

<!-- page 1 -->

137
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023.06'23
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 23.06.2023
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II  — LeGAL
(Separate paging is given to each Language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
Attention is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 14th July, 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 30th June 2023.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2023.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
137 B 82467- 353 (06/2023)
 Page Page
 Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... —
Miscellaneous Notices .... 138
wxl 2"338 - 2023  cqks ui 23 jeks isl=rdod - 2023.06'23
no. 2,338  FRIDAy ,  JuNE 23, 2023
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B.–   Part IV (A) of the Gazette No. 2,337 of 16.06.2023 was not published. 
 
Note.- Ayurveda (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of June 09, 2023

<!-- page 2 -->

138
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023.06'23
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka - 23.06.2023
miscellaneous notices
An AcT To IncoRPoRATe The ISIWARA 
DeveLoPmenT, SocIAL SeRvIceS AnD 
chARITy founDATIon
I, Madhura  Withanage, do hereby give notice under No. 53 
(1) of the Standing Order of the Parliament of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, that I propose to introduce to 
Parliament a Bill entiled "An Act, to Incorporate the Isiwara 
Development, Social Services and Charity Foundation".
The aim of the Bill is to Incorporate the said Foundation which 
has the following general objects :-
(a)  to conduct special services for needy school children 
and to offer assistance by way of scholarship, library 
facilities and other necessary support for students :
(b)  to organize employees of small and medium scale 
industries and enterprises and working towards their 
future advancement ; and
(c)  to design and implement social mobilization 
programmes for the development of children and 
women and implementing education and training 
programmes for this purpose.
etc.
 
Madhura Withanage,
 Member of Parliament.
06-387
An AcT To IncoRPoRATe The beLIeveRS 
eASTeRn chuRch
I, Premnath C. Dolawatte, do hereby give notice under 
Standing Order No. 53(1) of the Standing order of the 
Parliament of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, 
that I Propose to introduce to Parliament a Bill titled "An 
Act to incorporate the Believers Eastern Church" The aim of 
the Bill is to incorporate the said Foundation which has the 
following general objects :-
 01. to plant, establish and administrate parsonages of the 
Church for the Christian believers at all possible places ;
02. to provide facilities for the assembly and congregation of 
Christian believers, at all possible times and places ;
03. to open and build provide necessary facilities to the 
branches and centers in any part of the world in order to 
  carry out the objectives of the body corporate ;
 04 to establish, take – over and maintain Seminaries 
(thelogical schools), Colleges, Bible Schools, lecture 
Halls and Training Centers for imparting knowledge in 
Orthodox faith ;
   
 
PreManath C. dolaWatte,
 Colombo District Member
 of Parliament.
06-389
An AcT To IncoRPoRATe The buDDhA 
ShRAWAkA cARInG cenTRe
I, Madhura Withanage, do hereby give notice under No. 53 
(1) of the Standing Order of the Parliament of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, that I propose to introduce to 
Parliament a Bill entitled "An Act to incorporate the Buddha 
Shrawaka Caring Centre".
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Centre which 
has the following general objects :-
(a) to provide physical and mental well- being for 
monks, nuns and all other religious leaders 
suffering from cancer ;
(b) to maintain a separate place for cancer stricken 
monks and nuns ; and
(c) to provide accommodation facilities for 
diagnosed monks, nuns and all other religious 
leaders who come to Maharagama Apeksha 
(Cancer) Hospital for treatments.
etc.
 Madhura Withanage,
 Member of Parliament.
06-388
An AcT To IncoRPoRATe The SInhALe 
nATIonAL oRGAnIzATIon
I, Premanath C. Dolawatte, Attorney at Law, do hereby give 
notice under No. 53(1) of the standing order of the Parliament 
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, that I 
propose to introduce to Parliament a Bill entitled "An Act to 
incorporate the Sinhale National Organization."

<!-- page 3 -->

139
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023.06'23
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 23.06.2023
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Foundation which 
the following general objects :-
(a)   to establish a just society through  organizing, 
directing and practicing the Sil campaign meditation 
programmes, and Bodhi Poojas :
(b)   to take necessary action to eradicate any potential threats 
to the Buddhism and the nation ; and
(c)   to train local and foreign missionaries from among both 
laymen and clergymene
etc.
 PreMana th  C. dolaWa tte, 
 Attorney- at –Law
 Member of Parliament.
06-386
Printed   at   the   dePartMent   oF   goVernMent   Printing,   Sri lanKa.