

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
A
BILL
Presented by the Minister of Finance and Mass Media
on 18th of July, 2018.
Ordered by Parliament to be printed.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs.  23.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00
——————
——————
[Bill No. 258]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on June 14, 2018)
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
AMARADEVA AESTHETIC AND RESEARCH
CENTRE
to provide for the establishment of an aesthetic and research centre called
the “Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research Centre” in gratitude of the legendary
music icon in Sri Lanka, late Pandith Wannakuwattawaduge Don
Amaradeva; to  specify  its  objects  and powers and to provide for the
matters connected therewith or incidental thereto

<!-- page 2 -->

Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research Centre 1
5
10
15
20
L.D.—O. 46/2017
AN  ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN AESTHETIC AND
RESEARCH CENTRE CALLED THE “AMARADEVA AESTHETIC AND
RESEARCH CENTRE” IN GRATITUDE OF THE LEGENDARY MUSIC ICON IN
SRI L ANKA, LATE P ANDITH W ANNAKUWATTAWADUGE  D ON
AMARADEVA; TO SPECIFY ITS OBJECTS AND POWERS AND TO PROVIDE
FOR THE MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Amaradeva Aesthetic
and Research Centre Act, No.    of  2018.
2. (1) There shall be established an aesthetic and research
centre which shall be called the Amaradeva Aesthetic and
Research Centre (hereinafter referred to as “the Centre”) and
also known as Amaradeva Asapuwa equipped with a research
laboratory, an archive, a library and a museum.
(2) The Centre shall, by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual succession,
and a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.
3. The general objects for which the body corporate is
established are —
(a) to secure and archive the instruments of the Centre;
(b) to facilitate research activities of graduate and
postgraduate courses on aesthetic studies; and
(c) to conduct workshops, lectures and appreciation
programmes or any other function to promote the
style of music of late Pandith Wannakuwattawaduge
Don  Amaradeva  (hereinafter  referred  to  as
“W. D. Amaradeva”).
4. The objects of the Centre shall be carried out in such
manner so as not to create any conflict between the work of
the Centre and any work being carried out simultaneously
by any Ministry or Department of the Government or of any
Provincial Council or “Amaradeva Foundation”.
Short title.
Establishment
of
Amaradeva
Aesthetic and
Research
Centre.
General
objects of the
Centre.
Centre to
ensure no
conflict with
work of
Ministry or
Department
etc.
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research Centre
5
10
15
20
25
5. (1) The administration and management of the affairs
of the Centre shall be vested in a Board of Management
(hereinafter referred to as “the Board”).
(2) The Board shall consist of the following members:—
(a) Ex-officio members:–
(i) Secretary to the Ministry of Higher
Education or a representative of the
Ministry nominated by him;
(ii) the Secretary to the Ministry to which the
Centre for the time being assigned to or a
representative nominated by him;
(iii) the Director General of the Department of
National Archives or any person
nominated by him;
(iv) Ch airman of the National Library and
Documentation Services Board or any
person nominated by him;
(v) the Director of the Department of National
Museums or any person nominated by him;
and
(vi) the Director of the Department of Cultural
Affairs or any person nominated by him.
(b) Nominated or appointed members:–
(i) a member appointed by the President;
(ii) a member appointed by the Prime
Minister;
(iii) the family members of late W. D.
Amaradeva namely Wimala Amaradeva,
Ranjana Amaradeva, Priyanvada
Amaradeva and Subhanie Amaradeva;
Composition
of the Board
of
Management.
30

<!-- page 4 -->

Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research Centre 3
5
10
15
20
25
(iv) a member nominated by the “Amaradeva
Foundation” incorporated under the
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007;
(v) four members, who have experience and
shown capacity in the fields of aesthetics
and literature, appointed by the Minister
with the concurrence of the “Amaradeva
Foundation”.
(3) The President shall appoint one of the members of the
Board to be the Chairman of the Board.
(4) A vacancy occurring as a result of a member appointed
under subparagraphs (i) or (ii) of paragraph (b) of subsection
(2) vacating office by death, resignation or removal shall be
filled by the President or the Prime Minister as the case may
be. Any person so appointed to fill a vacancy shall hold
office for the unexpired period of the term of the predecessor.
(5) A vacancy occurring as a result of a member appointed
under subparagraph (iii) of paragraph ( b) of subsection (2)
vacating office by death, resignation or removal, the
successive member shall be appointed with the concurrence
of the majority of the remaining family members and such
appointee shall not necessarily be a family member of late
Pandith W. D. Amaradeva:
Provided that, where there are no family members
remaining on the Board, the successive member shall be
appointed with the concurrence of the majority of the
members of the Board.
(6) A vacancy occurring as a result of a member appointed
under subparagraphs (iv) of (v) of paragraph (b) of subsection
(2) vacating office by death, resignation, cessation of office
as a member or removal shall be filled by the Board by
nominating a member from the Amaradeva Foundation or
by appointing a member as the case may be for the unexpired
period of the term of office.
30

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research Centre
5
10
15
20
25
(7) The members of the Board may be paid such
remuneration out of the Fund of the Centre as may be
determined by the Minister.
6. (1) All members specified in paragraph ( b) of
subsection (2) of section 5 shall hold office for a period of
three years from the date of nomination or appointment:
Provided however, if any nominated or appointed member
vacates his office prior to the expiry of his term, his successor
shall, unless he vacates his office earlier, hold office for the
unexpired period of the term of office of his predecessor.
(2) Where the Chairman or any other member of the Board
becomes by reason of illness, infirmity or absence from Sri
Lanka, unable to perform the duties of his office for a period
of not less than one month, another person may having regard
to the provisions of section 5, be appointed to act in his
place.
7. (1) The Director General of the Centre shall be the
Chief Executive Officer of the Centre and shall be appointed
by the Board.
(2) The Director General shall be responsible for general
management and administration of officers and employees
of the Centre.
(3) The required number of officers and employees for
the management and administration of the Centre shall be
determined by the Board and they shall be paid such
remuneration determined by the Board in consultation with
the Minister to whom the subject of Finance is assigned.
8. (1) At the request of the Board any officer in the
public service may with the consent of that officer and the
Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the
subject of Public Administration, be temporarily appointed
to the staff of the Centre for such period as may be determined
by the Board, or with like consent be permanently appointed
to such staff.
Staff of the
Centre.
Terms of
office of
members of
the Board.
30
Appointment
of public
officers to
the staff of
the Centre.

<!-- page 6 -->

Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research Centre 5
(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Centre, the provisions of
subsection (2) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in respect of such officer.
(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Centre, the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in respect of such officer.
(4) Where the Board employs any person who has agreed
to serve the Government for a specified period, any period
of service to the Centre by that person shall be regarded as
service to the Government for the purpose of discharging
the obligations of such agreement.
(5) At the request of the Board, any member of the Local
Government Service or any officer or servant of a local
authority may, with the consent of such member, officer or
servant and the Local Government Service Commission or
the local authority, as the case may be, be temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Centre for such period as may be
determined by the Board or with like consent be permanently
appointed to such staff on such terms and conditions,
including those relating to pension or provident fund rights,
as may be agreed upon by the Centre and the Local
Government Service Commission or the Local Authority.
(6) At the request of the Board any officer or servant of a
public corporation may, with the consent of such officer or
servant and the governing body of such public corporation,
be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Centre for such
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research Centre
5
10
15
20
25
30
period as may be determined by the Board or with like
consent be permanently appointed to such staff on such terms
and condidtions, including those relating to pension or
provident fund rights, as may be agreed upon by the Board
and the governing body of such public corporation.
(7) Where any person is temporarily appointed to the
staff of the Centre under subsection (5) or (6) of this section,
such person shall be subject to the same disciplinary control
as any other member of such staff.
9. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Centre shall have the power—
(a) to accept and receive books, documents, files,
photographs, films, disks, audio and video tapes,
significant personal belongings and souvenirs of
the childhood and youth of late Pandith W. D.
Amaradeva, his creations and collections with
personal interest, official portraits, grants, awards
and gifts received by him to be deposited, and to
take all measures to secure, archive, administer and
exhibit those instruments;
(b) to purchase, lease and rent, lands or buildings which
may be required for the purposes of the Centre and
to transfer, sell or exchange of the same as may be
deemed expedient with a view to promoting the
objects of the Centre;
(c) to construct and renovate any building required for
the objects specified herein;
(d) to borrow or raise funds with or without securities
and to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or
kind:
Powers of the
Centre.

<!-- page 8 -->

Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research Centre 7
Provided that, the Board shall obtain the prior
written approval of the Department of External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the subject of Finance, in respect of all foreign
grants, gifts or donations made to the Centre;
(e) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell  and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments,
and to open, operate, maintain and close accounts
in any bank;
(f) to invest any funds that are not immediately required
for the purposes of the Centre, in such manner as
may be determined by the Centre;
(g) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and
administer any lawful trust or any real or personal
property of the Centre with a view to promoting the
objects of the Centre;
(h) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Centre and exercise
disciplinary control over them and to pay them such
salaries, allowances and gratuities as may be
determined by the Centre;
(i) to organize lectures, seminars and conferences with
a view to promoting the objectives of the Centre;
(j) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign
institutions having similar objects to that of the
Centre; and
(k) to do all other things as are necessary or expedient
for the proper and effective carrying out of the
objects of the Centre.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 9 -->

 Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research Centre8
10. (1) It shall be lawful for the Board, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules,  not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters:—
(a) admission, expulsion or resignation of members and
any other matter relating to membership;
(b) the qualifications or disqualifications to be a member
of the Board;
(c) the procedure to be followed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Centre and of the Board,
the quorum of such meeting and the exercise and
performance of the powers and duties of the Board;
(d) the appointment, powers, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and employees of the Centre;
and
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Centre.
(2) Any rule made by the Board may be amended, altered,
added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like manner, as
a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The rules made under subsection (1) shall be published
in the Gazette.
(4) The members of the Board shall at all times be subject
to the rules of the Centre.
11. (1) The Centre shall have its own Fund called and
known as “Amaradeva Asapuwa Development Fund”
(hereinafter referred to as the “Fund”) and all moneys
heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gifts,
Fund of  the
Centre.
5
10
15
20
Rules of the
Centre.
15

<!-- page 10 -->

Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research Centre 9
bequests, donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or
grants for and on account of the Centre shall be deposited to
the credit of the Fund in one or more banks as the Board
shall determine.
(2) All such sums of money as are required to defray the
expenses incurred by the Centre in the exercise, performance
and discharge of the powers, duties and functions of Centre
shall be paid out of the Fund.
12. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Centre shall
be able and capable in law to acquire and hold any property,
both movable and immovable, which may become vested in
it by virtue of any purchase, grant, lease, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise and all such property shall be held
by the Centre for the purposes of this Act and subject to the
rules made under section 10, with power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange, or otherwise dispose of the same.
13. The moneys and property of the Centre however
derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of its
objects as setforth herein and no portion thereof shall be paid
or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend, bouns,
profit or otherwise howsoever to the members of the Board.
14. (1) If upon the dissolution of the Centre there
remains, after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Board but shall be
given or transferred to some other institution or institutions
having objects similar to those of the Centre which is or are
by its or their rules, prohibited from distributing any income
or property among their members.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the appropriate
institution or institutions shall be determined by the members
of the Board immediately before the dissolution at a general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.
5
10
15
20
25
Centre may
hold property
movable and
immovable.
Application of
money and
property.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
30

<!-- page 11 -->

 Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research Centre10
15. (1) The Centre shall cause proper books of accounts
to be kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Centre.
(2) The financial year of the Centre shall be the calendar
year.
(3) The accounts of the Centre shall be audited annually
by the Auditor-General or a qualified auditor appointed by
the Auditor-General in terms of the provisions of Article 154
of the Constitution.
(4) For the purposes of this section “qualified auditor”
means:—
(a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate issued by the Council of such Institute to
practice as an accountant; or
(b) a firm of accountants, each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by Law, possesses a certificate
issued by the Council of such Institute to practice
as an accountant.
16. (1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of the Centre for each financial year and submit such report
together with the audited  statement of accounts to the
Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister to whom the Centre
for the time being is assigned before the expiration of six
months of the year succeeding the year to which such report
relates.
5
10
15
20
25
Audit of
Accounts.
Annual report.

<!-- page 12 -->

Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research Centre 11
5
10
15
20
25
(2) A separate account relating to the foreign and
local funds received by the Centre during the financial year
shall be attached to the report referred to in subsection (1).
17. (1) The seal of the Centre shall not be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such number
of persons as may be provided for in the rules made under
section 10 who shall sign their names to the instrument in
token of their presence and such signing shall be independent
of the signing of any person as a witness.
(2) The seal of the Centre shall be in the custody of
the persons as may be determined by the rules made under
section 10.
18. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in respect of
which regulations are authorized to be made.
(2)  Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.
(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall be
placed before the Parliament within three months from the
date of publication of such regulation  in the Gazette.
(4) A notification specifying the date on which the
Parliament has approved the regulation shall be published in
the Gazette. Any regulation which is not so approved shall
be deemed to be rescinded from the date of disapproval but
without prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.
(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the  Gazette.
Regulations.
Seal of the
Centre.

<!-- page 13 -->

 Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research Centre12
Savings of the
rights of the
Republic.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of
inconsistency.
19. Nothing  in this Act contained  shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic of any body politic or
corporate.
20. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:—
“Aesthetics” means fine arts including music, dancing,
art, sculpture and the literary arts including poems,
short stories, novels and any activity in the field
of cinema; and
“Minister” means the Minister of the Ministry to whom
the Centre is assigned to.
21. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Interpretation.
5
10

<!-- page 14 -->

Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research Centre 13
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING