

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Part II of March 24, 2017
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 24.03.2017)
FOREIGN EXCHANGE
A
BILL
to provide for the promotion and regulation of Foreign Exchange; to vest
the responsibility for promoting and regulating Foreign Exchange in the
Central Bank as the agent of the Government; to provide for the repeal of
the  Exchange  Control  Act  (Chapter  423);  and  to  provide  for  matters
 connected therewith or incidental thereto.
Ordered to be published by the Primeminister
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5.
Price : Rs. 21.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00

<!-- page 2 -->

Foreign Exchange 1
5
10
15
2—PL 005130—475  (03/2017)
20
L.D.O – 42/2003.
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE PROMOTION AND REGULATION OF FOREIGN
EXCHANGE; TO VEST THE RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROMOTING AND
REGULATING FOREIGN EXCHANGE IN THE CENTRAL BANK AS THE
AGENT OF THE GOVERNMENT; TO PROVIDE FOR THE REPEAL OF THE
EXCHANGE CONTROL ACT (CHAPTER 423); AND TO PROVIDE FOR
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Foreign Exchange Act,
No.      of 2017 and shall come into operation on such date as
the Minister may by Order published in the Gazette appoint
(hereinafter referred to as “the appointed date”).
2. (1) The Central Bank shall as the agent of the
Government, be responsible for implementing the provisions
of this Act in order to ensure proper promotion and regulation
of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka, in accordance with such
directions as may from time to time be issued in that behalf
under this section.
(2) The Minister assigned the subject of the Central Bank
may, from time to time, issue such directions as may be
necessary for the implementation of the provisions of this
Act and it shall be the duty of the Monetary Board to cause
these directions to be carried out.
3. Where under any provision of this Act any power,
duty or function is authorized or required to be exercised,
performed or discharged by the Central Bank, such power,
duty or function may be exercised, performed or discharged
by an officer or officers of the Central Bank designated for
that purpose by the Monetary Board, subject to the direction
and control of the Governor of the Central Bank.
Short title
and date of
operation.
Central Bank
to be
responsible
for
implementation
of the Act.
Discharge of
powers,
duties and
functions by
the Central
Bank.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Foreign Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
4. (1) ( a) Every licensed commercial bank shall,
immediately upon such bank being issued a license to carry
on banking business under the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988,
be authorized by the Central Bank to act, subject to the
provisions of section 9 as an authorized dealer to deal in
foreign exchange.
(b) Every licensed commercial bank which is on the
appointed date carrying on banking business, shall subject
to the provisions of section 9, be deemed to have been
authorized by the Central Bank, to act as an authorized dealer
to deal in foreign   exchange.
(c)   Every licensed specialised bank, immediately upon
such bank being issued a license to carry on banking business
under the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988, may be authorized
by the Central Bank subject to the provisions of section 9,
to deal in foreign exchange for the purposes specified in
such authorization.
(d)   Every licensed specialised bank which is on the
appointed date carrying on banking business, shall subject
to the provisions of section 9, be deemed to have been
authorized by the Central Bank to deal in foreign exchange
for the purposes specified in such authorization.
(2) ( a) The Central Bank may permit, subject to the
provisions of section 9, any person, class or classes of persons
(hereinafter referred to as a “restricted dealer”) not being an
authorized dealer, to deal in foreign exchange within Sri
Lanka for the purposes specified in the permit, subject to
such terms and conditions as may be imposed by the Central
Bank in that behalf.
 (b) Every dealer in foreign exchange including Money
changers or any other person other than licensed commercial
banks or specialised banks, which are on the appointed date
permitted to deal in foreign exchange, shall subject to the
provisions of section 9, be deemed to have been permitted
30
Authorized
dealers and
restricted
dealers.

<!-- page 4 -->

Foreign Exchange 3
5
10
15
20
by the Central Bank, to act as a restricted dealer to deal in
foreign exchange for the purposes specified in such
authorization.
(c)  The Central Bank may, subject to the provisions of
section 9, grant special permission, to any person not being
an authorized dealer or restricted dealer, to deal in foreign
exchange within Sri Lanka for specific purposes as may be
prescribed by the Minister by an Order published in the
Gazette subject to such terms and conditions as may be
specified in such Order.
(3) Save as otherwise provided in this Act, no person in
or resident in Sri Lanka shall deal in foreign exchange within
or outside Sri Lanka, by any act which involves the
conversion of Sri Lanka Rupees or assets within Sri Lanka
to foreign exchange, otherwise than through an authorized
dealer, or to the extent specified in the permit, through a
restricted dealer.
5. Any person in, or resident in, Sri Lanka who –
(a) holds foreign exchange in a bank account in Sri
Lanka or outside Sri Lanka; or
(b) owns any foreign asset,
not being foreign exchange or a foreign asset-
(i) derived from the conversion of Sri Lanka
currency or the disposal or conversion of any
financial or real assets within Sri Lanka; or
(ii) derived by an authorized dealer or a restricted
dealer from the business of dealing in foreign
exchange,
may utilize such foreign exchange or foreign asset for making
of any payment for, or in respect of, any current or capital
transaction of such person, within or outside Sri Lanka.  Any
25
30
Foreign
exchange or
foreign assets
held or
owned by a
person in or
resident in
Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Foreign Exchange
such payment made from foreign exchange held by such
person within Sri Lanka shall be made through an authorized
dealer, or to the extent specified in the permit, through a
restricted dealer.
6. (1) A person shall be entitled to deal in foreign
exchange for a current transaction of such person, through
an authorized dealer or to the extent specified in the permit,
through a restricted dealer.
(2)  An authorized dealer or a restricted dealer may deal
in foreign exchange for a current transaction as a principal
or as an intermediary.
(3)  Prior to dealing in foreign currency for a current
transaction under subsection (1), an authorized dealer or a
restricted dealer may request the person requiring foreign
exchange for such transaction to provide such information
or produce such documents or make such declaration as is
reasonably necessary, in order to satisfy himself that the
requirement is in relation to a current transaction and is in
conformity with any other laws regulating such transactions.
(4)  An authorized dealer or a restricted dealer shall refuse
to deal in foreign exchange for a current transaction under
subsection (1) where the request for information, documents
or declaration in terms of subsection (3) relating to such
transaction in not complied with or where the dealer is
satisfied that the requirement is not for a current transaction
or is not in conformity with any other laws regulating such
transactions.
(5) An authorized dealer or a restricted dealer refusing to
deal in foreign exchange for a current transaction under
subsection (4) shall communicate his decision in writing
together with the reasons therefor, if requested by the person
requiring the foreign exchange subject to the provisions of
section 9 of the Financial Transactions Reporting Act, No. 6
of 2006.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Current
transaction.

<!-- page 6 -->

Foreign Exchange 5
(6) Any person aggrieved by the decision of an authorized
dealer or a restricted dealer under subsection (4) may, within
fourteen days after such decision is communicated to such
person, appeal against such decision to the Central Bank
and the Central Bank shall, after giving such person and the
dealer a reasonable opportunity of being heard, affirm, vary
or revoke such decision.
7. (1) The Minister shall in consultation with the
Monetary Board and with the approval of the Cabinet of
Ministers, authorize by regulations, the class or classes of
capital transactions in foreign exchange for the purpose of
this section.
(2)  In making regulations  under subsection (1), the
Minister shall have regard to –
(a) transactions required to be regulated in conformity
with any treaty or agreement relating to international
financial transactions to which the Government of
Sri Lanka is a signatory;
(b) the impact of such authorization on the monetary
policy of Sri Lanka and its stabilization.
(3)  The regulations published under subsection (1) may
specify the limit up to which capital transactions may be
authorized and the terms and conditions subject to which
foreign exchange may be dealt with for the class or classes
of capital transactions, so authorized.
(4)  Without prejudice to the provisions of section 5, a
person shall be  entitled to deal in foreign exchange in respect
of a capital transaction of such person, through an authorized
dealer or to the extent specified in the permit, through a
restricted dealer, being capital transactions of a class or
classes, which is or are authorized by regulations made under
subsection (1).
5
10
15
20
25
30
Capital
transaction.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Foreign Exchange
(5)  An authorized dealer or a restricted dealer may deal
in foreign exchange for a capital transaction as a principle
or an intermediary, being a transaction authorized by
regulations made under subsection (1).
(6)  Prior  to dealing in foreign  exchange  in respect of  a
capital  transaction  under this section, the authorized dealer
or the restricted dealer   may request  the person  requiring
foreign  exchange for such transaction, to provide such
information or produce such documents or make such
declaration as is reasonably necessary in order to satisfy
himself  that the requirement is in relation to a capital
transaction authorized under subsection (1) and is in
conformity  with any other laws regulating such transactions.
(7)  An authorized dealer or a restricted dealer shall refuse
to deal in foreign exchange for a capital transaction under
this section where a request for information, documents or a
declaration is not complied with or where the dealer is
satisfied that the requirement is not for a capital transaction
authorized under subsection (1) or is not in conformity with
other laws regulating such transaction.
(8) An authorized dealer or a restricted dealer refusing to
deal in foreign exchange in respect of a capital transaction
under this section shall communicate his decision in writing
together with the reasons therefor,  if requested by the person
requiring the foreign exchange subject to the provisions of
section 9 of the Financial Transactions Reporting Act, No. 6
of 2006.
(9)  Any person aggrieved by the decision of an authorized
dealer or a restricted dealer under subsection (7), may within
fourteen days after such decision is communicated to such
person, appeal against such decision to the Central Bank,
and the Central Bank shall, after giving such person and the
dealer a reasonable opportunity of being heard, affirm, vary
or revoke such decision.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 8 -->

Foreign Exchange 7
(10)   An authorized dealer or a restricted dealer shall not
deal in foreign exchange for a capital transaction that is not
authorized by regulations made under subsection (1) unless
the Monetary Board taking into consideration the existence
of any exceptional circumstances has granted approval for
such capital transaction in accordance with such directions
as may be issued by the Minister in conformity with the
approvals made under subsection (1).
8. (1) A person in, or resident in, Sri Lanka shall –
(a) export from Sri Lanka or import into Sri Lanka,
any foreign currency or Sri Lanka currency;
(b) hold foreign exchange in his possession or in a
bank account in Sri Lanka;
only for such purpose, up to such limits and subject to such
terms and conditions, as may be prescribed by the Minister
by an Order published in the Gazette.
(2) A person in, or resident in, Sri Lanka shall acquire a
foreign asset from foreign exchange derived from the
conversion of Sri Lanka currency or the disposal or
conversion of an asset within Sri Lanka only for such purpose,
up to such limits and subject to such terms and conditions as
may be prescribed by the Minister by regulations made in
that behalf.
(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
provisions of any other written law, any Sri Lankan citizen
resident in Sri Lanka who remits to Sri Lanka any foreign
exchange not falling under items (i) and (ii) of paragraph (b)
of section  5 which have not been declared to the
Commissioner General of Inland Revenue or the Head of the
Department of Exchange Control before the appointed date
and which are not the property obtained by the commission
of an offence under the Prevention of Money Laundering
5
10
15
20
25
30
Regulation of
certain
transaction.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Foreign Exchange
Act, No. 5 of 2006, Convention on the Suppression of
Terrorist Financing Act, No. 25 of 2005 or the Bribery Act
(Chapter 26) shall be liable to pay only a remittance fee to
the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue at the rate as
may be prescribed by regulation and shall not be subject to
the payment of any other fee, tax,  surcharge or levy:
Provided that any such person who remits to Sri Lanka
foreign exchange held outside Sri Lanka and invests in a
development bond issued by the Government of Sri Lanka
shall not be liable to pay the remittance fee or any other tax,
surcharge or penalty.
(4) There shall be no restriction on the repatriation of
funds out of Sri Lanka remitted to Sri Lanka by any person
in terms of subsection (3) of section 8.
 9. (1) The Central Bank may from time to time, subject
to informing the Minister issue guidelines and directions to
authorized dealers and restricted dealers engaging in current
transactions.
(2)  The Central Bank may from time to time subject to
the approval of the Minister issue guidelines and directions
to authorized dealers and restricted dealers engaging in
capital transactions.
(3) The Central Bank may from time to time subject to
the approval of the Minister issue guidelines and directions
to authorized dealers and restricted dealers engaging in
transactions other than those referred to in subsections (1)
and (2) relating to foreign exchange.
(4) The Central Bank may from time to time subject to
the approval of the Minister issue guidelines and directions
to any person, class or classes of persons not being an
authorized dealer or restricted dealer, permitted to deal in
foreign exchange within Sri Lanka under paragraph ( c) of
subsection (2) of section 4.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Guidelines
and
directions.

<!-- page 10 -->

Foreign Exchange 9
(5)  The Central Bank may for statistical and monitoring
purposes, request an authorized dealer or a restricted dealer
to furnish within such time as may be specified in such request,
such information or returns in such form and manner in
relation to any foreign exchange transaction engaged in by
such dealer for a period of six years immediately prior to the
date on which such request is communicated to such dealer.
10. (1) The Central Bank may, at any time, cause an
investigation to be made, of foreign exchange transactions
or foreign assets of any authorized dealer or a restricted dealer
or any other person,  class or classes of persons as the case
may be, by a person authorized in writing by the Central
Bank (hereinafter referred to as an “authorized person”) in
that behalf.
(2)  It shall be the duty of every authorized dealer or a
restricted dealer or any other person, class or classes of
persons –
(a) to permit an authorized person entry into any
premises for the purposes of such investigation;
(b) to produce any books or other documents as may
be required for the investigation by such authorized
person;
(c) to permit such authorized person to retain for such
time as may be necessary such books and other
documents or to take copies or extracts;
(d) to appear before the authorized person when
required to do so by such authorized person;
(e) to furnish such statement or information in relation
to the investigation within such time and in such
manner as the said authorized person may require;
or
5
10
15
20
25
30
Investigations
of foreign
exchange
transactions
and foreign
assets.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Foreign Exchange
(f) not to furnish information under this section, which
to the knowledge of such dealer is false.
(3) Where an authorized person retains any book or
document under subsection (2) the authorized person shall
furnish to the person from whose custody or control such
book or document was taken for detention, a copy of such
book or document certified by such authorized person if a
request  for a copy is made by the person from whose custody
or control such book or document was taken or the
authorized person may without retaining original books or
documents require the person to furnish true copies of such
books or documents.
(4)  An authorized dealer or a restricted dealer or other
person required to appear before the authorized person may
be examined orally and any statement made by such dealer
or person shall be reduced to writing and shall be signed by
the dealer or person making the same.
(5)  For purposes of an investigation under subsection
(1), the Central Bank or the authorized person may if the
circumstances warrant, obtain the assistance of a police
officer to prevent a breach of the peace, in the exercise of
that right.
(6)  Where the Central Bank apprehends any  resistance
in the course of an investigation under subsection (1), the
Central Bank  may, on application made to a Magistrate’s
Court by a person authorized in that behalf by the Monetary
Board, within  whose  jurisdiction such investigation is made,
obtain an Order directing the authorized  dealer or the
restricted dealer  or other person as the case may be whose
foreign exchange  transaction  or foreign  assets is or are
being,  or is or  are to be, investigated, to appear before  the
authorized  person or to  produce such books  or documents
in the custody or control of such dealer or person as the
Central Bank or the authorized person  making the
investigation may reasonably require  for such investigation.
5
10
15
20
25
30
35

<!-- page 12 -->

Foreign Exchange 11
(7)  An application made under subsection (6) by a person
authorized in that behalf by the Monetary Board shall
contain—
(a) the name and address of the authorized dealer or a
restricted dealer or other person as the case may be
whose foreign exchange transaction is being or is
to be investigated;
(b) the address of the premises in which the
investigation is to be made;
(c) the name of the authorized person making the
investigation; and
(d) a prayer for an Order -
(i) for the appearance of such dealer or person
before the authorized person;
(ii) for the production of the books and
documents to the Central Bank or the
authorized person;
(iii) to refrain from obstructing the authorized
person making an investigation under this
section.
(8) (a) Court may, after considering an application made
under subsections (6) and (7) make an Order prayed for under
paragraph (d) of subsection (7) and   such dealer or person
shall comply with the Order forthwith.
(b) Any dealer or person who fails to comply with an
Order of the court under paragraph ( a) commits an offence
and shall, on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding
rupees five hundred thousand.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Foreign Exchange
(c) Where the offence under paragraph (b) is a continuing
offence, such dealer or person shall be liable to an additional
fine of rupees hundred thousand for each day during which
such offence continued.
11. (1) Where the Central Bank is satisfied that an
authorized dealer or restricted dealer—
(a) engages in any current transaction or capital
transaction contrary to the provisions of this Act;
(b) engages in any dealing in relation to foreign assets
contrary to the provisions of this Act;
(c) fails to comply with any guideline or direction
issued under subsections (1), (2) and (3) of section
9 or any requirement under subsection (4) of
section 9; or
(d) violates any provision of this Act or any regulation
or Order made thereunder,
the Central Bank may, with the approval of the Minister,
issue a notice directing any such authorized dealer or
restricted dealer to comply with the provisions of this Act or
any regulation, Order, guideline or direction issued or made
thereunder, within the period specified therein.
(2) Where any authorized dealer or restricted dealer fails
to act in accordance with the notice issued under subsection
(1), the Central Bank may, temporarily suspend the
authorization granted under subsection (1) of section 4 or
paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of section 4 to deal in foreign
exchange or the permit granted under paragraph ( a) of
subsection (2) of section 4.
(3) The Central Bank may, where there is a temporary
suspension under subsection (2), after an inquiry, giving the
authorized dealer or restricted dealer a reasonable opportunity
5
10
15
20
25
30
Failure to
comply with
the
provisions of
the Act or
any
Regulation,
Order,
Directive,
Guideline &
c. made or
issued
thereunder.

<!-- page 14 -->

Foreign Exchange 13
of being heard and with the approval of the Monetary Board,
revoke the authorization or permit granted under section 4.
(4) The Central Bank may in the circumstances referred
to in subsection (1), without proceeding to revoke the
authorization or the permit under subsection (3), after giving
a reasonable opportunity of being heard and where it deems
it appropriate taking into consideration all the relevant
circumstance—
(a) require an authorized dealer or restricted dealer who
engages in any dealing in relation to foreign assets
contrary to the provisions of this Act as referred to
in paragraph ( b) of subsection (1),  to pay to the
Central Bank within such time as may be specified
in such requirement an amount not exceeding the
amount or value of such foreign asset or any part
thereof in foreign exchange or Sri Lanka currency
together with such expenses incurred by the Central
Bank for the detection and investigation of such
transaction; or
(b) impose a limitation on such authorized dealer or
restricted dealer who has directly or indirectly been
a party to the unauthorized transaction, from dealing
in or engaging in current or capital transactions in
relation to foreign exchange as the case may be, for
a period not exceeding twelve months.
(5) Where any other person, class or classes of persons,
not being an authorized dealer or restricted dealer acts in
violation of the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d)
of subsection (1), the Central Bank may, with the approval
of the Minister, after giving such person a reasonable
opportunity of being heard, require such person in writing,
to pay as a penalty a sum not exceeding rupees one million,
within such time as may be specified in such requirement.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Foreign Exchange
(6) Where the Central Bank revokes an authorization or
permit under subsection (3) or requires to pay the sum
determined under paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (4) or
imposes a limitation under paragraph ( c) of subsection (4),
the Central Bank shall communicate its decision or
determination in writing together with its reasons therefor
to such authorized dealer or restricted dealer.
 (7) ( a) Where any authorized dealer or restricted
dealer –
(i) aggrieved by a revocation of the authorization or
permit under subsection (3);
(ii) aggrieved by the requirement to pay the sum
determined under paragraph ( a) of subsection (4);
or
(iii) aggrieved by any limitation imposed under
paragraph (b) subsection (4),
as the case may be, he may within thirty days after such
decision or determination is communicated to such dealer,
appeal against such revocation or determination to the Board
of Inquiry which shall determine such appeal in accordance
with the procedure set out in section 13.
(b) Where any person not being an authorized dealer or a
restricted dealer, aggrieved by a penalty imposed under
subsection (5), he may within thirty days after the
requirement to pay such penalty is communicated to such
person, appeal against such requirement to pay such penalty
to the Board of Inquiry which shall determine such appeal
in accordance with the procedure set out in section 13.
(8) Subject to any Order made on an appeal under
subsection (7), the revocation of the authorization or the
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 16 -->

Foreign Exchange 15
permit under subsection (3) or any limitation imposed under
subsection (4) shall, notwithstanding such appeal, take effect
from the date the Order of revocation or limitation is made
or imposed on the authorized dealer or restricted dealer, as
the case may be.
(9) Any sum paid to the Central Bank under paragraph
(a) of subsection (4) or any penalty paid under subsection
(5) shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund.
12. Every investigation and inquiry under section 11
shall be concluded within a period of six months from the
date of commencement of such investigation or inquiry
unless an extension of time is obtained with the approval of
the Minister.
13. (1) The Minister shall appoint a Board of Inquiry to
inquire into appeals made under paragraphs ( a) and ( b)
subsection (7) of section 11.
(2) The Board of Inquiry appointed under subsection (1)
shall consist of the following persons appointed by the
Minister:—
(a) a retired judge of the Supreme Court or of the Court
of Appeal who shall be the Chairman of the Board;
and
(b) two persons who are conversant in matters relating
to international financial or exchange transactions
and have had experience at a senior managerial
level in the public or private sector and are of good
standing and repute.
(3) Every member of the Board of Inquiry shall, unless he
vacates office earlier by death, resignation or removal, hold
office for a term of three years from the date of his appointment
and unless he has been removed from office, be eligible for
re-appointment.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Investigations
and Inquiries
to be
concluded
within six
months.
Board of
Inquiry.

<!-- page 17 -->

16 Foreign Exchange
(4) A member of the Board of Inquiry shall be remunerated
in such manner and at such rates as may be determined by
the Minister.
(5) A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
or continuing as a member of the Board of Inquiry if he–
(a) if he is, or becomes a member of Parliament or any
Provincial Council or any local authority; or
(b) if he is not, or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka ; or
(c) if he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any
other country found or declared to suffer from
unsoundness of mind ; or
(d) if he is serving or has served a sentence of
imprisonment imposed by any Court in Sri Lanka
or any other country; or
(e) if he has any financial or other interest as is likely
to affect prejudicially the discharge by him of his
functions as a member of the Board.
(6) (a) Any member of the Board of Inquiry may, at any
time resign from his office by letter to that effect addressed
to the Minister and such resignation shall take effect upon
such resignation being accepted by the Minister in writing.
(b) The Minister may with the reasons assigned therefor
remove any appointed member.
(c) In the event of any post of an appointed member of the
Board of Inquiry being vacated by death, resignation,
removal or the operation of the provisions of subsection (5),
the Minister may appoint another person, having regard to
the provisions of subsections (2) and (3) to hold such office
for the unexpired period of term of office of the member
whom he succeeds.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 18 -->

Foreign Exchange 17
(d) If any appointed member of the Board of Inquiry is
temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office during
any period due to ill-health or absence from Sri Lanka or for
any other cause, the Minister may appoint some other person
to act in his place for unexpired period.
(7) The Board of Inquiry shall within thirty days of the
receipt of the appeal make its determination in respect of
such matter.
(8) Every Appellant shall appear before the Board of
Inquiry in person or with an authorized representative.
(9) After the hearing of an appeal, the Board of Inquiry
may confirm, vary or reverse the decision appealed against.
(10) The decision of the Board of Inquiry and the reasons
therefor shall be in writing, be notified to the appellant and
the Board of Inquiry shall forward a report thereon to the
Minister.
14. Where any person who is required to pay any sum
of money or penalty to the Central Bank under section 11 or
13 is a body corporate or unincorporated, every director,
member or partner of such body shall also be personally
liable jointly and severally to pay such amount or value and
expenses:
Provided that such director, member or partner shall not
be liable to pay such amount or value if such person proves
that the act or omission incurring such liability was done or
omitted to have been done without the knowledge of such
person or that such person exercised due diligence to prevent
such act or omission.
15. (1) (a) Where any person fails to pay any sum of
money or penalty to the Central Bank under sections 11 or
13, the Governor of the Central Bank shall cause a certificate
to be issued under his hand, setting out the sum of money
required to be paid by such person.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Liability of
bodies
corporate or
unincorporated.
Recovery of
sums due to
Government.

<!-- page 19 -->

18 Foreign Exchange
(b) The sum of money so certified shall be deemed to be a
debt due from such person to the Government and may be
recovered by the Central Bank by issuing a certificate to the
District Court having jurisdiction in the district where the
person resides.
(c) Such certificate shall contain the particulars of the
sum due and the name and place of residence as given in the
authorization issued under section 4.
(d) Court shall thereupon direct a writ of execution to be
issued to the Fiscal authorizing and requiring him to seize
and sell all the property movable and immovable of the
defaulting person or such part thereof as the Court may deem
necessary for recovery of the amount so due and the
provisions of sections 226 to 297 of the Civil Procedure
Code (Chapter 101) shall, mutatis mutandis apply to and in
relation to such seizure and sale.
(2) (a) Where the Central Bank is of the opinion that it is
impracticable or inexpedient to recover the sum required to
be paid under subsection (1) or where the full amount has
not been recovered by the seizure and sale, then, the Central
Bank may issue a certificate containing particulars of the
sum so due and the name of the person and place of residence
as given in the authorization issued under section 4 to the
Magistrate having jurisdiction.
(b) The Magistrate shall thereupon summon such person
before him to show cause why further proceedings for the
recovery of sum due under this Act should not been taken
against him and in default of sufficient cause being shown,
such sum shall be deemed to be a fine imposed by a sentence
of the Magistrate on such person and the provisions of section
291 (except paragraphs ( a), ( d) and (i) of subsection (1)
thereof of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of
1979), relating to the default of payment of a fine imposed
for such an offence shall thereupon apply and Magistrate
may make any direction, by the provisions of that subsection,
he could have made at the time of imposing such sentence.
5
10
15
20
25
30
35

<!-- page 20 -->

Foreign Exchange 19
(3) (a) The correctness of any statement in a certificate
issued by the Central Bank for the purpose of this section
shall not be called in question or examined by the court in
any proceedings under this section and accordingly nothing
in this section shall authorize the court to consider or decide
the correctness of any statement in such certificate and the
Central Bank’s certificate shall be sufficient evidence that
the amount due under this Act from the defaulting person
has been duly calculated and that such amount is in default.
 (b) The certificate shall be signed by the Governor of the
Central Bank and shall be admissible in evidence in such
action, without proof of signature and shall be prima facie
proof of the matters stated therein.
(4) Any sum recovered in an action under this section
shall be paid into the Consolidated Fund.
16. Any permission, consent or authority granted under
this Act may be –
(a) general or special;
(b) absolute or conditional;
(c) limited so as to expire on a specified date, unless
renewed; and
(d) varied or revoked.
17. In any inquiry under section 13, the burden of
proving that any authorized dealer, restricted dealer or any
other person, class or classes of persons not being an
authorized dealer or restricted dealer had obtained the
permission of the Central Bank for doing the act or making
the omission which constitutes the violation of the provisions
of the Act or any regulation, Order, guideline or direction
issued or made thereunder shall be on such dealer, person or
class or classes of persons.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Provisions
relating to
permission,
consent or
authority.
Burden of
proof of
permission.

<!-- page 21 -->

20 Foreign Exchange
18. In any inquiry under section 13 in relation to foreign
currency, it shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved,
that the currency in respect of which the dealing in foreign
exchange in violation of the provisions of the Act or any
regulation, Order, guideline or direction issued or made
thereunder is alleged to have been committed is genuine.
19. In any Inquiry under section 13 or any prosecution
under section 10, any of the following documents may be
produced before the Board of Inquiry or Court and given in
evidence against any authorised dealer, restricted dealer or
any other person, class or classes of persons not being an
authorized dealer or restricted dealer and shall be prima facie
evidence of the matters, transactions and accounts therein
contained –
(a) a certified copy of a banker’s book or an extract
thereof obtained from the manager or principal
accountant of the bank;
(b) a certified copy of any book or other record required
by law to be maintained by a company or a certified
copy of any extract thereof, obtained from a director
or secretary of the company; and
(c) a certified copy of any document or of an extract
thereof in the proper custody of an officer of a
foreign Government, and obtained from such officer.
20. No person shall be liable in any suit or other legal
proceedings for any act done, or purporting to be done, in
good faith in pursuance of the powers conferred by or under
this Act, or for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
this Act.
21. (1) Except in the performance of his duties under
this Act, every officer or servant of the Department of
Exchange Control of the Central Bank shall preserve, and
aid in preserving, secrecy with regard to all matters that may
5
10
15
20
25
30
Presumption
relating to
foreign
currency.
Admissibility
of certain
documents.
Indemnity
for acts done
in good faith.
Duty of
officers and
servants to
maintain
secrecy.

<!-- page 22 -->

Foreign Exchange 21
come to his knowledge in the performance of his duties under
this Act, and any such officer or servant who communicates
any such matter to any person other than –
(a) the person, class or classes of persons to whom that
matter relates or an authorized representative of such
person, class or classes of persons;
(b) the Monetary Board;
(c) the Governor of the Central Bank or an officer of
the Department of Exchange Control of the Central
Bank authorized by the Governor to obtain
information regarding that matter;
(d) the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Finance;
(e) a public officer authorized by the Minister to obtain
information regarding that matter; or
(f) a person to whom it is necessary to communicate
that matter for the purpose of securing compliance
with, or detecting evasion of, any provision of this
Act, or any other written Law,
or suffers or permits any unauthorized person to have access
to any book, papers or records of the aforesaid Department
or in the possession or custody, or under the control, of the
head of that Department, commits an offence.
(2)   No officer or servant of the Department of Exchange
Control shall, in any legal proceedings to which the
Monetary Board is not a party be compellable except by
Order of the Court to produce any book or document or to
divulge or communicate any matter coming under his notice
in the performance of his duties under this Act.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 23 -->

22 Foreign Exchange
22. (1) Where the Monetary Board advises the Minister
that in the opinion  of the Board, remittances of foreign
exchange into or out of Sri Lanka constitute a potential
threat to the financial stability of Sri Lanka, the Minister
may, with the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers and
notwithstanding the provisions of sections 5, 6, 7 and 8 of
this Act, by Order published in the Gazette, take such steps
as may be necessary to restrict or regulate remittances of
foreign exchange into or out of Sri Lanka, for such period
not exceeding six months from the date of such Order.
(2) An Order under subsection (1) shall be communicated
forthwith to Parliament and unless Parliament determines
otherwise, shall be valid for the period specified in such
Order.
(3) The Minister may with the approval of Parliament, by
Order published in the Gazette, extend from time to time,
the period of validity of an Order made under subsection (1)
however that the period of such extensions shall not in the
aggregate exceed twelve months.
23. (1) Any expenses incurred by the Central Bank in
any suit or prosecution   brought by or against it before any
court, shall be paid out of the Consolidated Fund and any
costs paid to or recovered by the Central Bank in any such
suit or prosecution shall be credited to the Consolidated
Fund.
(2)  Expenses incurred by  the employees of the Central
Bank   in any suit or prosecution brought against such person
before any court or tribunal in respect of any act which is
done or  purported to be done by such person under this Act
or any other written law  or on the direction of Central Bank
shall, if that act was done in good faith, be paid out of the
Consolidated Fund, unless such expenses are recoverable
by such person in any suit or proceedings.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Preservation
of financial
stability.
Expenses in
suit or
prosecution
to be paid
out of the
Consolidated
Fund.

<!-- page 24 -->

Foreign Exchange 23
5
10
15
20
25
30
24. (1) It shall be an  implied condition in any contract,
entered into, by virtue of the provisions of this Act, the
permission or consent of the Central Bank is at the time of
the contract required for the performance of any term thereof,
that terms should not be performed except  in so far as the
permission or consent is given or permission or consent is
not required:
Provided that the preceding provisions of this subsection
shall not apply to that term in so far as the application of
those provisions to that term is inconsistent with the intention
of the parties to that contract, whether by reason of their
having contemplated the performance of that term despite
the provisions of this Act, or for any other reason.
(2)  Notwithstanding anything in the Bills of Exchange
Ordinance (Chapter 82), neither the provisions of this Act,
nor any condition, whether express or implied having regard
to those provisions, that any payment shall not be made
without the permission of the Central Bank under this Act,
shall be deemed to prevent any instrument being a bill of
exchange or promissory note under the said Ordinance.
25. Where the provisions of any other written law impose
an obligation in respect of the doing of any act and the
permission or consent of the Central Bank is, by virtue of
that Act is required for the discharge of the obligation, it
shall be an implied condition of the obligation that it shall
not be discharged except in so far as the permission or consent
is given or is not required.
26. The Schedule to this Act may from time to time in
the interest of the national economy be amended, altered or
varied by Resolution of Parliament.
27. Where any regulation or Order made under this Act
is required to be published in the Gazette, it shall  be published
once in three daily newspapers in the Sinhala, Tamil and
English languages.
Contracts.
Obligations
under other
written laws.
Amendment
of Schedules
by
Resolution of
Parliament.
Publication
of Orders in
daily
newspapers.

<!-- page 25 -->

24 Foreign Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
30
28. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
all matters which are required by this Act to be prescribed or
in respect of which regulations are required or authorized to
be made under this Act.
(2) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of publication or on such later date as may be
specified therein.
(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall,
within six months from the date of its publication in the
Gazette be placed before Parliament for approval. Every
regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to be
rescinded as from the date of disapproval, but without
prejudice to anything previously done there under.
(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
29. (1) The Exchange Control Act (Chapter 423) is
hereby repealed.
(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the aforesaid Act-
(a) all suits, actions and proceedings instituted
under the repealed Act and pending on the day
immediately prior to the appointed date, shall,
with effect from the appointed date, be deemed
to be such actions and proceedings instituted
under this Act; and
(b) all investigations and inquiries instituted
under the repealed Act and pending on the day
immediately prior to the appointed date, shall,
with effect from the appointed date, be deemed
to be investigations and inquiries instituted
under this Act and shall be concluded within a
period of six months from the appointed date.
Regulations.
Repeal and
Savings.

<!-- page 26 -->

Foreign Exchange 25
5
10
15
20
25
30. (1) For the purpose of this Act -
(a) “currency” includes coins, currency
notes, postal orders, money orders,
cheques, drafts, travelers’ cheques, letters
of credit, bills of exchange, promissory
notes, other electronic fund transfer cards
and digital currency;
(b) “securities” means shares, stock, bonds,
debentures, units under a unit trust
scheme or of any mutual fund.
(2) The Central Bank may, by Notification published in
the Gazette , specify any other instrument in relation to
currency or securities which is not specified in this section.
(3) For the purpose of sections 4, 5 and 8 “a person resident
in Sri Lanka” means such person as is determined by the
Minister by Order published in the Gazette.
31. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
32. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires–
  “asset” means any movable or immovable property
of any class or description whatsoever;
“authorized dealer” means a bank licensed under
the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988 authorized
under section 4 to act as authorized dealer;
“capital transaction” means a transaction which is
not a current transaction within the meaning of
this Act;
Currency,
securities etc.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 27 -->

26 Foreign Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
30
“Central Bank” means the Central Bank of Sri Lanka
established by section 5 of the Monetary Law
Act (Chapter 420);
“current transaction” means any international
transaction necessitating a transfer of foreign
exchange into or from Sri Lanka, and referred to
in paragraph (d) of Article XXX of the Articles
of the International Monetary Fund set out in
the Schedule to this Act;
“Commissioner General of Inland Revenue” means
the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue
within the meaning of Inland Revenue Act, No.
10 of 2006;
“foreign asset” means any movable or immovable
property outside Sri Lanka of any class or
description whatsoever and without prejudice
to the generality of the preceding provisions of
this definition, includes foreign exchange,
foreign currency, foreign securities and foreign
bank accounts;
“foreign currency” means any currency other than
Sri Lankan currency;
“Foreign Currency Account” means a foreign
currency account in a licensed bank which is
authorized to deal in foreign exchange;
“foreign exchange” means foreign currency and
includes –
(a) deposits, credits and balances payable in
foreign currency;
(b) drafts, travelers’ cheques, letters of credit
and bills of exchange drawn in Sri Lanka
and payable outside Sri Lanka in foreign
currency;

<!-- page 28 -->

Foreign Exchange 27
5
10
15
20
25
(c) drafts, travelers’ cheques, letters of credit
and bills of exchange drawn outside Sri
Lanka but payable in Sri Lankan
currency;
(d) any document or instrument of a type
customarily employed for international
transfers of funds.
“foreign exchange dealings” includes accepting,
buying, selling, borrowing and lending of
foreign exchange and exchange to any other
foreign currency;
“foreign security” means a security denominated or
expressed in foreign currency and issued outside
Sri Lanka;
“licensed bank” means a licensed commercial bank
or a licensed specialized bank;
“licensed commercial bank” means a bank licensed
under subsection (4) of section 2 of the Banking
Act, No. 30 of 1988;
“licensed specialized bank” means a bank licensed
under subsection (3) of section 76 A of the
Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988;
“Monetary Board” means the Monetary Board of
the Central Bank of Sri Lanka;
“permit” means a permit granted to a restricted
dealer under paragraph ( a) of subsection (2) of
section 4;
“person” means any natural or legal person including
partnerships;

<!-- page 29 -->

28 Foreign Exchange
“person resident outside Sri Lanka” means a person
who is not a resident in Sri Lanka;
 “Sri Lankan currency” means currency which is
expressed or drawn in Sri Lanka rupees.
SCHEDULE
(section 5, 6 and 32)
      INTERNATIONAL  MONETARY FUND
Articles on Agreement
ARTICLE XXX
EXPLANATION OF TERMS
(d) Payments for current transactions means payments which are
not for the purpose of transferring capital assets, and includes, without
limitation—
(1) all payments due in connection with foreign trade, other
current business, including services, and normal short term
banking and credit facilities;
(2) payments due as interest on loans and as net income from
other investments;
(3) payments of moderate amount for amortization of loans or
for depreciation of direct investments; and
(4) moderate remittances for family living expenses.
The Fund may, after consultation with the members concerned,
determine whether certain specific transactions are to be considered
current transactions or capital transactions.

<!-- page 30 -->

Foreign Exchange 29
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .