

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
————————
Presented by the Hon. Akila Ellawala, M. P.
for Ratnapura District on 09th of February, 2024
(Published in the Gazette on November 03, 2023)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
Price : Rs. 24.00 Postage : Rs. 150.00
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
[Bill No. 240]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
BILL
A
MOHAN ELLAWALA SOCIAL
DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Mohan Ellawala Social Development Foundation

<!-- page 2 -->

1Mohan Ellawala Social Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
Preamble
Short title
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE MOHAN ELLAWALA SOCIAL
DEVELOPMENT  FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “Mohan
Ellawala Social Development Foundation” has heretofore
been formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually
carrying out its objects and transacting all matters connected
with the said Foundation according to the rules agreed to by
its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Mohan Ellawala Social
Development Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2024.
2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of  the
Mohan Ellawala Social Development Foundation (hereinafter
referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted
as members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate with  perpetual succession, under the name and
style of  the “ Mohan Ellawala Social Development
Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the “ body corporate”)
and by that name may sue and be sued, in all Courts with full
power and  authority to have and  use a common seal and to alter
the same at its pleasure.
(2) The body Corporate shall be deemed to be a Voluntary
Social Service Organization within the meaning, and for the
purpose of the Voluntary Social Service Organizations
Incorporation
of Mohan
Ellawala
Social
Development
Foundation

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Mohan Ellawala Social Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(Registration of the Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and
the provisions of the Act shall apply to and in relation to the
management of the affairs of the body corporate.
3. The body corporate shall operates exclusively as a
not-for profit Organization and it is solely for the society
and its members
4. (1) The general objects for which the body corporate
is constituted are hereby declared to be:–
(a) to plan, gather financial resources, implement and
carryout programmes with a view to cleave religious
and cultural progress that would enhance peace,
cordiality and understanding among Sinhala, Tamil,
Muslim nationalities and Buddhist, Christian,
Hindu and Islam religious groups;
(b) to plan, raise fund and conduct programmes that
contribute to conserve the environment for
future generations preventing the degeneration of
Sri Lanka;
(c) to plan, implement and carryout programmes
relevant to Educational Development, Healthcare
and Nutrition of children of low-income families in
Sri Lanka;
(d) to donate houses and grant support to construct the
houses for the low-income families;
(e) to provide material, financial and professional
assistance for disabled children to improve their
standard of life;
(f) to sponsor and provide subsidies for the affected
people at the emergency disaster situations;
Body
corporate
operates as a
not-profit
Organization
The General
objects of the
body
corporate

<!-- page 4 -->

3Mohan Ellawala Social Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(g) to conduct carrrier guidance programmes and
sponsor in sport activities for young men and
women;
(h) to implement programmes targeting to create
harmony among all religions;
(i) to contribute environmental management and
minimize the environmental destruction by
establishing forestry projects;
(j) to protect ancient places of heritage available in
the area; and to sponsor and contributing to
programmes aiming at conservation of those for
the future generation;
(k) to intervene directly and indirectly to enhance the
standard of life of different races engaged in
plantation industry;
(l) to improve cultivation of farmers and to provide
latest knowledge in order to uplift the social welfare
and life standard of farmers and sponsoring for the
welfare affairs of their childern;
(m) to intervene directly in guidance connected with
inernationals by way of improving the traditional
attitudes of people, indigenous medicine, art,
cultural affairs and handicrafts;
(n) to provide legal assistance and legal aid at the
common and communal issues depending on its
equity;
(o) to provide necessary facilities to the people engaged
for livelihood by way of town and urban
decorations;
(p) to sponsor for national festivals for which it is felt
necessary to be given a contribution;

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Mohan Ellawala Social Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
(q) to develop peoples’ livelihood and counselling in
marketing guidance; and
(r) to implement appropritately the decisions regarding
the current issues with the consent of the
foundation.
(2) In the implementation of the objects specified in
subsection (1) the body corporate  shall ensure that such
implementation shall be carried out without any
discrimination based on race, religion, language, caste, sex,
political opinion, place of birth  or any of such grounds.
5. The objects of the body corporate shall be carried
out in such manner so as not to create any conflict between
the work of the 
body corporate and any work being carried
out simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of the
Government or of any Provincial Council.
6. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act  body
corporate shall be carried out by a Board of Management
(hereinafter referred to as “the Board”) consisting of such
number of office bearers as may be specified by the rules
made under section 7.
(2) (a) The Board of the Foundation that holds office on
the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act, shall function as the Board of the body corporate
until the first Board is appointed or elected  in the manner
provided for by rules made under section 7.
(b)  The first Board of the body corporate shall be appointed
or elected within one year of the date of commencement of
this Act.
5
10
15
20
25
Body
corporate to
ensure no
conflict with
work of
Ministry or
Department
of
Government
or Province
Management
of the affairs
of the body
corporate

<!-- page 6 -->

5Mohan Ellawala Social Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
5
(3) ( a) Every office bearer of the Board including the
patrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for a period
of three years and any such office bearer, patron or advisor
shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election after lapse
of the said period of three years.
(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of the body
corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.
(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph ( b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term of
office of the member whom he succeeds.
7. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessary
or desirable for the promotion or any one of them, including
the power:–
(a) to purchase, acquire rent, construct, renovate and
otherwise obtain lands or buildings which may be
required for the purpose of the body corporate and
to deal with or dispose of the same as may be deemed
expedient with a view to promoting the objects of
the body corporate;
(b) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations
in cash or kind or without security:
Provided that, the Board shall obtain the prior
written approval of the Department of External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the subject of Finance, in respect of all foreign
grants, gifts or donations made to the body
Corporate;
10
15
20
25
Powers of the
body
corporate
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Mohan Ellawala Social Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate and close accouts in any banks;
(d) to invest any funds that are not immediately
required for the purposes of the body corporate in
such manner as the Board may determine;
(e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and
administer any lawful trust or any real or personal
property with a view to promoting the objects of
the body corporate;
(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the body corporte and
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the body corporate; and
(g) to do all other things as are necessary or expedient
for the proper and effective carrying out the objects
of the body corporate.
8.  (1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from time
to time, at any general meeting and by the votes not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters:—
(a) the classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and fees payable by the members;
(b) the election of the office bearers for the Board,
vacation or removal from of office bearers and the
powers, duties, and functions of the office bearers;
5
10
15
20
25
30
Rules of the
body
corporatate

<!-- page 8 -->

7Mohan Ellawala Social Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
(c) the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,
functions and duties of various officers, agents and
servants of the body corporate;
(d) the procedure to be followed for the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board, or any
s
ub-committee thereof, notices and agenda of  such
meetings, the quorum and the conduct of business
thereat;
(e) the qualifications and disqualifications to be a
members of the Board and the body corporate;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the body corporate; and
(g) the management of the affairs of the body corporate
and the accomplishment of its objects and
dissolution of the body corporate.
(2) The rules made by the body corporate may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner, as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the body corporate shall at all times
be subject to the rules of the body corporate.
(4) The rules of the body corporate made under this section
shall be published in the Government Gazette.
9.  The Board shall maintain a register of members in
which name, address and other essential details of the
members be inscribed.
10. (1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.
5
10
15
20
25
Register of
members
Fund of the
body
corporate

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Mohan Ellawala Social Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,
donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants for
and on account of the body corporate shall be deposited in
one or more banks approved by the Board to the credit of the
body corporate.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
body corporate in the exercise, performance and discharge
of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
11. (1) The financial year of the body corporate shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the body corporate.
(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited
by the  Auditor-General or by a qualified auditor appointed
by the Auditor-General or by General in terms of Article 154
of the Constitution.
(4) For the purposes of this section “a qualified auditor”
means–
(a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or  any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practise as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by law possesses a certificate
to practise as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Accounts and
Auditing

<!-- page 10 -->

9Mohan Ellawala Social Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
12. (1) The Board  shall prepare a report of the activities
of the body corporate for each financial year and submit
such report together with the audited statement of accounts
to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the
subject of Social Services and to the Registrar of Voluntary
Social Services Organizations appointed under the
Voluntary Social Services Organization (Registration and
Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of
six months of the year succeeding the year to which such
report relates.
(2) A separate accounts relating to the foreign and local
moneys received by the body corporate during the the
financial year shall be attached to the report referred to in
subsection (1).
13. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the 
body corporate hereby constituted, and
all debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the body
corporate for the purposes of this Act.
14. Subject to the provisions of this Act,the body
corporate  shall be able and capable in law, to take and hold
any property, movable or immovable, which may become
vested in it by virtue of any purchases, grant, gift,
testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such property
shall be held by the body corporate for the purpose of this
Act and subject to the rules of the body corporate made under
section 7, with power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or
otherwise dispose of the same.
15. The  moneys and property of the body corporate
however derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of the objects of the body corporate and no
portion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or
indirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit to the members
of the body corporate.
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Annual
Report
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation
Application
of moneys
and property
Body
corporate
may hold
property
movable and
immoveble

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Mohan Ellawala Social Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
16. (1) The Seal of the  body corporate shall not be
affixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence
of two members of the Board who shall sign their names to
the instrument in token of their presence and such signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
(2) The Seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody
of an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by such
Board.
17. (1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporate
there remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and
liabilities, any property whatsoever, such property shall not
be distributed among the members of the body corporate,
but shall be given or transferred to any other institution
having objects similar to those of the body corporate, and
which is by the rules thereof,  prohibited from distributing
any income or property among its members.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the body
corporate immediately before the dissolution at a general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.
18. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
body corporate.
19. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Property
remaining on
dissolution
Seal of the
body
corporate
5
10
15
20
25
Savings of
the rights of
the Republic
and others
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency

<!-- page 12 -->

11Mohan Ellawala Social Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING