

<!-- page 1 -->

CHITHTHA ADV ANCED PSYCHOLOGICAL 
STUDIES OPEN INSTITUTE OF SRI LANKA 
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Chiththa Advanced Psychological Studies 
Open Institute of Sri Lanka
————————
Presented by Hon. Hesha Withanage Ankumbura Arachchi,
M.P. for Rathnapura District on 06th of June, 2025
(Published in the Gazette on May 29, 2025)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
 ————————
[Bill No. 18]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 60.00 Postage : Rs. 150.00
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

Chiththa Advanced Psychological Studies Open 
Institute of  Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
1
5
15
20
25
2 - PL 15308 -  230 (06/2025)
10
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE CHITHTHA ADVANCED 
PSYCHOLOGICAL STUDIES OPEN INSTITUTE OF SRI LANKA
 
WHEREAS an Institute called and known as the          
“Chiththa Advanced psychological Studies Open Institute of 
Sri Lanka” has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for the 
purpose of effectually carrying out its objects and transacting 
all matters connected with the said Institute according to the 
rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Institute has heretofore 
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects 
and matters for which it was established, and has applied 
to be incorporated and it will be expedient to grant the said  
application:
BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as  follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Chiththa Advanced 
Psychological Studies Open Institute of Sri Lanka 
(Incorporation) Act, No.   of 2025.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this 
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the 
Chiththa Advanced Psychological Studies Open Institute 
of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”) or 
shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation 
hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate with perpetual 
succession, under the name and style of the “Chiththa 
Advanced Psychological Studies Open Institute of Sri 
Lanka” (hereinafter referred to as the “body corporate”) and 
by that name may sue and be sued in all Courts with full 
power and authority to have and use a common seal and to 
alter the same at its pleasure.
Short title
Preamble
Incorporation 
of the Chiththa
Advanced
Psychological 
Studies Open 
Institute   of 
Sri Lanka

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Chiththa Advanced Psychological Studies Open 
Institute of  Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
5
15
20
25
10
3. (1) The general objects for which the Corporation is 
constituted are hereby declared to be—
 ( a) to established proper organization for the 
psychological consultants;
 ( b) to promote and develop psychological studies 
and to formulate standards of the psychological 
consultant and issuing the same ;
 ( c) to produce psychological consultants in the country 
aiming at providing necessary psychological 
treatment among the people of the country who are 
ailing with psychological disorders and to uplife 
the psychological health;
 ( d) to offer psychological studies in the main of ﬁ cial 
languages of the country so as to produce a society 
of efﬁ cient psychologists who could provide their 
consultancy services in mother languages within 
Sri Lanka;
 ( e) to offer education and proper training to the students 
of the Institution aiming at producing quali ﬁ ed 
psychological consultants and to grant certi ﬁ cate 
through the Chiththa Advanced Psychological 
Studies Open Institute of Sri Lanka and monitor 
them;
 ( f) to offer Chiththa Certi ﬁ ed Psychological 
Counsellor of Sri Lanka (CCPCSL) through the 
Council of Chiththa Psychological Counsellors’ to 
those students who had obtained certiﬁ cate having 
completed the proper studies and the ﬁ nal medical 
trainings;
The general 
objects of 
the body 
corporate

<!-- page 4 -->

Chiththa Advanced Psychological Studies Open 
Institute of  Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
3
5
15
20
25
30
10
 ( g) to act vigilantly about the code of discipline of the 
licensed members and to take disciplinary action 
against, or cancel the membership of the licensed 
holder those who violate the code of discipline;
 ( h) to offer psychological study courses recognized 
by the local and foreign countries to the level of 
certiﬁ cate level course in the ﬁ eld of higher national 
diploma studies not less than the level of bachelor 
degree;
 ( i) to conduct seminars and workshop twice a year to 
those licensed members in order to improve the 
knowledge;
 ( j) to organize pathways of gaining post graduations 
eligibility to the members of their professional 
development of bachelor/master degree holders in 
the ﬁ eld of psychological studies;
 ( k) to run both print and electronic media library of 
books, news papers and magazines etc. to further 
studies of students following psychological studies, 
licensed members and others; and to motivate the 
students and members to publish articles in the ﬁ eld 
of subject matter in both medias;
 ( l) to charge a reasonable monthly fee for the 
registration of students from certi ﬁ cate course to 
higher national diploma and an annual fee from 
the licensed membership holders to continue their 
membership and to charge a fee for any other 
services obtained from the institute;
 ( m) to award scholarship and trophies to those students 
who show their educational talents with courage 
and dedication;

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Chiththa Advanced Psychological Studies Open 
Institute of  Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
 ( n) to open sub branches of institution and managing 
and controlling them;
 ( o) to control all kinds of books and documents of 
print and electronic media under the Intellectual 
Property Act, as well as preserving the movable 
and immovable property of the Institute;
 ( p) the pioneer chairman of the Institute be able to 
appoint any ofﬁ cers and employees he think deem 
ﬁ t and pay off their wages; as well as to appiont a 
trustworthy ofﬁ cer in place of him while he is in 
abroad or not in good health;
 ( q) a new director, after the retirement of the chairman 
or after his demise be appointed by a proper vote 
and such director shall have the all powers enjoyed 
by the pioneer chairman of the institurte;
 ( r) any person appointed to serve the institute in 
various capscity be able to serve for a term of 5 
years, and the institute has the power to publich and 
declare through print media of his non-existence 
in the institute and bear no responsibilities in the 
institute any more about such personnel who retire 
before the completion of 5 years of term;
 ( s) to Chiththa Advanced Psychological Studies 
Open Institute of Sri Lanka be fully prepared to 
co-operate with the Internal and International 
universities of seminars, lecturs and workshop.
(2) In the implementation of the objects speci ﬁ ed 
in subsection (1) the body corporate shall ensure that 
such implementation shall be carried out without any 
discrimination based on race, religion, language, caste, sex, 
political opinion, place of birth or any of such grounds.
5
15
20
25
30
10

<!-- page 6 -->

Chiththa Advanced Psychological Studies Open 
Institute of  Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
5
4. The objects of the body corporate shall be carried out 
in such manner so as not to create any con ﬂ ict between 
the work of the body corporate an any work being carried 
out simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of the 
Government or any Provincial Council.
5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act management 
of the affairs of the body corporation shall be carrried 
out by a Board of Management (hereinafter referred to as                   
“the Board”) consisting of such number of ofﬁ ce bearers as 
may be speciﬁ ed by the rules made under section  7.
(2) (a) The Board of Management of the foundation that 
holds ofﬁ ce on the day immediately preceding the date of 
commencement of this Act, shall function as the Board of the 
body corporate until the ﬁ rst Board is appointed or elected 
in the manner provided for by rules made under section 7.
(b) The ﬁ rst Board of the body corporate shall be apointed 
or elected within one year of the date of commencement of 
this Act.
(3) ( a) Every of ﬁ ce bearer of the Board including the 
patrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for a 
period of three years and any such of ﬁ ce bearer, patron or 
advisor shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election 
after lapse of the said period of three years.
(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death, 
resignation, incapacity or removal from of ﬁ ce of an of ﬁ ce 
bearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of the body 
corporate, elect or appoint a person to ﬁ ll such vacancy.
5
15
20
25
10
Body 
corporate 
to ensure no 
conﬁ ct with 
work of 
Ministry or 
Department of 
the Central 
Governemt or 
Province
Management 
of the affairs 
of the body 
corporate

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Chiththa Advanced Psychological Studies Open 
Institute of  Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph ( b) 
shall hold ofﬁ ce only for the unexpired portion of the term 
of ofﬁ ce of the member whom he succeeds.
 6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other 
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do, 
perform and execute all such acts and matters as necessary 
or desirable for the promotion or any one of them, including 
the power—
 ( a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate and 
otherwise obtain lands or buildings which may 
be required for the purpose of the body corporate 
and to deal with or dispose of the same as may be 
deemed expedient with a view to promoting the 
objects of the body corporate;
 
 ( b) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations, 
in cash or kind with or without security:
Provided that the Body shall obtain prior 
written approval of the Department of External 
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned 
the subject of Finance, in respect of all foreign 
grants, gifts or donations made to the body  
corporate;
 ( c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate, 
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques, 
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments 
and to open, operate and close accounts in any 
banks;
 ( d) invest any funds not immediately required for the 
purpose of the body corporate in such manner as 
the Board may determine;
5
15
20
25
10
30
Powers of 
the body 
corporate

<!-- page 8 -->

Chiththa Advanced Psychological Studies Open 
Institute of  Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
7
 ( e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and 
administer any lawful trust or any real or personal 
property with a view to promoting the objects of 
the body corporate;
 ( f) to appoint, employ dismiss or terminate the services 
of ofﬁ cers and servants of the body corporate and 
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay 
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as 
may be determined by the body corporate;
 ( g) to do all other things as are necessary or expedient 
for the proper and effective carrying out the objects 
of the body corporate.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from time 
to time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less 
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make 
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or any 
other written law, for all or any of the following matters:—
 ( a) the classi ﬁ cation of membership, admission, 
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members 
and fees payable by members;
 
 ( b) the election of the of ﬁ ce-bearers of the Board or 
vacation of or removal from ofﬁ ce of ofﬁ ce-bearers 
and the powers, duties and functions of the of ﬁ ce 
bearers;
 ( c) the terms and conditions of appointment, powers, 
functions and duties of the various of ﬁ cers, agents 
and servants of the body corporate;
5
15
20
25
10
Rules of 
the body 
corporate

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Chiththa Advanced Psychological Studies Open 
Institute of  Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
 ( d) the procedure to be follwed at and the summoning 
and holding of meetings of the Board, or any sub 
committee thereof, notices and agenda of such 
meetings, the quorum and the conduct of business 
thereat;
 ( e) the quali ﬁ cation and disquali ﬁ cation to be a 
members of the Board and the body corporate;
 ( f) the administration and management of the property 
of the body corporate; and
 ( g) the management of the affairs of the body 
corporate, and the accomplishment of its’ objects 
and dissolution of the body corporate.
(2) The rule made by the body corporation may be 
amended, altered, added or rescinded at a like meeting and 
in like manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3)  The members of the body corporate shall at all time 
be subject to the rules of the body corporate.
(4)  The rules made under this section shall be published 
in the Government 
Gazette.
 8. The Board shall maintain a register of members in 
which name, address and other essential details of the 
members be inscribed.
 9.  (1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.
(2)  All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation, 
subsctiption, contribution, fees or grants for an account of 
the body corporate shall be deposited in one or more banks 
approved by the Board to the credit of the body corporate.
5
15
20
25
10
Register of 
members
Fund of the 
body corporate

<!-- page 10 -->

Chiththa Advanced Psychological Studies Open 
Institute of  Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
9
(3)  There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money 
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the 
body corporate in the exercise, performance and discharge 
of its power, duties and functions under the Act.
10. (1) The ﬁ nancial year of the body corporate shall be 
the calendar year.
(2)  The body corporate shall cause proper accounts  to be 
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and all 
other transactions of the body corporate.
(3)  The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited 
by a qualiﬁ ed auditor appointed by Auditor General in terms 
of Article 154 of the Constitution.
(4) For the purpose of this section “quali ﬁ ed auditor” 
means —
 ( a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any other 
institute established by law, possesses a certi ﬁ cate 
to practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council 
of such institute; or
 ( b) a ﬁ rm of Accountants each of the resident partners 
of which, being a member of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other 
institute established by law, possesses a certi ﬁ cate 
of practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council 
of such institute.
 
11.  (1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities 
of the body corporate for each ﬁ nancial year and submit such 
report together with the audited statement of accounts to the 
5
15
20
25
10
Accounts and 
the Auditing
Annual Report

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Chiththa Advanced Psychological Studies Open 
Institute of  Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject 
of Social Services and to the Registrar of Voluntary Social 
Services Organizations appointed under the Voluntary 
Social Services Organization (registration and Supervision) 
Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of 
the year succeeding the year to which such report realtes.
(2) A separate account relating to the foreign and 
local moneys received by the body corporate during the 
ﬁ nancial year shall be attached to the report referred to in          
subsection (1).
12.  All debts and liabilities of the Centre existing on the 
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall 
be paid by the body corporate hereby constituted and all 
debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to the 
Centre on that day shall be paid to the body corporate for the 
purpose of this Act.
13. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the body 
corporate shall be able and capable in law, to take and 
hold any property movable or immovable, which may 
become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, 
testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such property 
shall be held by the body corporation for the purpose of this 
Act and subject to the rules of the body corporate made under 
section 7, with power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or 
otherwise dispose of the same.
14. The moneys and property of the body corporate 
howevey derived shall be applied solely towards the 
promotion of the objects of the body corporate and no portion 
thereof shall be paid or thrnsferred directly or indirectly by 
way of dividend, bonus or proﬁ t to the members of the body 
corporate.
5
15
20
25
10
Debts due by 
and payable 
to  the Centre
Body 
corporate may 
hold property 
movable and 
immovable
Application 
of money and 
property
30

<!-- page 12 -->

Chiththa Advanced Psychological Studies Open 
Institute of  Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
11
15.  (1) The Seal of the body corporate shall not be afﬁ xed 
to any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of the 
two members of the Board who shall sign their names to the 
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall 
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
(2)  The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody 
of an ofﬁ ce bearer of the Board as may be decided by such 
Board.
16.  (1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporate, 
there remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and 
liabilities, any property whatsoever, such property shall not 
be distributed among the members of the body corporate, but 
shall be given or transferred to any other institution having 
objects similar to those of the body corporate, and which is 
by the rules thereof, prohibited from distributing any income 
or property among its members.
(2) For the purpose of this subsection (1) the appropriate 
institution shall be determined by the members of the body 
corporate immediately before the dissolution at a general 
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.
17.  Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect 
the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic or corporate.
18.  No person shall be liable in any suit or other legal 
preceding for any act done, or purporting to be done, in good 
faith in pursuance of the powers conferred by or under this 
Act, or for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this 
Act.
19.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala 
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
5
15
20
25
10
Indemnity for 
acts done in 
good faith
Seal of the 
body 
corporate
Property 
remaining on 
dissolution
Saving of the 
Rights of the 
Republic and 
others
Sinhala text 
to prevail 
in case of 
inconsistency

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Chiththa Advanced Psychological Studies Open 
Institute of  Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
Printed at the Department of  Government Printing