

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … ––
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1269
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"023 – 2017 cqks ui 09 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'06'09
No. 2,023 –  fRiday ,  juNE  09, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 30th june, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 16th june, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st january, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1267-B 81177- 5,403(06/2017)
N. B.–   (i) Local authorities Elections (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of june 02, 2017.
 (ii) Laila umma deen foundation (incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of june 02, 2017.
 

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2017
1268
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2017
1269
Posts – vacant
JuDICIAL SERvICE COmmISSION 
Recruitment to the Post of Deputy Registrar of 
the Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka - 2017
tHE judicial Service commission has decided to call for 
applications for the recruitment of deputy Registrar of the 
court of appeal of Sri Lanka. accordingly applications are 
called from those who possess following qualifications. 
01. the post is permanent and pensionable. 
02. the post carries a monthly salary scale of Rs. 47,615 
-10x1,335 - 8x1,630 - 17x2,170 - Rs. 110,895. (the initial 
salary step will be the (SL 1-2016) 12th step (Rs. 62,595) in 
this salary scale. Salary will be paid in accordance with Sub 
schedule ii of P. a. circular No. 03/3016 till 01.01.2020)
03. Qualifications : 
 (a) if a Registrar Grade i in the Sri Lanka 
courts Registrars Service with a satisfactory 
continuous service period of 04 years ; or
 (b) (i) if an attorney-at-Law who has been in 
active practice for a period not less than 05 
years ; and
  (ii) Should be not less than 28 years and not 
more than 40 years of age by the closing 
date of applications. 
Note : 
 (i) The upper age limit will not apply for officers 
already in the courts Registrar Service. 
 (ii) Period of service as an attorney-at-Law in a 
staff post or in a legal capacity in any Ministry, 
Government department or State corporation 
or as a teacher of law in a recognized 
University or Law School or as an officer in the 
judicial Service of Sri Lanka or as a President 
of a Labour tribunal or Rural court shall be 
regarded as a period of "active practise".
04. Every applicant should be -
 (a) a citizen of Sri Lanka,
 (b) of excellent moral character. 
05. applicants will be required to produce following 
documents when they are called upon to do so, 
 (a) Certificate of Birth, 
 (b) Certificate of the highest educational 
qualification, 
 (c) Certificates of professional qualifications, 
 (d) Certificate of the highest examination passed in 
Sinhala, tamil, English. 
06. applicants selected after the interview should serve 
in the court of appeal, colombo 12. 
07. applicants should prepare applications in conformity 
with the specimen appended to this notice and should be 
sent under registered cover addressed to the Secretary, 
judicial Service commission Secretariat, colombo 12 to 
reach on or before 30.06.2017. the envelope containing 
the application should be marked "Recruitment to the post 
of deputy Registrar, court of appeal - 2017" on its top left 
hand corner. applications received after the closing date 
and not in accordance with the required qualifications in 
this notice will be rejected without any notification. 
08. applicants in the Public/corporation Service should 
send their applications through the respective Heads of 
department/corporations. 
09. applicants who have already sent applications in 
accordance with the notice published in the Government 
Gazette Notification dated 23.02.2017 do not require to re-
apply. 
 G. M. W. P. 
Jayathilake, 
 High court judge/acting Secretary, 
 judicial Service commission. 
judicial Service commission Secretariat, 
colombo 12, 
17th May, 2017.
aPPLicatioN foRM foR tHE REcRuitMENt of 
dEPuty REGiStRaR of tHE couRt of aPPEaL 
of SRi LaNka - 2017
 1.  Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––.
 2.  Names denoted by initials :–––––––––.
 3. (i) date of Birth :–––––––––.
  (ii) age as at 30.06.2017 :
   y ears :–––––––. Months :––––––. days :––––––.
 4. (i) Permanent address :–––––––––.
  (ii) district :–––––––––.
 5.  National identity card Number :–––––––––.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2017
1270
 6.  telephone Number : 
   Home :–––––––––. Mobile :–––––––––.
 7.  if you are a registrar : 
  (i) date of appointment to Registrar Grade i :–––––.
  (ii) Date of confirmation in said post :–––––––––.
  (iii) Service period in Grade i as at 30.06.2017 :––––.
  (iv) Have you been subjected to any disciplinary 
punishment during service period ? :–––––––––.
  (v) if yes, give particulars :–––––––––.
 8.  if you are an attorney-at-Law : 
  (i) date of enrolment as an attorney-at-law :––––––.
  (ii) courts in which you often appear at present :               
–––––––––.
  (iii) if you are employed at a certain Ministry, Public 
department, corporation, recognized university, 
School of Law or in the Sri Lanka judicial Service :
 (i) date of appointment :–––––––––.
 (ii) designation and Grade :–––––––––.
 (iii) department and the present station :–––––.
 (iv) Date of confirmation :–––––––––.
 (v) Whether have been subjected to any 
disciplinary punishment during service 
period ? :–––––––––.
 (vi) if yes, give particulars :–––––––––.
 9. (i) Have you ever been convicted for any offence in 
any court ? :–––––––––.
  (ii) if yes, give particulars :–––––––––.
i hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me are 
true and correct. 
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant. 
date :–––––––––.
Attestation of Applicant's Signature 
(Not applicable for applicants already in the 
Government Services)
i certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................
......... is known to me personally and that he/she placed his/
her signature before me on ......................
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of attester. 
date :–––––––––.
(applicant's signature should be attested by a chief 
priest in a Buddhist temple/a person in charge of 
another religious institution holding an important post/a 
Principle of a Government School/Grama Niladhari of 
the divisional Secretariat division/a justice of Peace/a  
commissioner of oaths/an attorney-at-Law/a Notary 
Public/a Commissioned officer in the three forces or a 
permanent Government officer drawing a monthly salary 
of not less than Rs. 47,615).
Recommendation of the Head of the Department :
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................... 
employed in this ............................................... is an 
officer who has completed a satisfactory service period 
of 04 years in Grade i of the courts Registrar Service of 
Sri Lanka/is an attorney-at-Law not more than 40 years of 
age by the closing date of applications possessing 05 years 
professional qualifications required to apply for the post of 
deputy Registrar, court of appeal of Sri Lanka, that he/
she could be released from his/her post if selected for the 
above post, that he/she signed before me and that his/her 
application is recommended. 
 Signature of Head of department :–––––––––.
 Stamp :–––––––––.
date :–––––––––.
06-217
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNka.