

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
683
wxl 1"711 - 2011 cqks ui 17 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'06'17
No. 1,711  – FRIDAY, JUNE 17, 2011
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (B) — LOCAL GOVERNMENT
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Statements of Revenue & Expenditure ... —
Budgets ... ––
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
PAGE
Posts - Vacants ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Local Government Notifications ... ––
By-Laws ... 684
Notices under the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance —
683
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 24th June, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 10th June,
2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEW ARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
N.B.— Tamil version of this Gazette is printed separately.
Part III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,710 of 10.06.2011 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
684
By – Laws
NORTH WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL
COUNCIL - BY LAW
Local Government (Standard) By Law Act, No. 06 of 1989
IT  is hereby published the draft By-law made by me, Minister in
charge of subject of Local Government North Western Province
under Section 02 of Local Government (Standard by Law) Act, No.
06 of 1952 read with Sec. 02 (Incidental Provisions) of provincial
Council Act, No. 12 of 1989.
Powers have been vested in Pradeshiya Sabha terms of Section
26 read with Section 22 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to
make By-Laws including provisions of said draft By-Laws and
therefore powers are vested in Pradeshiya Sabhas to accept those
By-Laws in terms of sub Section 03 of Section 02 of said Local
Government (Standard By Law) Act.
RESOLUTION
The Sabha proposes that Five Standard by-Laws out of six
which were adopted to be implemented within North western
Province Provincial Council by the Chief Minister of North Western
Province at the General meeting held on 30.11.2010 at the
Auditorium of Public Library of Pradeshiya Sabha-Kobeigane,
should be accepted and implemented within the jurisdiction of our
Pradeshiya Shaba.
A
THULA SARA TH KUMARA WIJESINGHA,
Chief Miniter,
 (Chief Minister and Minister of Finance, Planning,
Law and Order, Local Government, Provincial
Administration, Man power, Education and
Cultural Affairs, Environment, Housing and
Construction, Industry and
Rural Industry and women's Affairs.)
NORTH WESTERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL BY-LAW ON
ITINERANT TRADE
01. This By-Law is enacted for regulating, controlling and
administration of itinerant trade within the jurisdiction of
Pradeshiya Sabha.
02. Those do not posses a licence for itinerant trade issued by
the chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha-Kobeigane or his
authorized officer in terms of this By-law should not
functions as an itinerant seller within the jurisdiction of
Pradeshiya Sabha.
03. Itinerant trade licence set out in By-law 02 should be
substantial with Schedule 02 and for that an application in
terms of Schedule 01 should be submitted.
04. (1) Unless every Licence obtained in terms of By-law 02,
is cancelled they will take effect until 31st of December
of year in which the licence was issued.
The authority shall have the powers to cancel at any
time and re-issue of this licence by reasons of violation
of provisions of these By-Laws.
(2) A Licence issued for a limited period shall be valid only
for the time period mentioned in the Licence.
05. By no reasons, Licences and identity cards obtained in terms
of By-law 2 shall not be alienated.
06. Every itinerant seller shall wear the identity card issued by
the chairman when he is engaging in business activities.
07. Chairman shall have the powers to include conditions which
are considered suitable for every Licence issued.
08. A fee at a rate required by periodical adopted resolutions
shall be paid for obtaining Licence under this By-Law.
09. Every Licenced itinerant seller shall do their businesses from
6.00 a. m. to 10.00 a. m. Provided however in case of special
functions the chairman may mitigate these periods.
10. Any Licence holder or his representative shall not reside in
side or near the itenerant trade stall after business hours.
11. If itinerant stalls are used, cooking or preparation of foods
shall not be carried out inside or near those stalls.
12. If foods are sold; all food items should be covered hygienically
and cutlery for taking foods shall be used. Similarly, business
should be carried out in comply with the provisions of food
Act.
13. Meat of animals not included in cattle slaughter ordinance
shall not be sold.
14. In case the Licence holder is suffering from any communicable
disease he shall not engage in business works and an individual
suffering from a communicable disease also shall not get
involved.
15. The chairman shall prohibit the trade of food items or other
items prepared in an area in which a communicable disease is
spreading or has spread.
16. Waste material or waste, shall not be removed into public
places and measures shall have been taken in a way that the
chairman is satisfied.
17. The itinerant seller himself shall prepare and follows a formal
method with the concurrence of the Sabha for disposal of
garbage, waste material and waste water generated by
itinerant selling.
18. The licence holder shall produce his licence and Identity card
at he request of an authorized officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
19. Itinerant trade is prohibited within the market premises.
Selling in same period for a long time shall not be done.
20. Where the licence is cancelled by a duly authorized court,
the Licence shall be forthwith returned to the chairman.
21. Taking actions under Sec. 122 (02) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
regarding any violation of this By-Law or when the absence
of itinerant trade Licence or the identity card issued by the
Sabha shall be legal.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
685
SCHEDULE 02
APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION AS AN ITINERANT SELLER
01. Full Name :––––––––––––.
02. Address :––––––––––––.
03. N. I. C. No. :––––––––––––.
04. Nature of business :––––––––––––.
05. Period of time engaging in itinerant trade :––––––––––––.
06. Old business Identity Cards/License No. :––––––––––––.
07. If there is any permanent claim regarding the permanent shops
situated within Pradeshiya Sabha limits shop No. and
Assessment No. :––––––––––––.
It is hereby requested that above particulars are true. Further it
is requested to make arrangements for registration as a mobile seller
subject to the agreement that item prescribed by Pradeshiya Sabha
and Urban Councils are not sold, that actions are taken as per the
decision taken by Pradeshiya Sabha/Urban Council and that
registration as a mobile seller is not considered as aright.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :––––––––––,
P
ARKING VEHICLES WITHIN PRADESHIY A SABHA LIMITS
01. This By-Law may be cited as by Law on establishment,
controlling and Administration public parking places for
vehicles and regularizing of parking vehicles in those places.
Here, unless the context otherwise requires "Authorized
Officer" means an officer who was authorized on a written
notice by the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Itinerant Trade" means a trade carried out by walking, by
using a foot bicycle, a motor-bike, a motor vehicle, a cart, a
wheeled stall or a quadruped
"Shaba" means Pradeshiya Sabha concerned
"Chairman" means chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
SCHEDULE 01
M
OBILE TRADE LICENSE
Pending to implementation of the following conditions within
the limits, this license is issued for below mentioned individuals :–
01. Full Name :––––––––––.
02. Address :––––––––––.
03. N. I. C. No. :––––––––––.
04. Nature of business :––––––––––.
05. Business area :––––––––––.
06. Amount to be paid :
Date :––––––––––.          Bill No.:––––––––––.
07. Licence No. :––––––––––.
Conditions :
01. Wearing a uniform,
02. Wearing the identity card so that members of public can see
conveniently,
03. Abstaining from using liquor,
04. Not selling in entrances and steps,
05. To behave civilly and politely,
06. Putting the wastes disposed by people into dustbins,
07. Paying monthly trade fee before 10th,
08. Tools such as knives should not be kept (Violation of above
conditions or default of payment within the prescribed
period will result in cancellation of License).
02. (1). The chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha-Kobeigane
(hereinafter reffered to as the ‘Chairman’) may declare
the sailable places for parking vehicles within his
purview.
(2). By security reasons or other reasons parking
prohibition places may be declared by a clearly visible
notice displayed stating that it is an out of bound area
for parking.
03. 2.2 In a place where parking is prohibited by a notice in
By-law, the driver shall not park the vehicle except for
time period required for following instances.
(a) To act accordance with a certain notice or a vehicle
signal displayed or constructed on the road or on
that street by a competent authority.
(b) To act accordance with the travelling situation on
that road or street for the time being.
(c) To allow a person to get into or get down from the
vehicle.
(d) To land or unload goods.
04. If a valid permit issued by the Chairman or Secretary under
this By-Law is not in the possession, no one shall park his
vehicles in a vehicle park.
05. A fee granted and published after the resolution adopted by
Sabha may be recovered for permits issued in terms of
By-Law 04 above.
06. On a payment of a monthly fee which may be ordered by
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time to the Pradeshiya Sabha
by a Government department, a co-operation or a in
co-operated personal body, as the case may be, a permit for
vehicles owned by that department co-operation or personal
body may be obtained.
07. Every person who obtains a permit under By-Law above
should fix it so that it can be visible conveniently from out
side of the vehicle.
08. When a car park is allocated for a specific class of vehicles
or a specific make, no one shall park a vehicle, different
class from that class or make.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
686
09. No person shall park his vehicle in a way to block another
vehicle comes in to and goes out of the car park.
10. The vehicle shall not be parked during the period other than
specifically mentioned time period in the permit.
11. The vehicle shall be parked by the permit holder in such
manner as required by Pradeshiya Sabha so that no person,
public property or private property will be obstructed by
those vehicles.
12. (1). Repairs shall not be done in a public car park except in
case of a repair which needs for taking the vehicle out
from the park.
(2). Shall be refrained from doing some thing which could
lead to violation of peace or damage to the virtue.
(3). The vehicle shall not be started in the public car park
so as to emerge an abnormal sound.
(4). No one shall wash the vehicle or cause the vehicle to be
washed when the vehicle is parked in a public parking
place.
13. When a vehicle is being parked in a public car park the
driver or the owner of the vehicle shall forward the license
for inspection at the request, at any time by a police constable
or vehicle controller.
14. A fee adopted by Pradeshiya Sabha may be recovered in
proportionate to the time of parking a vehicle in a street, or
a mawatha situated within adopted limits by Sabha situated
in a town area or a place where general public gather.
15. From a vehicle parked in a street or a mawatha with the
view to earn income a fee adopted by the Sabha from time
to time may be recovered.
16. When the three wheelers are parked after obtaining a permit
the three wheeler shall not park in another nominated place
by the Sabha other than the place mentioned in the permit.
17. The following terms and conditions shall be applied for
three wheelers which are parked in a public car park with
the view to hiring it :–
(1). When a person apply for a permit mentioned in the
By-Law 04 and he is not the owner of the three wheeler
the agreement of the owner about issuing the permit
shall be informed to the Pradeshiya Sabha-Kobeigane
by a written notice.
(2). The three wheeler shall not park in any place other
than a place mentioned the permit with the aim of
hiring it.
(3). Hiring can be done on mutual agreement. Accordingly,
if they fail to come to an agreement, turns may be
allocated upon the instruction given by chairman.
18. This By-law will take effect from 6.00 a. m. to 8.00 p. m. on
every days.
19. Those who violate this By-law shall be punished in terms
of Sec. 122 (02) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
The Chairman shall have the powers to amend these time
periods and fees following the approval of the Sabha and
those amendments should be published in the Gazette.
In this By-law unless the context otherwise requires –
"Chairman" means, chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha ;
"Pradeshiya Sabha" means, the Pradeshiya Sabha concerned ;
"Police Officer" means, an officer of Sri Lanka Police Service
who is wearing the Police uniform ;
"A motor vehicle" means and officer or servant of the
Pradeshiya Sabha-Kobeigane appointed for discharging every
duty assigned by Chairman or Secretary for maintenance of
good control regarding parking of vehicles ;
"Secretary" means, the secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha
concerned ;
"Public places for parking vehicles and prohibited places
for parking vehicles" means, places adopted by Pradeshiya
Sabha.
Provincial Council of North Western Province
B
Y-LAW ON DESTROYING MOSQUITOES AND DISEASE CAUSING
INSECTS WITHIN PRADESHIY A SABHA LIMITS
01. This By-Law is enacted for the upliftment of environmental
condition of the area and for prevention of spreading
communicable diseases by destroying and preventing of
breeding mosquitoes and insects.
02. No person or an individual within Pradeshiya Sabha limits
shall act in such a manner as it could lead to breeding of
mosquitoes or disease causing insects.
03. Residents in anywhere of the jurisdiction of Pradeshiya
Sabha shall –
(1). Cause the opened tins, bottles, boxes, plastic cans,
discarded tyres, coconut shells, empty coconuts other
goods, materials, vessals and places in which water could
be accumulated to be removed successfully.
(2). Properly maintain the water drainage of constructions
such as railing pipes etc., in residential and non-residential
places and drains of home gardens.
pay continuous attention and remove their blockages.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
687
(3). Take action for proper maintenance with necessary
repairing of all water vessels, tanks and other vessels in
which water is accumulated.
to cover them or close so as to protect from mosquitoes
and insects or to keep in the condition so as to prevent
from breeding mosquitoes and insects in those places; to
inspect by an officer of a Pradeshiya Sabha and to make
an access to those easily and securely.
04. Properly maintain all the wells constructed in lands and
shall take action to cover them or close so as to protect from
mosquitoes and insects or to keep in the condition so as to
prevent from breeding mosquitoes and insects.
05. Make empty and clean at least once a week, when there is
an exhaustive artificial tanks.
06. Maintain daily the drains of home gardens and lands for the
prevention of creating the ditches by collecting water.
07. Remove all thicket scrubs, cultivations and vegetations etc.
situated within every part contains semi diameter of 5m.
from a building or a construction used for living.
08.  Maintain all metal quarries, ..gem. mines, clay ponds and
pits made for any other purpose so as to prevent them from
collecting water.
09. remove and destroy aquatic plants usually known as Diya
paradel and mosess (penda pasi, thel pasi and Barawa pasi)
or any other aquatic plants which are come to know from
time to time cause for breeding mosquitoes or insects.
Spreading of plants mentioned in sub Sec. 09 of this by-law
shall be prevent by building obstacles so as to prevent them
from floating along a water way.
10. Shall maintain all toilets, water pits, water absorptive pits,
sealed pits and their surrounding so as to prevent from
breeding mosquitoes, for destroying mosquitoes and disease
censing insects.
04. It shall be legal to enter into and examine a certain place at
any time within 6.00 a. m. to p. m. on any day for verification
of following facts by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha
or an officer authorized generally or specially for the said
duty by a written notice.
(1). Whether that is a breeding place for mosquitoes and
flies
(2). Whether the residents of that place have observed
the terms of the by-laws.
(3). Whether it should take measures for arresting and
destroying the breeding of mosquitoes and if so what
are the steps to be taken.
(4). Whether insecticides has been sprinkled properly.
05. (1). Following an examination, which is deemed necessary
for a particular place. the owner or the occupant of
that place may be ordered by a written notice by the
chairman or an officer uathorized generally or
specially for the said duty to take necessary actions
for destruction and prevention of breeding mosquitoes
or disease causing in sects in that place.
(2). The owner or the occupant of a certain place to which
a notice was handed over under Sec. 01 above of this
By-law, the said measures shall be taken within the
period definitely mentioned in that notice.
06. (1). An owner or an occupant of a certain place shall not
construct a well, a tank, a pond, Water vessel, a
shower, permanent vessel in which water is stored in
consistent with the instructions given by the officer
for prevention of breeding insects and disease causing
insects in that place or without taking permission
from the Chairman.
(2). When constructions made in cosistent with
provisions of Sec. 01 above of this By-law the
chairman may order the owner or the occupant of
that place by written notice to fill up those wells,
ponds, water containers, shower or containers from
material directed or to destroy in other way or change
the constructions within the time period given in the
notice.
07. (1). The notice under Sec. 05 or 06 may be personally
handed over to the owner or the occupant of a certain
place or may be struck, in that place so that it could
be visible conveniently.
(2). When there are two or mare co-owners live together
and a notice under provisions of By-law 7 (1) and
by-law 5 is handed over to the one of them they shall
separately and collectively responsible for avoiding
the execution of terms of that notice.
(3). When the occupant or the owner of a certain place
fails to executive terms mentioned in the notice given
to them under by laws 5 or 6 within the prescribed
period the chairman or the officer who issued the
notice or an officer authorized for the said duty may
at any time from 6.00 a. m. to 6.00 p. m. on any day
enter in to that place with assistants and servants
whose services are considered necessary and execute
or cause to be executed the activities or measures
definitely mentioned in the notice.
02. (1). No one shall run a hotel, a lodge or rest house within
Pradeshiya Shaba limits when he does not posses a
permit issued by the Chairman.
04. When activity or measure definitely mentioned in a notice
handed over to and occupant or an owner of a certain place
under By laws 5, 6 and 7 was executed or implemented by

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
688
chairman or an officer authorized, the expenditure incurred
for that purpose shall be paid by that occupant or the owner
to the chairman. It shall be paid by the occupant or the
owner within 14 days following the written request made
by the chairman under his signature and if not paid it shall
be legal to recover it as a fine imposed by Pradeshiya Sabha-
Kobeigane.
08. No one shall disturb or obstruct knowingly or willfully
authorized officer in legally implementing his duty under
these By-laws.
09. It shall be legal to act in terms of Sec. 122 (02) of Pradeshiya
Sabha as regards the violation of this By-law.
10. In this By-laws unless the context otherwise requires:-
"Owner" means, an owner and a lessee; a person who lay
claims by any means to the rent or harvest of a certain
place.
"Occupant" means, a person residing in a certain place or a
person who hold its custody, management or administration
as a representative on his or another one behalf, but not a
boarder.
"Authorized Officer" means, an officer of a Sabha or servant
who was delegated powers in writing by the Chairman
concerned.
"Sabha" means, Pradeshiya Sabha - Kobeigane.
"Chairman" means, the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha
concerned.
"A Place" means, a certain land, house, building or a
construction and it also means a pond, tank, a water way, a
drain or a valley.
Provincial Council of North Western Province
B
Y-LAW ON DECORA TING ROADS AND HIGHW AYS SITUA TED
WITHIN PRADESHIY A SABHA LIMITS
01. This By-law is enacted for control administration and
regularizing of making decorations and for the prevention of
damages cause to the environment and disturbances causes
to the general pubilc by decorations made in pubilc places,
high ways and roads situated within Pradeshiya Sabha.
02. No person shall decorate any public place, high way or road
in the area unless he posses a permit issued by Pradeshiya
Sabha - Kobeigane.
03. Every application submitted for obtaining a permit
mentioned in By-law 02 shall be prepared in consistence
with the Schedule 02 here and forwarded.
04. Every application shall be submitted to the Chairman or the
Secretary at least 8 days earlier to the date on which
decorations are intended to be done. Provided however, if
an application which was not submitted within the time
period after the due period the Chairman or Secretary shall
receive the application considering under exceptional
circumstances sand act in that regard.
05. Every applicant shall furnish the particulars mentioned in
the application which is in the Schedule one above and
other particulars requested by the Chairman or the Secretary
for taking decisions as regard to the applications if any.
06. Every permit issued by Sabha
1. Shall be in the from of format given in Schedule 02 here.
2. Shall be valid only for the purpose and time period
issued pending to a suspension or a cancellation.
07. Decoration shall not be made by the permit holder in a way
to disturb a person, a group of persons walking on the road
or any vehicle travelling in highways concerned.
08. Decorations shall not be done in away to insult a person or
a group of persons.
09. The relevant permit shall issue, only if it is satisfied to the
effect that,
(1). the permit issued is not used for the violation of a
provision mentioned in these by-laws.
(2). no damage loss, or a harm cause to the man, environment
or public property due the acts done using the permit.
(3). adequate measures have been taken by the applicant for
environmental protection.
10. (1). A fee at a rate periodically adopted by Pradeshiya Sabha
may be charged as a permit fee. Those fees shall be
published in a Gazette.
(2). An amount shall be deposited in the Sabha when the
permit is issued on the basis of amount of decoration
made by permit holder. That deposit amount may be
decided by Sabha by a periodical adopted resolution.
11. (1). If the decorations made by the permit holder are not
removed during the prescribed period it is legal to remove
them by the Sabha and to credit the amount deposited
by the permit holder to the Sabha fund for the recovery
of expenditure incurred for that propose.
(2). If the request is not made to the Sabha for refund the
deposited amount within six months after the removal
of decorations by the permit holder within the prescribed
period the said deposit amount shall be credited to the
Sabha fund.
12. The permit holder shall not decorate in a way to disturb or
damage the property in either side of the road or a person or
a group of persons travelling or walking on those roads. If
any damage occurred, the permit holder is responsible for
that.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
689
13. The permit holder is responsible for disposal of all refuses
created in decorating, without damaging the environment.
14. The permit issued by Sabha for decorating shall be forwarded
for inspection at the request by an authorized officer or a
police officer.
15. The permit holder shall act to remove decorations as set out
in the permit on or before due date and time.
16. On conviction for omission of an act which establishes the
violation of this by-law, by a court with proper jurisdiction
or on the delivery of a written notice inviting attention the
said violation sent by chairman or an officer authorized by
the chairman, the person concerned shall be subject to a
penalty under Sec. (02) 122 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.
15 of 1987.
In these by-law unless the context otherwise requires.
"a decoration" means, any decoration made by natural,
artificial or any material and light signals.
"A person" means, a person, a group of persons, an institute
or an organization.
"Roads and highways" means, meanings given respectively
for roads in Road Ordinance (Cap. 193)
"Public property" means, telecommunication and electricity
towers situated in either side of all roads and highways and
all places commonly used by members of the public.
"Police Officer" means, an officer of Sri Lanka police service
who is wearing the police uniform/
"Authorized officer" means, an officer of Pradeshiya Sabha
who was delegated powers in a written notice by the chairman
of Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Secretary" means, the secretary appointed to the
Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Sabha" means, the relevant Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Chairman" means, the chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha-
Kobeigane.
SCHEDULE - 01
A
PPLICA TION FOR OBTAINING A PERMIT FOR DECORATION
OF ROADS AND HIGHWAYS
01. Name of Applicant :––––––––––.
02. Address of Applicant :––––––––––.
03. Telephone No. of Applicant :––––––––––.
04. N. I. C. No. of Applicant :––––––––––.
05. Name of street or area to be decorated :––––––––––.
06. Proposed date for decorations :––––––––––.
07. Materials used for decorations :––––––––––.
08. Date of removal of decorations :––––––––––.
09. Actions taken for disposal of waste materials :–––––––––.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Checked Recommend that a fee of Rs. ………………… to be
recovered for decorating ……………… of ……………… m/sq. m.
Authorized Officer.
SCHEDULE - 02
P
ERMIT FOR DECORATING ROADS AND HIGHW AYS
01. Name of Applicant :––––––––––.
02. Address of Applicant :––––––––––.
03. N. I. C. No. of Applicant :––––––––––.
04. Approved area/Street for making decorations :–––––––––.
05. Proposed date for decorations :––––––––––.
06. Date of removal of decorations :––––––––––.
Provincial Council - North Western Province
By-law on Lodges and Rest Houses
01. This By-law may be enacted to regulate hotels, lodges and
rest houses that are registered within the jurisdiction of
Pradeshiya Sabha under Tourism Development Act, No. 14
of 1968 or maintained without such registration.
02. (1). No one shall run a hotel rest house or a lodge within the
jurisdiction of Pradeshiya Sabha when absence of a formal
licence issued by the chairman.
(2). A fee published in a gazette by the Sabha shall be paid
for a license issued under paragraph I of this by-law the
licence shall expire on 31st December of each year in
which the licence is issued, unless the valid period is
cancelled earlier by the Sabha.
03. Every licence issued by Sabha shall be in the form of format
given in Schedule 02.
04. 02 (1) Single rooms and their numbers of a lodge, a hotel or
a rest house and the maximum guests whom will be facilitated
shall be mentioned in every License issued under by-law.
05.  (1) No Person shall be entitled to obtain License for staying
in a lodge unless he observe the conditions set out in by-
laws from 06-13.
(2) When a request made for a License is rejected, the
chairman shall in form the applicant in writing the reasons
for such denial within 06 months of receipt of
application.
06. 1. When the premises is not faced to a public road, there
should be a suitable means of access for entry in to that
premises.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
690
(2) The building should be strongly constructed and
properly maintained
(3) The roof shall have been built by permanent and long
lasting materials.
(4) Shall be implemented a method for removal of rubbish
inside the building daily.
07. (1) The floor area of a room for one guest shall be at lest
90 sq. ft. and shall be not less than 60 sq. ft. in case more
than one guest stay in a same room.
(2) Windows which can be opened should have been fixed in
every room for receiving fresh air and light. The area of
each window when opened shall not be less than 1/5 of
floor area of the room.
(3) Walls of the room shall not be less than 10 ft. in height.
(4) Floor shall not have been made from water absorptive or
leaking materials.
(5) A table, a small rack, a mirror and adequate number of
beds and chairs shall have been provided according to
the number of guests to be accommodated in each room.
(6) Every bed shall be supplied with a mosquito net.
(7) Clean bed sheets, pillows and pillow cases shall be
supplied as per the number of guests. Bed sheets, pillow
cases shall be changed at any time guests are transferred.
If guests are staying for several days, bed sheets and
pillow cases shall be changed at least once a four days.
(8) Locks shall have been fixed so that doors could be closed
well.
(9) Curtains shall have been fixed in the window.
(10) Dust bins of suitable size shall have been provided for
putting rubbish.
(11) Walls of rooms, doors and windows shall have been
painted.
(12) Drinking water and water for bathing shall be supplied.
08. (1) The restaurant shall have been built in a sufficient size
according to the numbers of guests.
(2) Adequate number of dining tables and chairs shall have
been provided.
(3) Walls, ceiling, doors, windows, floor, furniture and
fittings etc. shall be kept clean.
09. (1) There should have a kitchen in adequate size as per the
number of quests.
(2) Windows shall have been fixed so as to receive sufficient
air and light. Similarly chimneys shall have been made
so as to remove warm air and smoke efficiently.
(3) The floor shall not have been made from water
absorptive or leaking materials, and shall be able to be
cleaned easily.
(4) The walls of the kitchen shall be able to be cleaned
easily and surface up to 5 feet in height shall not be
made from water absorptive or leaking materials.
(5) Dust bins with lids shall be kept for putting rubbish.
(6) Vessels with lids shall be used for keeping spices and
food stuffs.
(7) All drains and main exit shall be kept cleaned and the
waste water shall be caused to flow into a closed and
water permeable pit.
(8) Cleanliness shall be maintained at maximum level in
preparing foods.
(9) Prepared foods shall be kept so as to protect them from
dust and waste materials.
(10) Ceiling, walls, doors, windows and furniture of kitchen
shall be kept cleaned daily.
(11) The kitchen shall be kept free from all kinds of insects,
flies and rats.
10. (1) Pantry shall be built so as to receive air and light
sufficiently.
(2) Floor shall not be made from water absorptive or leaking
materials.
(3) Kitchen utensils and food containers shall be kept
cleaned.
(4) Kitchen utensils shall be kept free from insects, flies
and rats.
11. (1) Shall have been erected adequate number of bath rooms.
(2) The floor area of every bathroom shall not be less than
35 sq. ft..
(3) A towel rack, a soap holder, a mirror, a wash basin and
a vessel for taking water shall be kept in every both
room.
(4) Drains shall have been set up for drainage of water and
closed pits shall have been made for collecting them.
12.  (1) When there are no toilet facilities for each room, separate
toilets shall have been built for males and females.
(2) When there are no toilets facilities for each room, at
least one toilets shall have been built for every 05 guest.

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
691
(3) Tap water facilities shall have been provided to the
toilets.
(4) Every toilets shall have been provided with sanitary
baskets, soap, soap cases and toilet papers.
(5) Floor and surface of walls up to 5ft. in height shall not
be made from water absorptive and leaking materials.
(6) Shall have a good pipe system in toilet.
(7) Every toilet shall be cleaned daily by using detergent
for sanitation.
13. (1) The external environment around the building shall be
free from garbage.
(2) The premises shall have been arranged so as to drain
water well.
(3) Well constructed pits shall be used to retain waste water
discharged from the lodge.
(4) Pits and septic tanks shall be maintained so as to prevent
from breeding mosquitoes and insects; and provisions
shall have been made to prevent emission of an odour.
(5) Provisions shall have been made to bury the waste
materials removed from the lodge or to remove them
hygienically.
(6) Animals like chickens, cattle, pigs etc., shall not be
kept within the premises.
14. (1) The Chairman, within 07 days of receipt of application
shall send a copy to the Medical Officer of Health
(M. O. H.) before issuing of a license in terms of the
provisions of these by laws.
(2) It is the duty of the M. O. H. to send his observations
and recommendations to the Chairman within 07 days
following the premises is inspected.
15. The licence holder shall fix a board written in Sinhala, Tamil
and English giving details of his name and name of the lodge
in front of the premises so as to see clearly.
16. Every licence holder shall keep the copies of by-laws
prepared in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages and the
framed licence in a clearly visible place. Similarly a list
including names and addresses of all employees working in
the lodge shall have kept so that chairman or a person
authorized by him could check it in reasonable times.
17. The Licence holder shall not allow any guest to use any
room as bed rooms other than the rooms specifically
mentioned in plan annexed to the licence and in the plan
signed by the Chairman.
18. Two children of less than 10 years old shall be considered to
be one person for the purpose of this by law.
19. The Licence holder shall cause a notice board mentioning
the size of the room and permitted maximum number of
occupants to be fixed in each room.
20. The Licence holder shall not allow the lodge to be used for
illegal matters and he shall maintain the peace and favourable
environment within the premises.
21. Every Licence holder shall maintain a register, including the
name, permanent address and National Identity Card No.
and Telephone No. (if any) of each person who are staying
in the Licenced lodge premises.
22. Every Licence holder shall paint the walls in white and the
parts made from timber shall be polished. Floor shall be
washed and cleaned or shall be wax polished.
23. The Licence holder shall, maintain, well and keep clean the
every parts of the lodge its surrounding and drains, keep
free from odour emitting from toilets, septic tanks, or drains
or free from any other harassments. He shall maintain
furniture covers and instrument cleanly and hygienically.
Every Licence holder of a lodge shall cause every room, foot
path, foot step, warandah, drain and the yard of the premises
to be swept daily.
25. Every Licence holder shall cause the cooked meals to be
kept away from flies and insects.
26. Every Licence holder of a lodge shall cause the garbages,
domestic wastes or other unpleasant materials to be put in
to a dust bin with a lid and cause them to be removed daily
from the premises. The dust bin shall have been kept closed
at every time except when wastes are putting in.
27. No person suffering from any infectious, contagious or
dermatological disease shall not be entered into the premises
by the permit holder.
28. (1) If a guest in a lodge suffers from contagious or
dermatological disease his the licence holder of the lodge
shall forthwith inform it to the Public Health Inspector
of the area or the Chairman and if Chairman order to
vacate the lodge, he shall promptly take action to do
so. Further the Licence holder shall take action for
destroying germs of the bed sheet, clothes and other
items used by the diseased person and for painting the
walls of the room.
(2) The permit holder shall not provide accommodations
in terms of Chap. 28 (01) of this by law to any person
until Medical Officer of Health or his assistant check
the place and issue a certificate to the effect that the
place is free from infectiveness.
29. Every Licence holder shall and keep hygienically the mats,
bed sheets, pillows, pillow cases and beds which are used in
the lodge in case they should be kept cleaned.

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
692
30. (1) Entry into a lodge and inspecting it at any time in
reasonable time by the Chairman or an officer of Sabha
who was generally or specially authorized by the
Chairman in writing shall be legal.
(2) The Licence holder or the O. I. C. of the lodge shall
permit the Chairman or the Officer authorized by the
Chairman in writing to enter and inspect it. Further
they shall give all the assistance to the Chairman or the
above said representative in that regard.
31. Taking actions under Section 122 (02) of Pradeshiya Sabha
Act for violation of this by-law shall be legal.
32. If this by-law applicable to lodges are violated two or more
occassions it shall be lawful/legal to cancel the licence in
addition to any other punishment that can be imposed by a
court with proper jurisdiction.
33. Unless the context otherwise require,
“person” means a   co-operated or non co-operated personal
body ;
“guest” - means a person who receives accommodation with
sleeping facilities on payment or as a reward ;
“Pradeshiya Sabha” means Pradeshiya Sabha, Kobeigane ;
“Licence Holder”  means a person who function as a manager
of a licensed lodge or a rest house under this by-law ;
“Authorized Officer” means an officer authorized by the
Chairman or Secretary of Pradeshiya Sabha, Kobeigane ;
“Lodge” means a place that provide sleeping facilities with
or without food on recovery of a fee or any other charge ;
“Chairman” means the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sahba,
Kobeigane.
THE  SCHEDULE - 01
A
PPLICA TION FOR OBTAINING A LICENCE FOR A LODGE OR A REST
HOUSE
01. Name of Applicant :–––––––––––.
02. Private address :–––––––––––.
03. N. I. C. No. :–––––––––––.
04. Grama Niladhari Division :–––––––––––.
05. Nature of the service :–––––––––––.
06. Name of service center :–––––––––––.
07. Place situated :–––––––––––.
08. Time period of service :–––––––––––.
09. Floor area of the building :–––––––––––.
10. No. of doors and windows of the building :–––––––––––.
11. Length/height/width of the building :–––––––––––.
12. Particulars of Roof :–––––––––––.
13. Particulars of Floor, Cement/Bricks/Floor Tiles :–––––––––.
14. Date and No. of Conformity certificate if any :––––––––––.
15. No. of servants :–––––––––––.
16. Maximum number of guests :–––––––––––.
17. No. of bath rooms :–––––––––––.
18. No. of double rooms :–––––––––––.
19. Whether a toilet is available for each room :–––––––––––.
20. Whether common toilets are separated for male and female :
–––––––––––.
21. Whether dust bins are provided with each room :––––––––.
22. Whether separate water is supplied for drinking and bathing :
–––––––––––.
23. Whether the toilets were provided with water :––––––––––.
24. If not, what is the step taken :–––––––––––.
25. Step taken for removed of waste water :–––––––––––.
26. No. of fire extinguisher :–––––––––––.
27. No. of taps :–––––––––––.
28. No. of toilets :–––––––––––.
29. No. of urinals :–––––––––––.
30. Area of the kitchen :–––––––––––.
31. To display in Notice Boards :
1. Copy of the by-law,
2. Maximum number of guests permitted for having
accommodations,
3. Register containing name and particulars of those who
were provided with accommodations,
4. Register containing the signature and remarks of the
checking officer,
5. Notice board for displaying fees and prices.
32. Last date of painting :–––––––––––.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
06-223
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.