

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 282]
————————
Presented by Hon. Kanaka Herath, M.P. for Kegalle District
on 20th December, 2013
(Published in the Gazette on December 09, 2013)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5. 00
2-2d
STUDY  CENTRE FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
TECHNOLOGY AND SOCIAL WELFARE
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate Study  Centre for the Advancement of Technology
and Social Welfare (Incorporation)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Study  Centre for the Advancement of
Technology and Social Welfare (Incorporation)
2—PL 007780—  75 (11/2013)
Preamble.
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE STUDY  CENTRE FOR THE ADVANCEMENT
OF TECHNOLOGY AND SOCIAL WELFARE
WHEREAS a Centre called and known as the “ Study
Centre for the Advancement of Technology and Social
Welfare”  has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka at 75C,
Dutugemunu Mawatha, Dehiwala for the purpose of
effectually carrying out its objects and transacting all matters
connected with the said Centre according to the rules agreed
to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Centre has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted several objects and
matters  for which it was established, and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be expedient to grant the said
application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the 
Study  Centre for the
Advancement of Technology and Social Welfare
(Incorporation) 
 Act, No.     of 2013.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Study  Centre for the Advancement of Technology and Social
Welfare
 (hereinafter referred to as the “Centre”) or shall
hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby
constituted, shall be a body corporate with perpetual
succession, under the name and style of the “Study  Centre
for the Advancement of Technology and Social Welfare”
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) and by that
name may sue and be sued, with full power and authority to
have and use a common seal and to alter the same at its
pleasure.
Incorporation
of the Study
Centre for the
Advancement
of
Technology
and Social
Welfare.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Study  Centre for the Advancement of
Technology and Social Welfare (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to initiate the establishment of favourable cultural
heritage among Sri Lankans and to revive the Sri
Lankan culture among the Sri Lankan community,
living in other countries including Australia;
(b) to enlighten the Sri Lankans and international
community residing in other countries including
Australia about the Sri Lankan framework relating
to the spheres of culture, economy, politics and
sport;
(c) to discuss and take necessary action regarding the
issues and other responsibilities which affect the
Sri Lankans, living in other countries including
Australia;
(d) to assist the Sri Lankans residing around the world
to exchange the education, the development and
the technology and maintain close ties with the Sri
Lankans for the socio economic and cultural
development;
(e) to organize social welfare activities for the benefit
of Sri Lankans, specially the aged, youth, women
and non-privileged groups and to assist the
institutions and community needs in Sri Lanka,
Australia and other countries;
(f) to introduce the modern technology, arts, modern
management and busness skills to Sri Lankans,
residing in Sri Lanka, Australia and other countries,
to organize educational programmes continuously
and also assist in professional improvement;
(g) to provide advices and assistance to the supply of
basic needs of the Sri Lankans and students coming
to Australia and other countries;
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Study  Centre for the Advancement of
Technology and Social Welfare (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(h) to render assistance in the technical educational
programmes and to introduce youth and student
exchange programmes to improve manpower
requirements in the technical field among the Sri
Lanka, Australia and other countries;
(i) to accept issues relating to the immigration,
professional, social integrity, professional
education etc. affecting the Sri Lankans living in
Australia and other countries;
(j) to organize and conduct activities for the benefit of
the Sri Lankans and other community through print
and electronic multi-media;
(j) to acquire property by way of gifts, purchase, lease
and other means with the objective of establishing
educational and library facilities in the Sri Lankan
study centre for the benefit of Sri Lankans, living
in Sri Lanka and outside;
(l) to provide forum for the presentation or original
communications and discussions thereon;
(m) to establish and maintain data repositories; and
(n) to do all such other acts and things as are necessary
for and incidental or conducive to the attainment
of the above objects.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, be
administered by the Board of Management elected in
accordance with the rules of the Corporation.
(2) The first Board of Management of the Corporation
shall consist of the members of the Board of Management of
the Centre holding office on the day preceding the date of the
commencement of this Act.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Study  Centre for the Advancement of
Technology and Social Welfare (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the furtherance
of its objects or any one of them, including the power to
open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow or raise
moneys with or without security, to receive or collect grants
or donations, to invest its funds, to erect any building or
structure on any land held by the Corporation, and to engage,
employ and dismiss officers and servants required for the
carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
6.  (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time at any general meeting and by the votes of not less than
two thirds of the members present and voting, to make rules,
not inconsistent with the provision of this Act or any other
written law, for the admission, withdrawal or expulsion of
members, the election of the Board of Management, for the
conduct of the duties of the office bearers, agents, officers
and servants of the Corporation for the procedure to be
followed in the transaction of business by the Corporation
and Board of Management and generally, for the
management of the affairs of the Corporation and the
accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made may
at a like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added to,
amended or rescinded.
(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7.  (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund. All
moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation, transfer,
subscription, contribution or fees shall be deposited to the
credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the Board
of Management shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporation,
all such sums of money as may be required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in carrying out the
objects of the Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
General
Powers of the
Corporation.
35

<!-- page 6 -->

5Study  Centre for the Advancement of
Technology and Social Welfare (Incorporation)
(3) The moneys and property of the Corporation
whosesoever derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of the objects as setforth herein and no protion
thereof shall be paid or transferred ditectly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or otherwise, to any member of the
Corporation.
8.  (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor as  may be determined by the Board.
(4) In this section, “Qualified Auditor” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as
Accountant issued by  the Council of such
institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or of any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
institute.
9.  The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Secretary or a member of the Board as may be duly authorized
by the Board and other members of the Board who shall sign
Accounts and
Audit.
Seal of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Study  Centre for the Advancement of
Technology and Social Welfare (Incorporation)
their names on the instrument in token of their presence and
such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
10.  No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of annual subscription payable by
him to the Corporation.
11.  All debts and liabilities of the Centre existing on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall
be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all debts
due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Centre on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the
purpose of this Act.
12.  The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
take and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested on it by virtue of any purchase grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation with full power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
13.  If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other Foundation or
Foundations having objects similar to those of the
Corporation, and which is or are by the rules thereof
prohibited from distributing any income or property among
its or their members. Such Foundation or Foundations shall
be determined by the Board at or immediately before the
dissolution of the Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable
to the Centre.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Limitation of
liability of
members.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7Study  Centre for the Advancement of
Technology and Social Welfare (Incorporation)
14.  Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate
or of any other person, except such as are mentioned in this
Act and those claiming by, from or under them.
15.  No person shall be liable in any suit or other legal
preceding for any act done, or purporting to be done, in
good faith in pursuance of the powers conferred by or under
this Act, or for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
this Act.
16.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Indemnity
for acts done
in good faith.
5
10

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Study  Centre for the Advancement of
Technology and Social Welfare (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .