

<!-- page 1 -->

7
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021.01'08
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 08.01.2021
wxl 2"210- 2021 ckjdß ui 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2021.01'08
No. 2,210 – FriDAY , 08 JANuArY 2021
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II  — LeGAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
AtteNtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. No-
tices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29 January, 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th January, 2021.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January 2021
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
7- B 82093 - 353 (01/2021)
Page Page
Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... —
Miscellaneous Notices .... 8
N.B.—Part I : III and III  of the Gazette No. 2209 of 01.01.2021 were not published.


<!-- page 2 -->

8
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021.01'08
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka - 08.01.2021
miscellaneous notices
PRINTED   AT   THE   DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING,   SRI LANKA.
An AcT To IncoRPoRATe The PhARmAceuTIcAL SocIeTy of SRI LAnkA
I, Ovitigala Withanage Madhura Withanage, Member of Parliament of Sri Lanka do hereby give notice under Standing Order 
No. 53 of the Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, that I propose to introduce 
in Parliament a Bill entitled “An Act to Incorporate the Pharmaceutical Society of Sri Lanka”.
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Society which has the following general objects : -
(a)
to promote and advance the science of Pharmacy and its applications in Sri Lanka;
(b) to promote the acquiring, disseminating and interchanging of pharmaceutical knowledge;
(c) to promote education in pharmacy at all levels;
(d) to promote and encourage basic researches in pharmacy;
(e) to ensure the maintenance of high standards in the professional activities and the general conduct of its members;
(f) to liaise with other scientific and professional organizations; and
(g) to enhance the status of the profession of pharmacy in Sri Lanka.
OVITIGALA WITHANAGE MADHuRA WITHANAGE,
Member of Parliament, 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
01-146