

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
MUDITHA SOCIAL SER VICE FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION) ACT, N O . 21 OF 2007
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 21st June, 2007]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 4.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 22, 2007

<!-- page 2 -->

1Muditha Social Service Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 21 of 2007
[Certified on 21st June 2007]
L.D.—O. INC 12/2005
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  MUDITHA  SOCIAL  SERVICE  FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as “Muditha
Social Service Foundation” has heretofore been formed at
Kurunegala in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying
out and transacting all objects and matters connected with
the said Foundation, according to the rules agreed to by its
members :
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application :
BE IT THEREFORE enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Muditha Social Service
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 21 of 2007.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are the members of the
“Muditha Social Service Foundation” (hereinafter referred
to as “the Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted
members of the Corporation, hereby constituted shall be a
body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of the
“Muditha Social Service Foundation” and by that name may
sue and be sued with full power and authority to have and
use a common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to help children of any social, religious and ethnic
background ;
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation of
the Muditha
Social Service
Foundation.
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Muditha Social Service Foundation
(Incorporation) Act No. 21 of 2007
(b) to provide shelter, food, clothing, education and
securiity for the poor children ;
(c) to grant funds to establish homes for children  in Sri
Lanka and to upgrade them as V ocational Training
Centres ;
(d) to maintain the vocational training centres for the
benefit of the unemployed youths of different ethnic
and religious groups ; and
(e) to do all such other acts and things as are conducive
or incidental to the attainment of all or any of the
objects of the Corporation.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things as are
necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the
objects of the Corporation or any one of them, including the
power to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow or
raise money, with or without security, to receive or collect
grants and donations, to invest its funds and to engage, employ
and dismiss officers and servants required for the carrying
out of the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall be
administered by an Executive Committee consisting of the
office bearers and such other persons as may be provided for
in rules to be made under section 6 of this Act and elected in
accordance therewith.
(2) The first Executive Committee of the Corporation
shall be the Executive Committee of the Foundation holding
office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
General Powers
of the
Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Muditha Social Service Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 21 of 2007
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or other
written law, for all or any of the following matters :—
(a) the classification of membership and the admission,
withdrawal or expulsion of members ;
(b) the election of the office-bearers, the resignation
from, or vacation of, or removal from office of
office-bearers and their powers, conduct and duties;
(c) the election of the members of the Executive
Committee and its powers, conduct and duties and
the terms of office of the members of the Executive
Committee ;
(d) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation ;
(e) the procedure to be observed at, and the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Executive
Committee, the times, places, notices and agenda of
such meetings, the quorum therefore and the conduct
of business thereat ;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts ; and
(g) generally, for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3)  All members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Muditha Social Service Foundation
(Incorporation) Act No. 21 of 2007
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act shall be paid by the Corporation, hereby constituted
and all debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions
payable to, the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the
Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
8. The Corporation shall be capable in law to acquire
and hold any property movable or immovable which may
become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,
testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act,
and it shall have full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange
or otherwise dispose of the same.
9. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of the
President and the Secretary or the Treasurer who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence and
such signing shall be independent of the signing of any person
as a witness.
10. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic, or of any body politic or corporate,
or of any other persons.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Corporation may
hold property
movable and
immovable.
The seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Foundation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMATION ,  NO .  163,  KIRULAPONA   MAWATHA ,  POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05  before
  15th December each year in respect of the year following.