

<!-- page 1 -->

MAWATHAGAMA  DEVELOPMENT  FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)  ACT,  No. 13 OF 1999
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
[Certified on 4 th June, 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of June 04, 1999
   PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU, COLOMBO 1
Price : Rs. 5.75 Postage : Rs. 3.50
(Internet Version)

<!-- page 2 -->

Mawathagama Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 13 of 1999
[Certified on 4th June, 1999]
L.D.–O.31/96.
A N   ACT   TO   INCORPORATE   THE   MAWATHAGAMA  DEVELOPMENT
FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the
“Mawathagama Development Foundation” has heretofore
been formed in Mawathagama for the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting all objects and matters connected
with the said Foundation according to the rules agreed to by
its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
sucessfully carried out and transacted the several objects and
matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will for the public advantage to grant such
application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :–
1. This Act may be cited as the Mawathagama
Development Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.13 of 1999.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the
Mawathagama Development Foundation (hereinafter referred
to as the “Foundation”), or shall hereafter be admitted
members of the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a
body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)
with prepetual succession, under the name and style of the
“Mawathagama Development Foundation” and by that name
may sue and be sued in all courts with full power and authority
to have, and use a common seal and alter the same at its
pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
established are hereby declared be–
(a) to improve the economic conditions of the poor ;
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation of
the Mawathagama
Development
Foundation.
General Objects
of the Corporation.
H - 022545

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Mawathagama Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 13 of 1999
(b) to assist the people engaged in the domestic
subsistance sector and the export agricultural sector,
and to improve productivity in such sectors ;
(c) to undertake the management of land development
and agricultural activities ;
(d) to assist and encourage, rural small industries and
the generation of self employment ;
(e) to encourage and provide incentives to the poor to
be self reliant ;
(f)to contribute actively for the realization of the
objectives of the national  programme called and
known as Samurdhi Movement for alleviation of
poverty ;
(g) to enthuse the public in the malter of primary health
care, and to provide advise thereon ;
(h) to improve health and nutrition levels, through social
activation projects and to provide assistance for
social welfare activities ;
(i)to provide financial assistance and advice, for the
supply of drinking water ;
(j)to provide advice and assistance to low income rural
poor, in matters relating to housing ;
(k) to educate the public on the ill-effects of liquor, drugs
and smoking, and to free people from addiction
thereto ;
(l)to implement programmes for the protection of the
basic values of indigenous culture ;
(m) to educate the public on the values of rural culture
in order to ensure a desirable social order ;
(n) to implement cultural programmes centered round
places of religious worship ;
(o) to implement programmes which highlight
indigenous cultural values at national and religious
festivals ;

<!-- page 4 -->

Mawathagama Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 13 of 1999
(p) to encourage, through various programmes, the
development of indigenous cultural values which
have hithereto suffered deterioration ;
(q) to contribute, encourage and implement,
programmes to uplift pre-school education ;
(r) to assist the students who sit for public examination
of the government within the formal educational
system, by holding seminars and discussions ;
(s) to implement programmes aimed at improving
literati among those students who are left behind in
the school educational system ;
(t)to assist and implement, informal educational
programmes ; and
(u) to provide library service facilities.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perfrom and execute, all such acts, matters and things as are
necessary or desirable for the promotion of furtherance of
the objects of the Corporation or any one of them, including
the power to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow
or raise money, with or without security, to receive or collect
grants and donations to enter into contracts to invest its funds,
and to engage, employ and dismiss, officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation, shall, subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, be
administered by a Board of Management consisting of the
Chairman, Vice Chairman, Honorary Secretary, Honorary
Treasurer and Three Directors elected from among the
members of the Executive Committee in accordance with the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.
General Powers of
the Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Mawathagama Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 13 of 1999
(2) The Chairman of the Corporation shall be the chief
executive of the Corporation and shall preside over all
meetings.
(3) The first Board of Management of the Corporation
shall consist of the members of the Board of Management of
the Foundation holding office on the day immediately
preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any General Meeting and by a majority of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written, law, for all or any of the following matters :–
(a) the classification of membership, the admission,
withdrawal or expulsion of members ;
(b) the election of the office bearers, the resignation
from, or vacation of, or removal from, office of office
bearers, and their powers, conduct and duties ;
(c) the election of the members of the Board of
Management and the Executive Committee and their
powers, conduct and duties, and the terms of office
of members of the Board of Management and the
Executive Committee ;
(d) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation ;
(e) the procedure to be observed and the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board of Management
and the Executive Committee, the times, places
notices and agenda of such meetings, the quorum
thereof and the conduct of business thereat ;
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Mawathagama Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 13 of 1999
(f)the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds, and
maintenance and audit of its accounts ; and
(g) generally, for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be
amended, altered, added to, or rescinded at a like meeting
and in like manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject
to rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing on
the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constiuted
and all debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable
to, the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.
8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purpose of
this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being of
the Corporation with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever except in the presence of the Chairman
and the Honorary Secretary or the Honorary Treasurer who
shall sign their names to the instrument in token of their
presence, and such signing shall be independent of the
signining of any person as a witness.
Debts due by and
payable to the
Foundation
Corporation may
hold property
movable or
immovable.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Mawathagama Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 13 of 1999
10. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate
or of any other persons, except, such as are mentioned in this
Act, and those claiming by, from, or under, them.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
any inconsistency.

<!-- page 8 -->

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of sthe Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign).
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , No. 32,TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.