

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'29
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2011
w;s úfYI
wxl 1721$8 - 2011 wf.daia;= 29 jeks i÷od - 2011'08'29
No. 1721/8  -  MONDAY ,   AUGUST  29,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
My No. : NWP/PHD/Statute 2011.
NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
North Western Provincial Housing and Construction Statute No. ......... of 2011 of the North Western Province
IT is hereby notifying that the North Western Provincial Housing and Construction Statute No. ................ of 2011 of the North
Western Province is submitted by me to the North Western Provincial Council after thirty days from today. Anyone shall
forward any matter regarding provisions made by this statute before that date to me.
K. S
ANATH NISHANTHA PERERA,
Minister of Road Development, Power,
Housing and Construction and Fisheries,
Provincial Ministry of North Western Province Road Development, Power, (North Western Province).
Housing and Construction and Fisheries,
Chilaw Road,
Pabbala,
Kakkapalliya.
NORTH WESTERN PROVINCIAL HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION
STATUTE NO. ......... OF 2011 OF THE  NORTH WESTERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
This statute is established in order to furnish housing and construction project activities and other related activities
vested in the Constitution efficiently and effectively and to establish North Western Housing and Construction Development
Fund.
North Western Province Provincial Council doth hereby impose as follows :-
1. This statute is referred to as North Western Provincial Housing and Construction Statute
No. ........... of 2011 of the North Western Provincial Council., It shall be come in to effect from the date of its
approval by the Governor of the North Western Province.
2. Objective of the statute are as follows :-
(i) To implement housing and construction activities according to National Housing Policy
of the North Western Province.
(ii) To establish Housing and Construction Development Fund.
(iii) To establish North Western Provincial Housing and Construction Department.
Name and
Effective Date.
Objective.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2011
2A
SECTION  ONE
Composition and Role of the North Western Provincial Housing and Construction Department.
3. Establishment of a North Western Provincial Department of Housing and Construction
Development for the fulfillment of the objectives indicated in the statute and implementing powers and
activities vested by it.
4. (i) The Department, unbroken and with a common seal shall act as legally competent Institution
to furnish Housing and Construction subject related activities, to take an action or maintain any action or
provide settlements for Legal Proceedings.
(ii) Administrative activities of this Department shall govern by the Provisions addressed in the
Administrative and Financial Regulations of the Government and the Provincial Council.
5. The Province shall appoint the officer with the title of “Provincial Commissioner of Housing”
for the implementation of the provisions of the Provincial Department of Housing and Construction.
6. Provincial Commissioner of Housing is the Head of this Department and he needs office staff to
furnish provisions made by the statute. All officers with the present Commissioner who held departmental
positions attached to this department shall be considered as employees appointed for this purpose. The
Commissioner is empowered to assign his powers to other officers of the Department when it dimmed
necessary.
7. Salaries and wages of the officers of the Provincial Housing and Construction Department is
expenditure for the Provincial Council Fund.
8. Functions of the Department are as follows :
(i) Develop Housing and Construction field of the North Western Province in accordance
with the National Policy and maintain activities of the Housing and Construction Fund.
(ii) Implement Provincial Housing Development Programs and Projects including Flats,
Quarters or other Housing Projects which providing Grants, Co-ordinating, Supervising
and Post Surveys.
(iii) Implementing activities related to Tenant Protecting Act and Housing Rent Act within
North Western Province.
(iv) Furnishing Construction activities related to First List 5 : 3 of Ninth Schedule in the 13
Amendment of the Constitution.
(v) Prepare Plans for Housing Development Suggestions to minimize lack of houses,
Acquisition of Properties and Receiving Bolsters.
(vi) Implementing Housing Projects for Low Income Earners.
(vii) Acquisition, Development or Rehabilitate Lands to implement Objectives of the Department.
(viii) Providing lands for persons, implement all Housing Development related activities, helping
them and Register Institutions who provide such facilities and Co-ordinate them.
(ix) Initiating Small and Middle Level Housing Projects, continuing prevailing Projects and
Supervising and Post Surveys.
(x) Other all related activities which support to fulfill Objectives of the Department.
Establish North
Western
Provincial
Housing and
Construction
Department.
Head of the
Department.
Powers set upon.
Salaries and
Wages of the
Staff.
Functions of the
Department.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'29
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2011
SECTION TWO
9. Establishing North Western Provincial Housing and Construction Development Fund.
The North Western Provincial Housing and Construction Development Fund hereinafter called
as “Fund” shall establish to easy implementation of the provincial policies. The Fund shall maintained by
the North Western Provincial Housing Department.
10. Implementing Housing and Construction Development Projects focusing by the Department
and directing to the Fund for the development of Housing and Construction field of the North Western
Province in accordance with the National Policy, co-ordinating them and fulfilling objectives of the
Department by Supervising and Post Surveying them.
11. The Department, unbroken and with a common seal shall act as legally competent Institution
to take an action or maintain any action, or provide settlements for Legal Proceedings, acquisition of
property, lands, vehicles, equipment and tools, possess them and engage them.
12. Staff of the Department shall be considered as the staff of this Fund. If special service is
needed they could get such service paying relevant payments with the recommendation of the Administrative
Board and the approval of the North Western Provincial Chief Secretary.
13. Administrative Board with seven Members hereinafter called as “Administrative Board” shall
establish to maintain the Fund and the Board should appoint by the Minister as follows :
(i) Secretary of the Ministry of Housing and Construction of North Western Province.
(ii) Secretary or nominated representative of the Ministry of Finance, of North Western
Province.
(iii) Deputy Chief Secretary (Finance) of the North Western Province.
(iv) Commissioner of North Western Provincial Co-operative Development.
(v) Three special skilled persons relating to Management, Planning and Law field that
nominated by the Minister of Provincial Housing and Construction.
14. Secretary of the Ministry of Housing and Construction of North Western Province shall be the
Chairman of the Fund.
15. Commissioner of the Ministry of Housing and Construction of North Western Province shall
be the Secretary of the Fund. He shall be the addresser of the Administrative Board Meetings of the Fund
and has no franchise.
16. Administrative Board shall appoint Committee Members and Advisory Board and they shall
appoint to responsible any task or related subject.
17. Powers vested in the Fund are as follows :-
(i) Administrative Board shall exist the powers to buy or acquire any movable or immovable
asset to fulfill the objectives of the Fund.
(ii) The Fund has powers to open, pertain or close bank accounts, receiving credits with or
without guarantee, collection of money, receiving donations or local/foreign aids.
(iii) Administrative Board shall exist the powers to implement all other related activities which
support to fulfill Objectives of the Fund.
Establishing
Fund.
Objectives and
Tasks of the
Fund.
Fund is a legally
competent
Institution.
Staff and
Specialized
Services of the
Fund.
Administrative
Board.
Chairman of the
Fund.
Secretary of the
Fund.
Powers of the
Fund.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2011
4A
18. The Accession Period of the members appointed to the Administrative Board is 03 years.
Vacancy of membership may be occuring due to completion of the period shall appoint again by the
Minister. Accession period of the Administrative Board of Members shall descend the period the Officer
serve in his Post. The appointment shall extinct after resign the Officer from his post and successor shall
appoint for that  vacancy.
19. Vacancy of membership may be occur due to completion of the appointed by the Minister
resignation of the post, dismiss by the Minister with is discretion and the minister should fill these
Vacancies. Any member other than appointment considering his official status can resign after forwarding
written request to the Minister. The Minister poses the power to dismiss any membership other than virtue
Official and the vacancy shall fill up by the next member prior to the resigning member.
20. Minister of the Parliament or Minister of the Provincial Council or Member of the Local
Government is not suitable for appoint as the member of this Administrative Board.
21. Secretary shall responsible for daily administrative tasks of the Fund. Secretary shall implement
following activities under other provisions of the Fund.
(i) Organizing services requried for the purpose of furnishing Objectives of the Fund, taking
legal actions.
(ii) Implementing and furnishing activities and tasks provided to the Secretary by the
Administrative Board.
22. Chairman shall be the presiding officer of the Administrative Board Meetings. If Chairman is
absent temporarily appointed member shall be the presiding officer.
23. Chief Secretary of the North Western Province shall approve the allowances of the
Administrative Board under recommendation of the Secretary of the Ministry.
24. (i) Committee should meet at least one month. Additional meeting can be called by the Chairman
if necessary.
(ii) If four or more members request to call a meeting Chairman shall order the Secretary to hold a
special meeting with 07 days of that request.
(iii) Decisions made by the Administrative Board shall be the priority of the votes. If they vote pro
and con same the presiding officer shall vote such situations as crucial vote.
(iv) Rules of procedure shall prepare under provisions and regulations of the Statute to implement
meetings of the Administrative Board. All minutes shall be registered and all presenting members should
sign the registry.
(v) Any decision made by the Administrative Board shall not be void due to an error of appointment
of the Chairman or any committee member.
25. The Committee consists as follows :
(i) Money provided timely by the North Western Provincial Council.
(ii) Money provided timely by the Treasury.
Accession
Period.
Resigning
Members of the
Administrative
Board.
Unsuitable
Members.
Role of the
Secretary of the
Fund.
Presiding Officer
of the
Administrative
Board.
Allowances of
the
Administrative
Board.
Administrative
Board Meetings.
Composition of
the Fund.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'29
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2011
(iii) Decentralized Budget Allocations of the Ministers of Parliament and the Provincial Council.
(iv) Cash received from Exhibitions, Sales Outlets, Lotteries or such kind of things.
(v) Payments received from the Housing Rent Act, No. 7 of 1972.
(vi) Rental or Interests.
(vii) Money Received implementing powers vested in the Fund.
(viii) Legally received Donations, Funds or Grants from locally or foreign and movable and
immovable assets.
(ix) Money or movable or immovable assets conferring by the Line Ministry or related
Institution, Government Department, State Co-operation or other Institution.
(x) Money provided by the Local Government Institutions.
26. All expenditure used to fulfill the objectives of the Fund and implement the powers of the Fund
shall be cost to the Fund.
27. Money received for the Fund shall save one or more Bank Accounts.
28. Funds shall used for implementing the objectives and powers of the Fund with the approval of
the Administrative Board.
29. Administrative Board shall keep accounts of income and Expenditures and all transactions for
each year, and prepare Annual Cash Statement of the project activities.
30. Circulation Year shall be 01 of January to 31 December.
31. Administrative Board shall prepare and publish Annual Accounts Report for each year. The
Accounts Report shall incur to audit the internal Audit Section of the Provincial Council.
32. Auditor’s general shall vest the power to audit the Fund.
33. The Fund shall provide any payment decided by the Administrative Board to settle expenditures
of Auditing activites.
34. Secretary of the Fund shall submit a report of Audited Annual Accounts and implemented
activities by the Fund to the Minister with the approval of the Administrative Board and the Minister shall
submit it to the Provincial Council 06 Months prior to the circulation year.
S
ECTION  THREE
GENERAL  PROVISIONS
35. The Fund shall prepare common seal and kept it with the Secretary.
36. The seal shall not used in any letter other than in front of the Chairman, Secretary or Accountant
of the Fund, and they shall sign on that letter confirm the present of representatives.
37. Secretary shall prepare a register of letters that use common seal.
Exepnditures of
the Fund.
Account for
Fund.
Approval for
Expenditure.
Cash Account.
Circulation year.
Auditing
Accounts.
Powers of
Auditor’s General.
Cost of Auditing.
Submitting
Annual Report
to the Provincial
Council.
Common Seal.
Using the Seal.
Seal Letters.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2011
6A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
38. Minister shall issue common or specific instructions or orders time to time furnishing
responsibilities and implementing powers of his duties, Administrative Board shall bound to implement
them.
39. Minister shall prepare orders to implement objectives and provisions stated in this Statute and
to implement any task stated in this statute to furnish any order.
40. (i) All orders issued by the minister shall be published in the Gazette.
(ii) All orders published in the Gazette shall be submitted to the Approval of the Provincial
Council.
(iii) All orders which were not approvel by the Provincial Councils should be separated with out
prejudice, but any action taken under that order shall not be dissolve.
(iv) Any Order prepared by the Minister considered as dissolved shall published in the Gazette
indicating the date of dissolve it.
41. All members and officers of the Fund shall be considered as “Government Officers” under
sense of the Penal Code.
42. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhalese, Tamil and English texts of this statute,
the Sinhalese text shall prevail.
43. In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires :
1. “Provincial Council” means North Western Provincial Council.
2. “Minister” means minister of Housing and Constructions of the North Western Prvoince.
3. “Chairman” means the Housing and Construction Fund of the North Western Province.
4. “Secretary” means the Commissioner of the Housing and Construction of the North
Western Province.
5. “Fund” means Housing and Construction Development Fund of the North Western
Province.
6. “Department” means Housing and Construction Department of North Western Province.
7. “State Bank” means State Mortgage Bank, Bank of Ceylon, Peoples Bank and National
Savings Bank.
09-389
Powers of the
Minister.
Minister can
prepare orders.
Published in the
Gazette.
Officers of the
Fund considered
as Government
Officers.
Sinhalese text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Interpretation.