

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
263
wxl 2"006 - 2017 fmnrjdß ui 09 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2017'02'09
No. 2,006 – thursday ,  february 09,  2017
(Published by Authority)
PArt IV (B) — LocAL  GoVernment
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
 
Page 
Notices under the Local authorities elections Ordinance                   —
revenue & expenditure returns ... ––
budgets ... ––
Miscellaneous Notices ... 294
 
Page 
Posts - Vacant ... 264
examinations, results of examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices - calling for tenders  ... ––
Local Government Notifications ... 270
by-Laws ... ––
263
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist republic of  Sri Lanka
ImPortAnt  notIce  reGArDInG  AccePtAnce  of  notIceS 
for  PuBLIcAtIon  In  the  WeekLy  “GAzette”
atteNtiON is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-vacancies, examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 03rd March, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 09th 
february, 2017.
electronic transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”.
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
  Government Printer (Acting).
department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B.–  the list of Jurors in Kegalle district Jurisdiction area in year 2017 has been published in Part Vi of this Gazette in all Three Languages.
 

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
264
Posts – Vacant
kuruneGALA  PrADeShIyA  SABhA
recruitments on unskilled category Posts
aPPLiCatiONs are called from permanent residents within the Kurunegala Pradeshiya sabha limits who have suitable 
qualification as under mentioned Schedule for the recruitment of vacant post at Kurunegala Pradeshiya Sabha. 
 Designation No. of  Salary Scale Educational and Other
  Vacant Posts  Qualifications
Unskilled Primary  06 PA Circular No. 3/2016  At least 02 subjects should be passed in
Grade employee  PL-1- Rs. 24,250-10x250 -10x270 G. C. E. (O/L) Exam (Except Viva Subjects) 
Category Class III  10x300 -12x330 – Rs. 36,410 existing Educational Qualifications according
Works field Labourer   to the recruitment procedure is relevant to the  
     employees personally recruited for primary  
     unskilled posts on casual/substitute/contract  
     basis.
 (i) Applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka,
 (ii) applicants should be permanent residents of Kurunegala Pradeshiya sabha limits. (Permanent residence for 
03 years should be confirmed and it should be certified by the relevant Grama Seva Niladari (GSN) of the 
residential area with counter signed certificate of the relevant Divisional Secretary).
 (iii) a ge limit should not be less than 18 years old and not more than 45 years on the date of receiving applications. 
(Maximum age limit is not applicable to the applicants who presently serve in a permanent post of Provincial 
Public 
service).
  Maximum age limit is not applicable for primary semi skilled/skilled/unskilled employees personally to them, 
who recruited on causal/substitute/contract basis on the time of implementation of this recruitment procedure. 
 (iv) special attention is given for employees, those who presently serve at Kurunegala Pradeshiya sabha on 
temporary /casual/substitute/contract basis. 
 (v) applicants should be healthy and possessed a good moral character and should not be a person of an offender 
from a court under Penal Code. 
 (vi) if presently an employee of Provincial Public service and he should not be punished except an advice and 
all salary increments should be earned for the provious 05 years up to closing date receiving applications. 
 (vii) Educational Qualifications exited in the recruitment procedure before the date of implantation of primary 
unskilled, semi skilled and recruitment procedure for casual/substitute/contract employees is valid only 
personal basis to them. 
 (viii) Qualified persons will be selected through a structural interview. 
Terms of Engagement to the Service :
 (i) this post is permanent and also pensionable. 
 (ii) Eligible to the Widow/Widowers and Orphans Pension Fund. 
 (iii) appointment is under a probation period of three years. 
 (iv) in addition to terms and regulation of recruitment, all employees are liable to carry our regulation with 
accordance to the democratic establishment Code, Orders of Government departments and rules and  
regulations which issued on time to time by the North Western Provincial Council or North Western Provincial 
Public service Commission. 

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
265
Documents to be submitted with Applications.- Under mentioned copies of the certificates should be send annexed 
with the applications and original copies should be submitted at the interview : 
 (i) Birth Certificate, 
 (ii) Educational Certificates, 
 (iii) Applicant’s residential proof certificates of relevant Divisional Secretary,
 (iv) Certificates related to experience and professional qualifications. (Applicant who serve in Public or Provincial 
Public service should send their applications through  the head of the institution).
Interview will be called only for applicants who completed basic qualifications.
Method of Apply.- applicants should send their applications prepared according to the model application mentioned 
on or before 17.03.2017 by registered post of appointment on the upper left corner of the envelope. applications received 
after specified date will be rejected. 
Whole authority is empowered to the Secretary, Kurunegala Pradeshiya Sabha to delay/change the recruitments or 
to cancel or revise this notice, after calling applications or within the calling period. 
 D. D. Wickramasingha, 
 secretary, 
 Kurunegala Pradeshiya sabha.
Kurunegala Pradeshiya sabha, 
Malpitiya, boyagane,
23rd January, 2017. 
MOdeL  aPPLiCatiON 
RecRuitment foR PRimaRy Skilled/un Skilled/Semi Skilled PoSt
……………………… v acant at kuRunegala PRadeShiya Sabha
01. full Name of applicant :––––––––––––.
02. Name with initials  :––––––––––––.
03. Permanent address  :––––––––––––.
04. Permanent residing district :––––––––––––.
05. date of birth : year :––––––––––––. Month :––––––––––––. date :––––––––––––.
06. age at closing date receiving applications :    years :––––––––––––.  Months  :––––––––––––.  days :––––––––––––.
07. National identity Card No.  :––––––––––––.
08. Civil status :––––––––––––.
09. sex :––––––––––––.
10. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka ?/If citizenship by Descent or registration ? :––––––––––––.
11. Educational Qualifications (Annex the photo copies of the certificated) G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
 i ndex No. :––––––––––––. year :––––––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
266
 G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
  index No.  :––––––––––––. year  :––––––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass
12. Other Education Qualifications :––––––––––––.
13. Presently serving institute :
   (i) Presently designation :––––––––––––.
   (ii) date of appointment for that post :––––––––––––.
14. If ever convicted of any criminal offence in a court of law ? :––––––––––––.
Statement of Applicant
i, hereby certify  that the particulars mentioned in this application by me are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge. If it is discovered that the above mentioned particulars are fraud before the recruitment, I know that I am not 
suitable for this post and if it is discovered after the selection i will be dismissed without any compensation. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department for the Applicants who presently services in Government Service 
Mr./Mrs./Miss …………………………….. is serving in this institute as …………………. He/She could be/could 
not be released from the service if selected for the post. I, hereby certify that He/she have not been charged except an advice 
for the previous 05 years and I submit his/her application with my recommendation.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 signature of the head of the institution.
date  :––––––––––––.
02-502
––––––––––––––––––––
munIcIPAL  councIL  mAtALe
Post of Driver Grade - III (Preliminary Grade Skilled) in Local Government Institutes in central 
Province Public Service
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the qualified persons who are residing permanently within the Municipal Council 
area of Matale for the vacant Post of  Driver Grade III - Preliminary Grade Skilled (Motor Vehicles/Tractor Operator/Lorries/
Ambulance/Backhoe Loader Operator) in Municipal Council, Matale. 
This recruitment shall be subject to the conditions in the Service Minute of Drivers (Preliminary Grade Skilled) in 
Local Government 
institutes in Central Province which approved on 21.05.2013 by the hon. Governor of Central Province 
and the amendments issued thereto from time to time. 

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
267
Service to be recruited.- drivers' service in Local Government institutes in Central Province. Public service. 
Service Category.- Preliminary Grade Skilled.
Grade.- iii. 
Designation Number of Vacancies
driver 09
 (i) this post is permanent. 
 (ii) The pension scheme of this post shall be subject to government policies issued thereto from time to time.  
 (iii) This appointment shall be subject to 03 year probation period. The candidates recruited under the limited 
basis will be subject to 01 year testing period. 
02. Salary Scale.- rs. 25,790 -10x270 -10x300 - 10x330 - 12x350 - rs. 38,990 (PL  3-2016). (Payments as per 
salary scale in relation to the post shall be paid in terms of the Schedule II of Public Administration Circular No. 03/2016 
dated 25.02.2016). 
03. Recruitment Ratio : 
Stream Percentage
Open 70%
Limited 30%
04. Recruitment Qualifications : 
Stream Qualification Educational Qualifications Professional Qualifications Physical Fitness
Limited/Open shall have passed in  
G. C. E. (O/L) examination 
in six subjects (06) with 
two credits in not more 
than two sittings. 05 
subjects shall have been 
passed in one and the same 
sitting. 
shall have obtained a driving 
license of class a or class b in case 
of new driving license issued by 
Commissioner General of Motor 
T
raffic 
Shall have a certificate of Machine 
Operating of a government 
recognized institute (NAITA/
iCtad) is an additional 
qualification. (not les than NVQ 
level 4)
and
should posses 03 years experience 
as a driver after obtaining driving 
license (experience should be 
proven by certificates)
(i) 
shall have the physical 
and mental health to 
serve both in day and 
night and have a very 
good eye sight. 
(ii) Minimum height shall 
be at least 5 foot 2 
1/2 inches.
05. 
Scheme of Recruitment : 
Open Recruitment.- the candidates will be selected on results of a written test as mentioned in below and those who 
got maximum marks on written test shall be subjected to a practical test and selections shall be made based on the order of 
highest marks secured at the both written test and practical test. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
268
 (i) Written Examination : 
Paper Duration Total Marks Minimum 
marks requried 
to qualified
Syllabus
1. Basic knowledge on 
highway Code and Motor 
Mechanism
01 hour 100 40% a multiple choice question paper of 
the basic knowledge on Highway 
Code and Motor Mechanism
2. Basic knowledge on 
Motor Mechanism
01 hour 100 40% a multiple choice question paper 
of the basic knowledge on Motor 
Mechanism 
 (ii) Practical Test : 
Fields to be inspected Maximum limit of Marks Minimum marks required to qualified
1. Driving Skill/Machine Operating Skill 40 Those who got 40 marks or above from 
written test will be called to practical test by 
inspection panel. 
the candidates who have 
obtained highest scores will be recruited 
according to the order after checking all 
qualifications. 
2. Practical knowledge of Highway Code 40
3. Basic knowledge of Motor 
Mechanism 
20
T
otal Marks 100
Limited Recruitment.- applications are called from the candidates who already employed in a permanent post in 
Municipal Council, Matale and have qualifications to the Post of Driver under this scheme. The all other qualifications and 
conditions in this Gazette notification will be applicable for limited recruitment. After checking physical and mental fitness, 
educational, professional and general qualifications through a formal interview the candidates will be referred to structural 
interview. After that the selected candidates should be qualified from a practical test conducted by Examiner of Motor Traffic. 
the Commissioner of Local Government in Central Province has the power of appointing structural interview board. 
Other Qualifications :
 (i) Applicants should be Sri Lankan citizens,
 (ii) applicants should be permanent residents in Municipal Council area, Matale not less than for a period of 
03 years.
 (iii) shall be not less than 18 years and not more than 45 years of age as at the closing date of applications. 
(Maximum age limit shall not be applicable to limited recruitment).
 (iv) Should have an excellent knowledge of Highway Code. 
 (v) Shall have possessed each and every way all qualifications prescribed for recruitment to the post by the date 
mentioned in the Gazette notification. 
 (vi) the Municipal Commissioner of Municipal Council , Matale reserves the absolute power to delay, alter or 
cancel this notification while or after these applications are invited.
Method of Application.- Applications shall be prepared in accordance with the specimen attached to the notification 
(in a paper of a4 size) and it shall be sent by registered post to reach "Municipal Commissioner, Municipal Council, Matale" 
on or before 15th March 2017 and " the recruitment to the Post of driver - Grade iii" should be indicated at the top left 
hand corner of the envelope where applications is enclosed. (Candidates already in Municipal Council, Matale shall send 
their applications through their head of department). incomplete, unclear or applications received after closing date shall 
be rejected without any notice. 
the certified copies of following documents shall be sent with the application :
 (a) Certificate of Birth, 
 (b) Educational Certificates, 

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
269
 (c) Certificate of residence (countersigned by the divisional secretary),
 (d) Grama Niladhari Certificate obtained recently, 
 (e) Two (02) character certificates obtained recently,
 (f) Certificates to prove other qualifications,
 (g) a copy of a driving License,
 (h) a copy of a National identity Card.
 e. r. L. b. ettamPawala, 
 Municipal Commissioner,
 Municipal Council,
 Matale.
Municipal Council, Matale, 
01st february, 2017. 
sPeCiMeN aPPLiCatiON fOrM
municiPal council matale
RecRuitment to the PoSt of dRiveR gRade - iii (PReliminaRy gRade Skilled) in local goveRnment 
inStituteS in centRal PRovince Public SeRvice 
For Office use only
01. Name with initial :––––––––––––––.
02. Name in full :––––––––––––––.
03. National identity Card No. : 
04. Permanent address :––––––––––––––.
05. Sex : Male/Female :
06. date of birth :  year :  Month : date :
07. Contact Number :
08. Marital status :––––––––––––––.
09. Educational Qualifications : 
 9.1 G. C. E. (O/L) Examination : 
  (i) first attempt :  year :––––––––––––––.   index Number  :––––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subjcet Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10
  second attempt :  year :––––––––––––––.   index Number  :––––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subjcet Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
270
 (iii) G. C. E. (A/L) Examination : 
  (i) first attempt :  
   y ear :––––––––––. index Number :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
10.
 10.1 driving License Number :––––––––––––.
 10.2 date obtained :––––––––––––.
 10.3 driving License Class :––––––––––––.
11. experience :––––––––––––.
12.  Professional Qualifications :––––––––––––.
13. (i) have you ever been convicted for any offence by a 
Court of Law ? 
  (Please tick relevant cage 
  y es  No
 (ii) if yes please give particulars :––––––––––––.
14.  Certificate of the Applicant : 
 (a) i solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and accurate to the best 
of my knowledge. 
 (b) i am aware that if any particulars contained herein 
are found to be false I am liable to disqualification 
before appointment and to dismissal from service 
if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment. 
 (c) i will not change any information mentioned here 
in later. 
 –––––––––––––,
 signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––––.
15. attestation : 
applicant's signature should be attested by head of the 
School/retired Head of Government School, Grama Niladhari 
of the division, Justice of Peace, Commissioner of Oath, 
Attorney at Law or Notary Public, a Commissioned Officer 
of the 
army, Navy or air force, a permanent government or 
Local Government Staff Grade Officer in receipt of an annual 
salary of rs. 240,260 or over , the incumbent of a buddhist 
Vihara, A Nayake Buddhist Monk, the incumbent of a place 
of worship of any other religion or a religious dignitary of 
standing of any other religion. 
I certify Mr. ............................... is known to me well and 
placed his signature above in my presence. 
 ––––––––––––,
 Official Seal. 
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department for the applicants 
those who already employed in Public Service : 
this applicant Mr. ........................... is employed in this 
Department/Institute as a ........................ I hereby certify 
that he has not been subject to any disciplinary punishment 
(other than warning) and the application is recommended/
not recommended. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official seal of the 
 head of the department. 
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
Department/Institute  :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
02-702
mAtArA munIcIPAL councIL
Act, no. 17 of 1975 Graning the Issue of Licences to clubs
NOtiCe is hereby given under section (c) Chapter (6) of act, No. 17 of 1975 for the issue of licenses to clubs, the persons 
referred to in the schedule hereto against whose name the club indicated there in have sent in applications requesting issue 
of the licenses to them for the year 2017, for the conduct of clubs at the premises stated therein. 
Local Government Notifications

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
271
accordingly any person resident in close proximity to the said clubs of any person residing in the close proximity 
to the expected club premises who wish to object to the issue of licenses for the conduct of clubs at said premises, are hereby 
requested to forward their reasons for such objections in writing in duplicate, writing for weeks from the data of the publication 
of the relevant notification in the government Gazette. 
 Senaka PalliyaguRuge, 
 Municipal Commissioner, 
 Matara Municipal Council.
Municipal Council Office, 
Matara, 
17
th January,  2017.
(the schedule referred to is given below)
sCheduLe
 Applicant’ s Name Whether Secretary/ Name of Club Premises where 
  President/Manager  Club is conducted 
berty de silva samarasinghe secretary Nilmini sport Club No. 66, New tangalle road, 
    Kotuwegoda, Matara
02-324
––––––––––––––––––––––
AthurALIyA PrADeShIyA SABhA
by virtue of the powers vested in Pradeshiya sabhas by section 139 of Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987, it is hereby 
notified that Athuraliya Pradeshiya Sabha has decided to make following order. 
 K. P. Pemawathi,
 secretary, 
 athuraliya Pradeshiya sabha. 
Athuraliya Pradeshiya Sabha Office, 
athuraliya, 
25th august, 2016. 
Decision 
by virtue of the powers vested in Pradeshiya sabhas by section 139 of Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987, i, 
secretary of athuraliya Pradeshiay sabha hereby notify under sub-section (3) of section 9 of the said act, that the owner 
or resident of any residenc, building or land should submit periodical reports regarding the rental or annual valuation or the 
extent thereof for the purpose of assessment or acreage tax within the area of 
athuraliya Pradeshiya sabha. 
02-326
–––––––––––––––––––––
AGALAWAttA PrADeShIyA  SABhA
notice given under Section 24(1)(a) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, no. 15 of 1987
NOtiCe in terms of section 24(1) (a) of Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987 is given that the roads of the under mentioned 
schedule is declared as the roads belonging to the agalawatta Pradeshiya sabha in the Kaluthara district of the Western 
Provincial Council. 

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
272
this notice has been published in Gazette No. 1984 dated 09.09.2016. As no objections were submitted during the 
specified period, the roads mentioned in the Schedule will be accredited as the property of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha 
and administer same. accordingly a Gazette notification will be published for the pronunciation of the General Public. 
 lalani deePika udumulla, 
 Secretary and the Officer of Executing Powers and Duties, 
 agalawatta Pradeshiya sabha. 
at agalawatta Pradeshiya sabha, 
On 16th day of January, 2017.
rOads List – aGaLaWatta Pradeshiya sabha
Serial No. Name of Road Length
(Km.)
Breadth
(M.)
01 the road commencing in front of the house of Mr. K. V . simeon, 200 meters 
away on the Kevitiyagala Dannie Wijetilaka Mawatha which terminates close to 
Mr. K. V . Tilakarathna’s hosue
0.389 3.05
02 The Road commencing from Dannie Wijethilaka Mawatha of Kevitiyagala which 
terminates close to Mahamewna hermitage
0.272 3.65
03
the road Withanage Mawatha commencing from agalawatta Mathugama main 
road, which terminates at the land of Mr. upali salgado
0.125 3.05
04 the road deyyangodawatta commencing from agalawatta –Omatta road which 
terminates close to Mr. P.K.Chandana Kumara’s hosue
0.168 4.57
05 The Road commencing from Gorakagoda –Debarahena Road which terminates 
near Mrs. K. 
d. Niroshanie Perera’s house
0.037 3.05
06 The Road commencing from Gorakagoda – Martinwatta Road which terminates 
near Atigedipola Paddy field
0.078 3.65
07 The Road Ketekerellagahawatta commencing from Girikola Kandagala Road 
which terminates near Mr. M. 
a. Jinasena’s house
0.18 3.05
08 the road commencing from udawela –Wilegoda road which terminates near 
Mr. A. Wijesinha’s house
0.086 3.05
09 the auctioned land road commencing from udawela –Wilegoda road, which 
terminates near Mrs. Nayani Chathurika’s house
0.099 4.57
10 the road commencing from udawela –Kandagala road, which terminates near 
Mrs. d. a. d. C. Kulathunga’s house
0.27 3.05
11 the road commencing from udawela-Peellahena road, which terminates near 
Mr. b. V . Premadasa’s house
0.171 3.65
12 The Road commencing from Udawela- Gorakagoda, Martinwatta, Yatiyana 
Road, which terminates at forefront of Mr. Nimal Wijenayaka’s house
0.1 3.65
13
the road Godewatta commencing from helamba Millagahawatta road which 
terminates near Mr. t. d. Wasantha’s house
0.4 4.57
14 The Road AilakandaPeellahena commencing from Diyapaththugama – Ailakanda 
road, which terminates near Mrs. GunawathieWelgama’s house
0.15 3.05
15 the road close to helamba stony area commencing from helamba –Weligodella 
stony ridge, which terminates near Mr. Sujeewa Kumara’s house
0.095 3.05
02-328

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
273
ArAchchIkAttuWA  PrADeShIyA  SABhA
order to Supply terminal reports
GeNeraL Public is hereby informed that, by virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya sabhas, vide Para 139 of Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, Arachchikattuwa Pradeshiya Sabha has decided to make the following order dated 18.01.2017.
 a. f. P. feRnando,  
 secretary, 
 Arachchikattuwa Pradeshiya Sabha.
deCisiON
"by virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya sabhas, vide Paragraph 139 of Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987, 
under the powers vested in me in terms of sub Para (3) of Paragraph 9, i as secretary of the Pradeshiya sabha have decided 
to order the owner and resident of a property to submit terminal reports regarding the rent or its extent to enable assessment 
of annual value of a house building, land or tenement within the area of authority for revenue assessment purposes".
02-458
––––––––––––––––––
PoLGAhAWeLA  PrADeShIyA  SABhA
PROVINCIAL Council (Consequential Provinces) Act, No. 12 of 1989 read with Section II. It is hereby notified according 
to the statement of 24(1) in the Provincial act, No. 15 of 1987, that the roads published in the Gazette No. 1975, dated 
08.07.2016 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, mentioned in the Schedule therein were declared as a part 
of roads belonging to Kulipitiya dewata road in 239 Kulipitiya North Grama sewa division according to Plan No. 7867, 
dated 15.10.2015 and imbulanathalawathegedara road in 890 imbulana Grama sewa division according to Plan No. 7815, 
dated 12.11.2015. hence, no action has been responded according to the section 24(2) of the Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 
of 1987 within this period as per the declaration of the Gazette Notification. I do hereby declare to the General Public that the 
roads mentioned in the following schedule are belonging to the Polgahawela Pradeshiya sabha and maintained thereafter. 
   J. m. nimal JayaSinghe, 
   secretary, 
   Pradeshiya sabha, Polgahawela. 
02-342
––––––––––––––––––
WAttALA  PrADeShIyA  SABhA
cattle Butcher ordinance 
it is hereby noticed that the persons and the new places mentioned in the following schedule, forwarded to obtain the license 
to sell beef, bacon, mutton in the year 2017 under section 7 of the cattle butcher Ordinance. 
If any person, lived within the jurisdiction of the Wattala Pradeshiya Sabha, object for issuing of this license he or 
she should forward their objection in two copies with the reasons for his or her objection, within 14 days after publishing 
this notice in the Gazette by registered post to me. 
 K. h. s. iRangani,
 Secretary and the Officer who Implement the powers,
  duties and functions,
 Wattala Pradeshiya sabha.
Head office of the Wattala Pradeshiya Sabha, 
16th January, 2017.

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
274
sCheduLe
 Serial Name and Place of the owner Type of meat 
 No.  being sold
 01 Shirly Perera, No. 632/2, Hendala Road, Hendala Beef/Mutton
 02 G. D. Jayathilake, No. 402/B, Hendala Road, Hendala Chicken
 03 Prabath, No. 400/A, Hendala Road, Hendala Bacon
 04 M. N. A. Salami, No. 47/A, Bunt Road Mabola, Wattala Chicken
 05 M. N. A Salami, No. 84, Thimbirigasyaya, Hendala Road, Hendala Chicken
 06 M. N. A. Salami, No. 240/2, Hendala Road, Hendala Chicken
 07 D.L. Antony, No. 190, Kerawalapitiya, Hendala Beef/Chicken
 08 d. W. t. Madhushan, alwis town, hendala bacon
 09 A. Priyadarshana Mendis, No. 139/1, Weliamuna, Hendala Chicken
 10 Chaminda Pushpa Kumara, No. 43, Hekitta Road, Wattala Beef
 11 K. d. dinesh Pradeep, Wella road, hendala bacon
 12 S. N. J. L. B. Dias, No. 14, Handloom Houses, Hekitta, Wattala Sashwan
 13 W. D. Chrishan Rathnasekara, No. 25, Churchgarden, Hendala Chicken
 14 R. H. G. Silva, No. 57/A, Church Road, Churchgarden, Hendala Chicken
 15 K. W.S. Renganadan, No. 124/8, Balagala Road, Hendala Chicken
 16 T. D. Judge Wangar, Near toddy tavern, Uswatakeiyawa Beef/Bacon
 17 L. D. S. N. K. Nanayakkara, No. 15/A, Bopitiya Chicken near BopitiyaWeekfair
 18 K. A.D. Avanthi Dilukshika, No. 15, Bopitiya Chicken near BopitiyaWeekfair
 19 Lenard Antony, No. 364/A, Negombo Road, Welisara Beef-Welisara junction 
 20 e. r. N.silva, elapitiwala, ragama beef 
 21 M. R. M. Khan, Keragapokuna, Ragama Mutton, Keragapokuna
 22 M. R. M. Khan, Keragapokuna, Ragama Beef
 23 M. R. M. Khan, Keragapokuna, Ragama Chicken
 24 J. M. D. Nimal, No. 447, Heenkenda, Ragama Jayamanna shop - Beef
 25 J. M. D.Nimal, No. 447, Heenkenda, Ragama Jayamanna shop - Chicken
 26 S. Ahamad Mohedeen, No. 617, Keragapokuna,Mattumagala, Ragama Chicken
 27 Economic Centre –C/24, Economic Centre,Welisara Chicken
 28 S. D. Micheal Karunarathne, No. 39/1, Kurukulawa, Ragama Chicken
 29 S. D. Micheal Karunarathne, No. 39/2, Kurukulawa, Ragama Bacon
 30 H. P. N. Mendis, No. 186, Mahabage, Ragama Chicken
 31 E. Chitra Fernando, No. 76/42, Thotupala Road, Ragama Elapitiwala Bacon Shop
 32 N. D. P. Cooray, No. 357/14, Heenkenda, Ragama Bacon
 33 N. D.  P. Cooray, No. 357/14/1, Heenkenda, Ragama Chicken
 34 S. M. S. Iqbal, No. 830/1, Sri Sumangala Mawatha, Mattumagala, Ragama Chicken
02-362

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
275
PoLGAhAWeLA PrADeShIyA SABhA
By-laws
by virtue of powers vested under sub-section (3) of section 9 of Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987, i Jayasinghe 
Mudiyanselage Nimal Jayasinghe, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha Polgahawela and officer of executing powers 
and duties of the Pradeshiya sabha do hereby determine under resolution No. 01-24 dated 30.03.2016 that the by-law on 
Offensive, Dangerous and Offensive and Dangerous Trades, By-law on itinerant Vendors, By-law on parking vehicles within 
the area of authority of Pradeshiya sabha, by-law on destruction of Mosquitoes and disease causing insects within the area 
of authority of Pradeshiya sabha, by-law on decorating roads and thoroughfares, by-law on lodging houses, compiled by 
the Hon. Minister in charge of the subject of Local Government in the North Western Province in terms of Section 2 of 
Provincial Council (incidental Provisions) act, No. 12 of 1989 to be read with section 2 of Local Government ( standard 
by-law) act, No.  06 of 1952, and published in Gazette paper dated 16.07.2010, should be implemented within the area of 
authority of Pradeshiya sabha, Polgahawela. 
 
 secretary, 
 Pradeshiya sabha, Polgahawela. 
Pradeshiya sabha, Polgahawela, 
01st July, 2016.
resOLutiON 
by virtue of powers vested in me under sub-section (3) of section 9 of Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987 
and provisions of section 3 of Local Government ( standard by-law) act, No. 06 of 1952, i determine that the by-law on, 
Offensive, Dangerous and Offensive and Dangerous Trades, By-law on Itinerant Vendors, By-law on Parking Vehicles within 
the area of authority of Pradeshiya sabha, by-law on destruction of Mosquitoes and disease causing insects within the area 
of authority of Pradeshiya sabha, by-law on decorating roads and thoroughfares, by-law on lodging houses, compiled by 
the Hon. Minister in charge of the subject of Local Government in the North Western Province by virtue of powers vested in 
him under paragraph (a) of 
sub-section (1) of section (2) of Provincial Council (incidental Provisions) act, No. 12 of 1989 
to be read with Chaper 261, sub section (1) of section (2) of Local Government ( standard by-law) act, No.  06 of 1952, 
and published in section iV(b) of Gazette paper No. 1663 dated 16.07.2010, of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
should be implemented within the area of authority of Pradeshiya sabha, Polgahawela. 
by-lawS on offenSive, dangeRouS and offenSive and dangeRouS tRadeS
1. In these By-laws, “Offensive, Dangerous and Offensive and Dangerous Trades” means trades specified on a resolution 
moved by the Pradeshiya Sabha and specifically specified in the Schedule I, to these By-laws. 
2.
 these by-laws are enacted for the purpose of regulating, supervising, controlling and administering the trades stated 
in the by-law No. 01 above. 
3. No person shall carry on any offensive or dangerous or an offensive and dangerous trades within the Pradeshiya sabha 
area unless he is the holder of a valid license issued in that behalf by the Chairman.
4. No person shall be entitled to obtain a license to carry on any offensive trade or a dangerous trade or an offensive and 
dangerous trade unless –
(1) the premises at which that trade is to be carried on, is recommended as suitable for that purpose by the Medical 
Officer of Health or any officer authorized by him ;
(2) the premises and or any building which is to be used for the purpose of that trade is in comformity with the 
following condition :

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
276
 (a) the premises must be maintained in good condition and well ventilated and well lighted. every room must be 
provided with window capable of being opened and the area of which open must not be less than one fifteenth 
of the floor area. 
 (b) Every part of the walls of every room must be not less than 2.14 meters in height and must be built of bricks, 
stones, kabok or cement blocks. The internal surface of the walls must be plastered in cement at least 2 meters 
high from the floor level and it is sufficient if the rest of the internal surface is lime –plastered and lime washed. 
 (c) all eaves must be more than 2 meters in height from the ground. 
 (d) the roof must be made of some durable material.
 (e) All the woodwork must be oiled or painted.
 (f) The entire floor must be cemented or made of an impermeable material.
 (g) the premise must be provided with adequate drainage.
 (h) The premises must be provided with sanitary dust bins and with sufficient latrine facilities. 
 (i) t he internal wiring and necessary safety precautions installed in the building of the premises should have been 
approved by an Electrical Superintendent or a Technical Officer who is professionally trained in that behalf 
any officer authorized by the Chairman. 
5.
 every license issued under by-law No. 3 shall expire on the 31 st of december in the relevant year. however, the 
Chairman has the right to cancel this license if there is a breach of any condition imposed under these by-laws for the 
purpose of carrying on the trade. before exercising this right the license holder must be given an opportunity to give 
explanations. 
6. (i) Every license holder shall keep stored all materials required for carrying on the trade, in such a way as to prevent 
any effluvia or any other nuisance. 
 (ii) In case materials which are likely to cause any nuisance or effluvia are transported along a public place or a 
thoroughfare, every license holder shall cause them to be carried in covered and non-absorbent receptacles so as 
to prevent causing any nuisance. 
 (iii) every license holder shall cause any offensive vapors or gases emitted during any process of manufacture, to be 
discharged into external air, in such a manner and at such height as to admit of their diffusion without injurious 
or offensive effects or shall be passed directly through fire or a condensing apparatus. 
 (iv) every license holder shall provide adequate drains for the premises in which the trade is carried on and cause to 
maintain them well and to wash them daily. 
 (v) Every license holder shall cause the floors of the premises in which the trade is carried on to be constructed of 
some impermeable materials and to be maintained in a proper condition and to be cleaned daily. 
 (vi) Every license holder shall keep the walls of the premises in which the trade is carried on, in good order, so as to 
prevent absorption of filth and shall paint them annually. 
 (vii) Every license holder shall cause all apparatus including implements and vessels used in such trade to be kept 
clean and to be cleaned daily. 
 (viii) every license holder shall cause all garbage, together with waste and by products swept to be removed daily from 
the premises in covered receptacles, unless they are used forthwith for further trade processes on such premises.
 (ix) Every license holder shall cause the tanks used for washing or soaking skins or any other materials to be emptied 
and cleaned as often as may be necessary to prevent effluvia. 

<!-- page 15 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
277
 (x) No license holder shall pollute any river, stream, canal, sluice, well, tank, channel, sea or any open stretch of 
water by discharging there into or causing to flow there into, any foul, ill-smelling or offensive water or other 
fluid or by washing any offensive substance or in any other way pollute or contaminate such river, stream, canal, 
sluice, well, tank, channel, sea or open stretch of water. 
7.
 It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any other officer of the PradeshiyaSabha generally or specially authorized 
in that behalf by the Chairman, at all reasonable times to enter and inspect any premises in which any offensive or 
dangerous trade or any offensive and dangerous trade is being carried on and the license holder or person in charge 
of such premises shall permit such inspection to be made. 
8,
 When it is revealed at an examination that any licensed premises is not conforming to the provisions of these by-laws, 
it shall be lawful for the Chairman to inform the license holder, in writing, to fulfill the requirements within a specified 
time, in order to make such premises conforming to the provisions of these By-laws. Further the license holder shall 
act, immediately after the receipt of that notice, in terms of the provisions of such notice. 
9. Offensive trades, dangerous trades and offensive and dangerous trades, determined by the Pradeshiyasabha have been 
included in the schedule (i), (ii) and (iii) respectively. 
10. it shall be the responsibility of the Chairman, within 30 days from the receipt of an application submitted by any 
person for obtaining a license, under these by-laws for the purpose of carrying on any trade, to issue the license of 
the premises is in conformity with these By-laws, or to inform the applicant, if the application is rejected, together 
with reasons for ejection. 
11.
 It shall be lawful to take action under Section 122(2) of the PradeshiyaSabha Act, in respect of any breach of these 
by-laws.
12. in these by-laws unless the context requires otherwise –
“Person” means an incorporated or non-incorporated body of persons. 
“Person in charge of administration” means any person in charge any security person any person who guards the 
property, any manager or any other person who is vested with the organization administrating or management of 
any trade, on behalf of any person. 
“License holder” means any person who has been issued a license under these by-laws for carrying on any trade. 
“Chairman” means the chairman of the Pradeshiya sabha.
Schedule i –offenSive tRadeS
 01.  Purifying or storing graphite
 02.  Manufacture or storing manure or chemical manure for sale
 03. Curing leather
 04. storing leather for sale
 05. Animal husbandry (for meat, milk or eggs)
 06. Manufacture of Maldives fish
 07. Manufacture of rubber and storing rubber sheets
 08. running a veterinary hospital
 09. storing perishable food and food stuff for wholesale
 10. Storing dried fish, salted fish or jadi more than 150kgs.
 11. Making jadi from meat or fish, drying and icing

<!-- page 16 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
278
 12. Manufacture of coconut coal or timber coal
 13. drying tobacco
 14. Manufacture of animal food
 15. Manufacture of punnac
 16. fermentation of animal meat or animal blood
 17. Manufacture of soap
 18. Grinding and storing of animal bones
 19. Making trunk boxes
 20. storing new or old metal
 21. storing metal scrapes
 22. Manufacture of furniture
 23. Manufacture of cane products
 24. running a carpenter factory
 25. Manufacture of syrups or fruit juices
 26. Manufacture of sweets
 27. Soaking coconut husks
 28. Manufacture of brushes (other than tooth brushes)
 29. Collecting toddy 
 30. Manufacture of vinegar
 31. sawing timber
 32. Manufacture of paints, varnish or distemper
 33. Manufacture of soda
 34. Dying fiber
 35. Manufacture of leather products
 36. Tinning fruits, fish or other product
 37. Grinding coffee and grains
 38. Manufacture of baking powder
 39. Manufacture of gas mantel
 40. Manufacture of potty
 41. Manufacture of candles
 42. Manufacture of camphor
 43. Manufacture of writing ink, printing ink and stencil ink
 44. Manufacture of washing blue
 45. Manufacture of sealing wax
 46. Manufacture of perfumes
 47. Manufacture of school chalk
 48. Manufacture of tires or tubes
 49. retreading tires
 50. Vulcanizing tires or tubes
 51. Manufacture of cement 
 52. Manufacture of cement products or asbestos
 53. Manufacture of sand paper
 54. Manufacture of plastic ware
 55. Kilning bricks
 56. Mechanized weaving of textiles
 57. Manufacture of acids and refill
 58. Manufacture of roofing tiles
 59. Cleaning and selling gunny bags contained manure, 
lime powder or other products
 60. Manufacture of mechanized cement blocks
Schedule ii - dangeRouS buSineSSeS
 01. b lasting or mining matel
 02. Manufacture of vegetable oil
 03. Manufacture of coconut oil
 04. Manufacture or storing matches
 05. Manufacture of methylated sprits
 06. Manufacture of tea boxes
 07. Manufacture of coir or other products
 08. Manufacture coir or other products
 09. storing hey
 10. storing used garments
 11. Manufacture and repair of jewelries
 12. Mechanized timber sawing
 13. Mining lime or quartz
 14. running a smithy by using machines
 15. storing empty gunny bags and empty bottles
 16. repair of bicycles and motor bicycles
 17. storing used papers and newspapers
 18. spray printing
 19. Storing firewords or crackers
 20. Manufacture of metal products (Machineries, tools)
Schedule iii - offenSive and dangeRouS buSineSSeS
 01. Purifying mica
 02. Processing cinnamon, cloves, cardamom or other spice 
by using ehcmicals
 03. dry cleaning or dying
 04. Fabric printing, dying or bathik
 05. e lectroplating 
 06. Manufacture of oil or animal fat
 07.  Kilning lime or quartz
 08. Manufacture of fireworks or crackers
 09. Processing cod-liver oil
 10. Making boats
 11. recharging or repair of batteries
 12. Welding metals
 13. repair of motor vehicles 
 14. servicing motor vehicles
 15. scraping metal by machines
 16. running a casting shed
 17. running a tin workshop
 18. Making bodies for motor vehicles 
 19. Manufacture or refil l of pesticides, fungicides, 
weedicide and insecticides 
 20. Manufacture of disinfectors
 21. Manufacture of mosquito coils

<!-- page 17 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
279
PRadeShiya Sabha Polgahawela - by lawS Relating to itineRant vendoRS 
01. t hese by-laws are enacted for the purpose of regulating, controlling and administering the itinerant vendors within 
the administration limits of the Pradeshiya sabha. 
02. A person shall not engage in hawking or selling activities as an itinerant vendoer within the administrative limits of 
the Pradeshiya sabha, unless he possess the itinerant Vendors License and the identity Card issued by the Chairman 
or an officer authorized by the Chairman, in terms of these By-laws. 
03. t he itinerant Vendors License mentioned in by-law No. 02 shall be conformity with the schedule 02 and the application 
for the license should be submitted in accordance with the schedule 01. 
04. (1) every license issued under by-law No. 02 above, unless not cancelled earlier shall be in  operation until 31st of 
december of the year in respect of which it is issued. the licensing authority has the power to cancel license, so 
issued at any time, for breach of the provisions of the by-law and also to re issue the same. 
 (2) A temporary license issued for a limited period of time, shall be valid only for the time period specified in that 
license. 
05. for any reason whatsoever, licenses and identity card obtained under by-law No. 02 above shall not be transferrable. 
06. every itinerant vendor, at times when he is engaged in business activities shall wear the identity card issued by the 
Chairman, to be clearly visible. 
07. Chairman has the power to impose conditions which he thinks appropriate, in respect of every license issued by him. 
08. for obtaining license under these by-laws, a fee should be paid, in accordance witth the amounts of fees determined 
by the Pradeshiya sabha on a resolution. 
09. e very licensed itinerant vendor shall do his selling activities within the time period of 6.00 a. m. to 10.00 p. m. however, 
this time limits may be changed during special festival occasions by the Chairman.
10. any license holder or his representative shall not spend time residing inside the mobile trade stall or near thatafter 
business hours. 
11. If mobile trade stalls are used, neither cooking nor preparation of food be done, in any manner whatsoever, inside the 
trade stalls or in the vicinity.
12. Where, food stuffs are hawked for sale, all foodstuffs shall be kept covered under hygienic conditions and suitable 
utensils, spoons ect. shall be used for serving the foodstuffs and also the foodstuffs shall be hawked for sale in 
conformity with the provisions of the food act.
13. Meat of animals mentioned in the butchers Ordinance shall not be sold by itinerant vendors.
14. if the license holder is suffering from an infectious disease he shall refrain from engaging in business activities and 
also he shall not employ a person suffering from an infectious disease for that purpose.
15. Chairman shall prohibit the sale by an itinerant vendor of any foodstuff or any other stuff, which has been prepared in 
an area where any infectious disease is spreading or where an infectious disease has already spread.
16. Waste and waste water shall not be released to public places and arrangements shall have to be made for that purpose 
in a manner which lead to the satisfaction of the Chairman.

<!-- page 18 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
280
17. a systematic arrangement shall be made and followed by the itinerant vendor himself, with the concurrence of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha for the purpose of disposing garbage, waste and waste water generated by the itinerant hawking.
18. License holder shall submit the license and the identity card when asked for, by an authorized officer of the Pradeshiya 
sabha.
19. Hawking shall be prohibited in the premises of the public market. Hawking by waiting at a certain place for a long 
time shall not be allowed.
20. if a license has been cancelled by a Court of Law, the relevant license must be returned to the Chairman, forthwith.
21. It shall be lawful to take action under Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, with regard to hawking without a 
license and an identity card issued by the Pradeshiya sabha and with regard to violation of this by-law.
 i n these by-laws, unless the context. Otherwise requires,
 ‘‘Authorized Officer’’ means an officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha, authorized by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha, 
in writing.
 ‘‘Itinerant hawking’’ means Hawking for sale, by walking by using a bicycle, motor bicycle, motor vehicles, cart, 
wheeled trade stall or an animal.
 ‘‘sabha’’ means the relevant Pradeshiya sabha, and
 ‘‘Chairman’’ means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya sabha.
SCHEDulE No. 01
Itinerant vendors license
This license is issued to the under mentioned person for functioning as an itinerant vendor within the limits, subject 
to the fulfilment of following conditions:
 1. full name :............................
 2. address :............................
 3. National identity Card Number :............................
 4. Kind of hawking or selling :............................
 5. Limits within which the hawking or selling will be carried out :............................
 6. amount of the payment :............................   date :............................  bill number :............................
 7. Number of license :............................
Conditions
 1. Wearing a uniform 
 2. Wearing of the identity Card to be visible to the general public  
 3. Refraining from the use of alcohol and smoking  
 4. Not hawking or selling at the entrance doors and flight of steps  
 5. behave in a polite and disciplined manner  
 6. Putting the refuse thrown by the people into garbage bins  
 7. Paying monthly trade fee before the 10th of month  
 8. Tools such as knives, should not be used so as to exhibit to the public. (volation of the above conditions or non-
payment of amounts, during the prescribed time will cause to cancel the permit).

<!-- page 19 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
281
SCHEDulE No. 02
Application for Registration as Itinerant vendor
 1. full name :............................
 2. address :............................
 3. National identity Card Number :............................
 4. Kind of hawking or selling :............................
 5. How ling, has been functioning as an Itinerant Vendor ? :............................
 6. Old Identity Card Number/Old License Number :............................
 7. if there is any ownership of permanent trade stalls within the town limits, the number of the trade stall and the 
assessment Number :............................
I hereby certify that the above particulars are true and. I request to register me as a itinerant vendor, subject to the 
promise that goods permitted for sale Pradeshiya Sabha shall not be sold, that I will act according to the decision taken by 
the Pradeshiya sabha and that shall not consider the permission for registration as an itinerant vendor, as a right.
 ––––––––––––––––––––,
 signature of the applicant.
date :............................
PaRking of vehicleS within the aRea of authoRity of PRadeShiya Sabha
01. These By - laws shall be known as By -laws relating to the establishment of public parking lots for vehicles within the 
Pradeshiya sabha area and the regulation control and administration of vehicle thereon.
02. (1) the Chairman of the Pradeshiya sabha who will hereafter be referred to as the ‘‘ Chairman’’ may declare places 
suitable for parking of vehicles, within the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
 (2) The Chairman may declare any place where vehicles are prohibited to be parked, due to security reasons or other 
reasons, by exhibiting a notice in a conspicuous position to be clearly visible.
03. Where the parking of vehicles on any place is prohibited by a notice exhibited under By-law No.02(02), the driver of a 
vehicle, shall not be allowed the vehicle stand on that street or road, except for such length of time as may be necessary 
for the purpose of-
 (a) Obeying any traffic sign or notice erected or exhibited on that street or road by a competent authority or officer; 
or
 (b) Following in due order the movemnt of any traffic on that street or road, at that time; or
 (c) Allowing any person to alight from or to enter such vehicle; or
 (d) Loading goods into or unloading goods from such vehicle
04. No person shall park a vehicle  on any place reserved for parking of vehicles, unless he is in possession of a valid 
permit, issued in that behalf by the Chaiman or the secretary of the Pradeshiya sabha.
05. a fee as decided by the council on a resolution and published shall be charged for each permit issued under by-law 
No. 04.

<!-- page 20 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
282
06. a Government department or a Corporationor and incorporated body of persons may obtain a monthly or an annual 
permit mentioned in the by- law No 4 above for motor vehicles belonging to that department, or corporation or 
incorporated body of persons, as the case may be by payment of a monthly fee, to the Pradeshiya sabha, as decided 
by the Pradeshiya sabha from time to time.
07. every persons who obtains a permit under above by-laws shall display such permit in a conspicuous place within the 
vehicle so that it may be visible from outside the vehicle.
08. Where any public parking lot is reserved for any specified class or description of motor vehicles a person shall not park 
a motor vehicle belonging to that class or description, in such parking lot.
09. A person shall not park a motor vehicle in a public parking lot in such a way as to obstruct any other motor vehicle 
entering or leaving that public parking lot.
10. No vehicle shall be parked during any time other than that mentioned specifically in the permit.
11. The permit holder, when parking his vehicle, shall do so, in the way stipulated by the Pradeshiya Sabha, so that it will 
not cause obstruction to any other person, or to any public property or to any private property.
12. (1) A person shall not effect any repair to any motor vehicle parked in a public parking lot unless such repair is 
essential for the purpose of removing the vehicle from the public parking lot.
 (2) a person shall refrain from any act which would cause disorder or which would be harmful to ethnical behavior.
 (3) A person shall not keep the engine started of a vehicle parked in a public parking lot in such a way that it will cause 
an unusual noise.
 (4) A person shall not wash or cause to be washed any motor vehicle while it is parked in a public parking lot.
13. The owner or driver of any motor vehicle parked in a public parking lot shall, whenever requested by a police officer 
or a Traffic Warden, produce for inspection that permit issued in respect of that vehicle.
14. In respect of parking vehicles in any urban area, or at any specific place where people gather or in any street or a road 
situated within limits approved by the Pradeshiya sabha, a fee may be charges as decided by the Pradeshiya sabha on 
a resolution in accordance with the length of the parking time, with a view to controlling the parking time for vehicles.
15. An amount of fee may by charged as decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time from any vehicle parked on 
a street or a road within the Pradeshiya sabha area, for the purpose of earning some income.
16. When arrangements have been made for three wheelers, to be parked after obtaining a permit, no three wheelers 
shall be allowed to be parked on any public parking lot, other than the parking lot reserved for three wheelers by the 
Pradeshiya sabha.
17. In respect of three wheel vehicles parked on a public parking lot expecting hires, following terms and conditions shall 
be applicable:
 (1) If the person who makes the application for a permit referred to in By-law No. 04, not the owner of the 
vehicle, he will have to submit the concurrence of the owner of the three wheel vehicle, in writing, for the 
issue of the permit, to the Pradeshiya 
sabha.
 (2) A three wheel vehicle shall not be parked for obtaining hires on any place other than the place specially stated 
in the pemit.

<!-- page 21 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
283
 (3) hires may be obtained, on mutual agreement of three wheel drivers. if they fall to secure such agreement, 
hires have to be obtained according to the instructions given by the Chairman.
18. these by-laws shall be in operation from 6.00 a.m. to 8.00 p.m.
19. Persons who contravene these by laws shall be liable to punishment in terms of section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya 
sabha act.
 t here shall be provision to ament time limits and charges, by the chairman after obtaining the approval of the 
Pradeshiya sabha, and such amendments shall be published in Gazette –
 u nless the  context otherwise requires, in these by laws:
 ‘‘Chairman’’ means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya sabha.
 ‘‘Pradeshiya sabha’’ means the relevant Pradeshiya sabha.
 ‘‘Police Officer’’ means an officer of the Sri Lankan Police, in Uniform.
 ‘‘Motor Vehicle’’ has the same meaning as provided in the Motor Traffic Ordinance. 
 ‘‘Traffic Warden’’ means any officer or a servant of the Pradeshiya Sabha appointed to perform all duties assigned by 
the Chairman or the Secretary for the purpose of maintaining a proper control relating to the parking of vehicles.
 ‘‘secretary’’ means the secretary of the Pradeshiya sabha.
 ‘‘Public parking area for vehicles and the area where parking of vehicles is prohibited’’ means places, so prescribed by 
the Pradeshiya sabha, on a resolution.
 
by law Relating to the deStRction of moSquitoeS and dieSeaSe cauSing inSectS within the PRadeShiya Sabha
01. t hese by - laws are enacted for the purpose of improving the status of environment and the prevention of infectious 
diseases, through the destruction and suppression of mosquitoes and disease causing insects, within the Pradeshiya 
sabha area.
02. in terms of these by laws no person or individual in the Pradeshiya sabha area, shall do any activity or cause to do any 
activity or allow to do any activity which will be conductive to the growth of mosquitoes and disease causing insects.
03. Occupants of every place in the Pradeshiya sabha area, shall for the purpose of destroying mosquitoes and disease 
causing insects, cause:
 (1) all open tins, bottles, boxes, plastic cans, discarded tires, coconut shells, split coconuts and places which are 
capable of holding accumulated water, as well as any other articles, materials or vessels, found in such places, 
which are capable of holding water, to be removed or otherwise effectively disposed of.
 (2) Construction such as gutters and down pipes of buildings in residential or non- residential premises and drain 
in home gardens to be maintained systematically inspected regulary and cleared obstructions to ensure free 
flow of water.
 (3) All cisterns, tanks, and other receptacles of water in residential or non residential premises, to be maintained in 
good condition and up to date repairs and to be kept closed or covered, so as to protect them from mosquitoes 
and insects or to be kept them in such consition that breeding of mosquitoes and insects will be prevented, to 
provide safe and easy means of access for any officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha for the purpose of inspection 
and carrying out of such measure as may be necessary for preventing the breeding of mosquitoes and insects.

<!-- page 22 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
284
 (4) All wells on lands to be maintained in good condition and to be kept closed and covered and in such condition, 
as to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes and disease causing insects.
 (5) Any artificial pond which has been so, constructed as to be capable of being emptied, to clean at least once 
every week.
 (6) all the drains in home gardens and lands to be maintained regularly, in order to prevent the formation of 
pools, by accumulating water, following from them.
 (7) all shrubs undergrowth and all vegetation other than that grown for the purpose of food or ornament to be 
removed from every part of any building used for human dwelling or of any construction within a radius of 
05 meters.
 (8) all queries, gem pits, clay pots, or pots constructed for whatever any other purpose, to be maintained in such 
a way as to prevent the collection of water.
 (9) Water plants usually known as Diyaparandelpendapasi, Telpasi, Barawapasi or any plants which may from 
time to time be found to afford breeding facilities to mosquitoes and insects, to be removed and destroyed. 
the spread of any plant referred to in Para (9) of this by-law, to be prevented by the erection of suitable 
barriers to stop such plants floating down along any water cause.
 (10) All latrines in that place, including catch pits, soakage pits, seal pits and their surroundings to be maintained 
in such condition as to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes.
04. It shall lawful for the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any officer authorized by him, generally or specially in 
that behalf in writing, to enter any place on any day time within 6.00 a.m. to 6.00 p.m. and inspect that place for the 
purpose of ascertaining the following particulars.
 (1) Whether that, premises is place where mosquitoes and insects are being harbored.
 (2) Whether the requirements of by-laws have been compiled with by the occupiers of that premises.
 (3) What measures if any, are necessary for destroying and preventing the breeding of mosquitoes; and
 (4) Whether the spraying of insecticide in that premises has been done successfully.
05. (1) The Chairman or any officer specially or generally authorized by him in writing in that behalf may alter such 
inspection of as may be deemed necessary any premises by a written notice, require the owner or the occupier of 
that premises to fulfill activities necessary for the destruction of mosquitoes and disease causing insects and to 
suppress their growth in such premises.
 (2) the owner or the occupier of any premises, who has been served a notice under Para (1) above of the by-law, shall 
comply with the requirements given in that notice, within the time limits specified therein.
06. (1) No owner or occupier of any place shall dig or construct any well, tank, pond, cistern, foundation or other 
immovable receptacle for water in that place except with the written approval or the Chairman and compliance 
with any instructions which may be given by him for the prevention of breeding of mosquitoes and disease causing 
insects.
 (2) When any construction stated in Para (a) above, of this by-law is done in contravention of the provisions of the 
same by-law, the Chairman, may by writen notice served on the owner or the occupier of that place require that 
well, tank, pond, cistern, foundation or receptacle to be filled up or otherwise demolished within the time specified 
in the notice or to be altered within that time in such manner as may be set out in the notice.

<!-- page 23 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
285
07. (1) service of any notice under by-law No. 05 and 06 may be effected upon the owner or occupier of any place either 
personally or by affixing the notice to a conspicuous part of that.
 (2) Where any place is jointly occupied by two or more co-owners, each of the co-owners shall be severally liable for 
any neglect or failure to comply with the requirement of by-law No. 07 (1) and of any notice served under by-law 
No. 05 or any of them.
 (3) Where the owner or the occupier of any place on whom a notice under by-laws No. 05 and 06 has been served, 
neglects or fails to comply with the requirements of such notice within the time specified therein, the Chairman 
or the officer issued that notice or any officer authorized in that behalf, may, at any time between 6.00 a.m. and 
6.00 p.m. on any day enter the place with such assistants and servants as may be necessary and excute. or cause to 
execute or arrange to execute all work or measures specified the notice.
 (4) Where any works or measures specified in a notice served under By-laws No. 05, 06 and 07 on the owner or 
occupier of any place are executed or performed by the Chairman or an officer authorized the Chairman, the 
amounts of the expenses incurred in the execution or performance of those works or measures shall be payable 
the Chairman by such owner or the occupier within 14 days after demand made therefore from the Chairman in 
writing under his hand shall be recovered from such owner or occupier as a fine due to the Pradeshiya Sabha.
08.
 No person shall knowingly or willfully resist or obstruct the Chairman or any authorized officer in the lawful exercise 
of his duty under any of these by-laws.
09. It shall be lawful to take action in terms of Section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act with regard to the breach of 
these by-laws.
10. in these by-laws, unless the context otherwise required:
 ‘‘Owner’’ included any co-owner and lessee and any person who by whatever right is entitled to the rent or produce of 
any place.
 ‘‘Occupant’’ means the person in occupation of any place or having the charge, management or control thereof whether 
on his own account or as agent of another but does not include a lodger.
 ‘‘Authorized officer’’ means, any officer or servant of the Pradeshiya Sabha authorized in writing by the Chairman of 
the Pradeshiya sabha.
 ‘‘Pradeshiya sabha’’ means the relevant Pradeshiya sabha.
 ‘‘Chairman’’ means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya sabha.
 ‘‘Place’’ means any land, house, building or a structure and the bed of any pond, tank, lake, water course, channel or 
stream situated thereon.
 
by law Relating to decoRationS on RoadS and thoRoughfaReS within the aRea of authoRity of PRadeShiya Sabha
01. t hese by - laws are enacted for the purpose of regularizing, controlling and administrating the prevention of damage 
caused to the environment and the general public by decorations carried out on public places roads and thoroughfares 
within the Pradeshiya sabha area.
02. No person shall do decorations in any manner whatsoever in a public place or on a thoroughfare or on a road within 
the Pradeshiya sabha area, except on a permit issued by the Pradeshiya sabha, for that purpose.

<!-- page 24 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
286
03. every application for obtaining the permit referred to in the by-law No. 02 above, shall be prepared and submitted in 
accordance with the format given in the schedule i to these by-laws.
04. every application for obtaining a permit shall be submitted to the Chairman or the secretary at least three days prior to 
the date on which work on decorations are expected to be commenced. However, the Chairman or the Secretary may 
consider accepting an application not submitted within the time stated in the by law, under special circumstances and 
take necessary action.
05. Every applicant shall submit all particulars stated in the application specified in the Schedule I and in addition to them 
any information requested by the Chairman or the Secretary for the purpose of taking a decision on the application.
06. (1) every permit issued by the Pradeshiya sabha shall be in the format as shown in the schedule 02, to these                    
by-laws.
 (2) the said permit shall be valid only for the function and period for which the permit has been issued and it shall 
be subject to any suspension or cancelation.
07. the permit holder when doing all decorations shall do so, in such a manner that they shall not obstruct the movement 
of any person or group of persons walking in relevant thoroughfares and also the movement of vehicles plying out on 
those thoroughfares.
08.
 decorations shall not be carried out in a manner that will cause an insult to any person or a group of persons, directly 
or indirectly.
09. The permit shall be issued only if the Chairman or the Secretary satisfies himself to the effect that:
 (1) the permit which is to be issued shall not be used to contravene any provision of the by-laws.
 (2) as a result of activities allowed by the permit, there shall be no any loss damage or hazard caused to the 
environment or to any public property.
 (3) The applicant has taken adequate measures to protect the environment. 
10.  (1) for issuing the permit an amount of fee approved by the Pradeshiya sabha on a resolution, from time to time 
may be charged and such amounts of fee shall be published in the Gazette. 
 (2) At the time of issuing the permit, the permit holder shall make a deposit in cash with the Pradeshiya Sabha, on 
the basis of the extent of decorations that is to be carried out. the amount of deposit shall be determined by the 
Pradeshiya sabha on a resolution moved, from time to time. 
11. (1) Lit shall be lawful for the sabha to remove any decoration which have not been removed by the permit holder 
within the specified time period and to credit the amount of money deposited by the permit holder, to the Sabha 
fund, to recover the expenditure incurred by the sabha.
 (2) if a request is not submitted to return deposit during a period of six months after the decorations are removed by 
the permit holders, such deposit shall be credited to the sabha fund. 
12.  Permit holder shall not do decorations in a manner which will cause obstruction or damage to any property along the 
roads or to any person or to a group of persons who walk along those roads or to any person or to a group of persons 
who walk along those roads. if any damage is caused by such decorations, the responsibility for that damage shall be 
borne by the permit holder. 

<!-- page 25 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
287
13.  d isposal of all derrises of the decorations in a manner which will not cause any damage to the environment, shall be 
the responsibility of the permit holder. 
14. The permit holder issued by the Sabha for carrying out decorations shall be produced when asked for inspection by an 
authorized officer of the Sabha or by a Police Officer. 
15. The permit holder shall take action to remove the decorations before the lapse of date and time given for such removal, 
in the the permit.
16. A person, contravening any of these By-laws shall after conviction before a Court of competent jurisdiction, for 
committing of an offence or omission which will establish that contravention, by the Chairman or any officer authroized 
by him and be liable to punishment in terms of section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987.
17. in these by-laws unless the text otherwise requires : 
 “Decoration” means a decoration of whatever type, made of any natural artificial or any other material and//or by 
lighting devices. 
 “a person” means any individual, any group of individuals and establishment or any organization. 
 “road thoroughfares” have the meaning given them in the thoroughfares Ordinance (Chapter 193) respectively. 
 “Publish Property” includ es, all telephone posts electricity poles situated along the roads and thoroughfares and 
property in places which are commonly used by the general public, within the relevant Pradeshiya sabha area. 
 “Police Officer” means an officer of the Sri Lanka Police Service, wearing the uniform. 
 “Authorized Officer” means an officer of Sabha, authorized by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha in writing. 
 “secretary" means the secretary appointed to the Pradeshiya sabha. 
 “sabha” means the relevant Pradeshiya sabha.
 “Chairman” means the chairman of the relevant Pradeshiya sabha. 
SCHEDulE I
Application for obtaining a Permit for doing Decorations on Roads and Thoroughares
 1. a pplicant’s Name :.......................
 2. a pplicant’s address :.......................
 3. a pplicant’s telephone number  :.......................
 4. applicants National identity Card Number :.......................
 5. Name of the street or the place whose decoration will be done :.......................
 6. date on which decoration will be done :.......................
 7. Materials that will be used for decorations :.......................
 8. date on which decorations will be removed :.......................
 9. Course of action for the disposal of waste materials  :.......................
  –––––––––––––––––,
  signature. 

<!-- page 26 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
288
Inspected. I recommend that a sum of Rs. ........................... be charged as fee for decorating .................... meters/
square meters. 
  –––––––––––––––––,
  Authorized Officer. 
SCHEDulE  2
Permit for Decorating Roads and Thoroughfares 
 1. applicant's Name :.......................
 2. applicant's address :.......................
 3. applicant's telephone number  :.......................
 4. applicant's National identity Card Number :.......................
 5. Name of the street or the place whose decoration will be done :.......................
 6. date on which decoration will be done :.......................
  date on which fees were paid ..................... amount rs. ..................... bill Number ..................
  Conditions and approval : .....................................................................................................................
  ................................................................................................................................................................
  ................................................................................................................................................................
I approve the decoration on relevant road, taking into consideration the particulars and constitutions given above. 
   ......................... ......................... .........................  
   Prepared examined approved
 
by-law Relating to lodging houSeS and ReStS 
01. t hese by-laws are enacted for purpose of regulating hotels, lodging houses and rests which are being operated within 
the Pradeshiya sabha areas having been registered under the tourist development act, No. 14 of 1968 or without any 
such registration. 
02. (1) No person shall within a Pradeshiya Sabha area keep a hotel, lodging house or a rest except on a license issued 
in that behalf by the Pradeshiya sabha.
 (2) for every license issued under Para. (1) of this by-law, a fee as published in the Gazette by the sabha shall be 
paid and such license shall, unless cancelled earlier, expire on the 31st of december in each year in respect of 
which it is issued. 
 (3) e very license issued by the Pradeshiya sabha shall be in the format as shown in the schedule ‘2’, to these                     
by-laws. 
03. in every license issued under by-law No. 02(1) above, the number in single rooms and double rooms, in each lodging 
house, hotel or rest must be stated separately . also the number of occupants who could be provided with maximum 
lodging facilities in such lodging house, hotel and the rest must be stated. 
04. for obtaining a license issued under the by-law No. 02(1), an application prepared in accordance with the schedule 
'1', shall be submitted to the Chairman, together with the plan of the building. 

<!-- page 27 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
289
05. (1) No person shall be entitled to obtain a license for keeping a lodging house, unless he confirms to conditions stated 
in by-law No. 06-13.
 (2) Chairman shall inform the applicant in writing, if he refuses the application, within 6 weeks from the receipt of 
application, together with reasons for such refusal. 
06. (1) if the premises is not facing a public road, there must be a suitable access road to enter that premises. 
 (2) the building must be strongly built and must be maintained in good condition. 
 (3) the roof must be made of permanent and durable material. 
 (4) a system for disposing the daily collection of garbage inside the building must be in  operation. 
07. (1) The minimum floor area of a room meant for an occupant shall be 90 square feet and the floor area meant for one 
person in a room in which sleeping accommodation is provided to more than one person, shall be not less than 
60 square feet. 
 (2) every room must be well-ventilated and well lighted and provided with windows capable of being opened. the 
area of a window when open must be not less than one fifith of the floor area. 
 (3) in every room, the walls must be 10 feet in height from the ground. 
 
 
(4) The floor area must be made of some impermeable material which does not absorb water. 
 (5) Depending on the number of occupants, a sufficient number of beds and chairs, a table, a small rack and a mirror 
must be provided in each room
 (6) there must be a mosquito net for every bed. 
 (7) Sufficient number of clean bed spreads, pillows and pillow cases must be provided, depending on the number 
of occupants. On every occasion when occupants are changed, bed spreads and pillow cases must be changed. 
if occupants will stay for a number of days bed spreads and pillow cases must be changed at least once in four 
days. 
 (8) Doors must be provided with lock and key so as to enable them to be kept rooms closed well. 
 (9) Curtains must be fixed to windows. 
 
 (10) bins of  suitable size must be provided for putting refuse.
 (11) the walls, doors and windows of rooms must be painted. 
 (12) Suitable water for drinking and bathing purpose must be provided.
08. (1) The dinning hall must be of sufficient extent depending on the number of occupants. 
 (2) A sufficient number of dining tables and chairs must be provided. 
 (3) Walls, ceiling, doors, windows, floor furniture, fittings, etc. must be kept clean. 
09. (1) There shall be a kitchen of sufficient extent, depending on the number of occupants. 
 (2) Windows must be fixed, in such a way that there will be sufficient ventilation and light and outlets for efficient 
outflow of hot air and smoke , must be built. 

<!-- page 28 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
290
 (3) floor must be made of impermeable material which does not absorb, water and must be capable of being cleaned 
easily. 
 (4) Walls of the kitchen must be cleaned easily and their surface must be made, up to 5 feet in height of impermeable 
material which does not absorb water. 
 (5) Bins with covers must be provided for keeping waste. 
 (6) Containers with lids must be used keeping spices and food stuff. 
 (7) All drains and outlets must be kept covered and clean and waste water must be made to flow into a well covered 
water flowing pit. 
 (8) Cleanliness must be maintained at maximum level, in preparing food. 
 (9) Prepared food must be kept covered so as to protect from dust, waste and flies. 
 (10) Ceiling, walls, doors, windows and furniture of the kitchen must be kept clean regularly. 
 (11) Kitchen must be kept free from all kinds of insects, flies and animals like rats. 
10. (1) Pantry must be made in such a way to get sufficient ventilation and light. 
 (2) floor (of the pantry) must be made of some permeable material which does not absorbe water. 
 (3) Tables, utensils and food vessels must be kept clean. 
 (4) It should be kept free of insects, flies, rats etc. 
11. (1) A sufficient number of bathrooms must have been constructed. 
 (2) the floor area of every bathroom must not less than 35 squares feet. 
 (3) In every bathroom, there shall be a towel rack, soap holder, a mirror, a wash basin and bowl or pot for bathing 
water. 
 (4) There shall be drains for outflow of waste water and covered pits for collection of such water. 
12. (1) if attached toilets for each and every room, are not provided, toilets shall be provided for men and women 
separately. 
 (2) If attached toilets, for every room are not provided, at least one toilet must be provided for five occupants. 
 (3) facilities must be provided to get pipe water for toilets. 
 (4) There shall be provided sanitary buckets, soap, soap boxes and toilet paper to every toilet. 
 (5) floor and walls up to 5 feet from the ground (of the toilet) shall be made of impermeable material which does 
not absorb water and they  must be well maintained. 
 (6) There shall be a system of water pipes, in wroking order in every toilet. 
 (7) every toilet must be cleaned daily, by using sanitary materials. 
13. (1) Environment outside the building must be kept clean and free of garbage. 
 (2) Premises shall be made in such a way to function an efficient drainage. 

<!-- page 29 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
291
 (3) Well constructed pits must be used to contain waste water released from the lodging house.
 (4) Pits and lavatory pits must be maintained in such a way that there shall be no breeding of mosquitos and insects 
and there shall be precautions to prevent any emission of bad odor whatsoever. 
 (5) there shall be measures provided for burying or sanitary disposal of waste released from the lodging house. 
 (6) No animals such as poultry, cattle or pigs must be kept within the premises. 
14. (1) Prior to issue of lice nse in terms of these by-laws chairman shall send a copy of the application, within seven 
days from the receipt of it, to the Medical Officer of Health. 
 (2) It shall be the duty of the Medical Officer of Health, after every application is referred to him, to inspect the 
relevant premises and send it back to the Chairman. With his observation and recommendations. 
15. every license holder shall fix a board painted with his name and the name of the lodging house in Sinhala, Tamil and 
english languages, in a conspicuous place in front of the premises. 
16. Every license holder shall keep in a place where it is clearly visible, copies of these By-laws prepared in Sinhala, Tamil 
and english and the framed license and a list of names and addresses of all employees in the lodging house, so as to 
enable the Chairman, or a person authroized by him, to inspect the premises at reasonable times. 
17. License holder shall not allow any occupant to sleep in any room other than rooms which are specifically mentioned 
as sleeping rooms in the plan attached to the license and where the chairman has put his signature. 
18. a License holder for lodging houses shall not allow a number of persons over and above the number of persons 
specifically mentioned by the chairman as persons allowed for sleeping in a room. For the purpose of those By-laws, 
two children under the age of 10 years shall be considered as one person. 
19. License holder shall cause to fix a board in each room stating the size of the room and the number of persons allwoed 
to sleep on that room. 
20. License holder shall not allow the lodging house to be used for illegal activities and he shall maintain peace and good 
conduct in the relevant premises. 
21. every license holder shall maintain a register containing the name, place of permanent residence, occupation, National 
identity Card number and the telephone number of any, of each person staying as an occupant in the premises. 
22. every license holder shall apply some suitable paint on walls and ceiling of the building and polish the parts made of 
wood, once a year. floor must be washed and cleaned or must be polished by using some wax. 
23. Every license holder shall keep every part of the lodging house outer environment and drains in a very good condition 
and clean and shall maintain the premises free from bad smell generating from latrines, lavatory pits or a drain or from 
any other nuisance. he shall maintain furniture covers and utensils clean and in hygienic condition. 
24. Every license holder of lodging house shall cause to sweep daily every room, flight of steps, corridor, stair case, drains 
and the land of the premises. 
25. Every license holder shall cause to keep cooked food in such a manner that files and other insects will not be able to 
reach it. 
26. every license holder of a lodging house shall cause, to put all garbage, domestic, waste or any other offensive substances 
into a container which can be kept covered and also to remove them from the premises, daily. Waste containers must 
be kept covered all the time, except at the time of putting waste into it.

<!-- page 30 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
292
27. every license holder shall admit any person suffering from infectious contagious disease or any skin disease, to the 
premises. 
28. (1) License holder of lodging house, shall if any occupant in the falls sick due to an infectious and contagious disease 
or any skin disease, inform forthwith the Public Health Inspector of the division in which the lodging house is 
situated or the Chairman. Of the chairman orders to empty the lodging house, the license holder shall comply 
immediately. Further, the license holder shall take measures to destroy germs in bed spreads, clothes and other 
utensils used by the person who was subject of infection and to apply paint on the walls. 
 (2) License holder shall not admit any occupant to the lodging house stated in by-law No. 28(1), until the medical 
Office of Health or one of his assistants inspect the premises and issue a certificate to the effect that it is free from 
infection. 
29.
 every license holder shall cause to clean mats, bed spreads, pillows, mattresses, beds etc. used in the lodging hosue 
for the purpose of maintaining them in a clean and sanitary condition. 
30. (1) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha authorized by the Chairman, generally 
or specifically in writing to enter any lodging house and inspect it at all reasonable hours. 
 (2) License holder or the person in charge of the lodging house shall allow the Chairman or the officer authorized by 
him in writing to enter the lodging house and to inspect it and he shall give all assistance requried by the Chairman 
or such officers. 
31.
 it shall be lawful to act under section 12292 of the Pradeshiya sabha act, with regard to any contravention of these 
by-laws.
32. it shall be lawful to cancel the license, if these by-laws relating to lodging houses are contravened twice or more than 
twice, in addition to any other punishment that may be imposed by a Court of Law, having proper jurisdiction. 
33. unless the context requires any other meaning : 
 "Person" means a person who obtains lodging accommodation inclusive of sleeping facilities in the lodging house, by 
paying money or as a concession;
 "Ocupant" means any person who obtains lodging accommodation inclusive of sleeping facilities in the lodging house, 
by paying money or as a concession ; 
 " Pradeshiya Sabha" means relevant Pradeshiya Sabha ;
 "License holder" includes any person who is performing management functions in a lodging house or a rest, licensed 
under these By-laws ;
 "Authorized Officer" means any person authorized by the Chairman or the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha, in 
writing ;
 "Lodging house" means any place which provides sleeping accommodation with or without food, for money or any 
other charge ;
 "Chairman" means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya sabha.

<!-- page 31 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
293
SCHEDulE I
Application for Obtaining a License for a 
lodging Houses or Rest 
 01. applicant's name :..............................
 02. Private address :..............................
 03. identity Card Number :..............................
 04. Grama Niladhari division :..............................
 05. Nature of service :..............................
 06. Name of the service station :..............................
 07. Place where it is situated :..............................
 08. time during which the service is provide :.....................
 09. floor extent of the building :..............................
 10. Number of doors and windows in the building 
:..............................
 11. Length/width/height of the building :..............................
 12. Particulars of the roof (tile/asbestos/coconut thatched/
tin :..............................
 13. Particulars of the floor :..............................
 14. Of a certificate of conformation had been obtained, its 
number and date :..............................
 15. Number of employees :..............................
 16. Maximum number of persons for whom accommodation 
can be provide :..............................
 17. Number of single rooms :..............................
 18. Number of twin rooms :..............................
 19. Whether there is a toilet for every room :......................
20. Whether common toilets are separated as for men and 
women :..............................
 21. Whether containers are provided to every room 
:..............................
 22. Whther water is provided separately for bathing and 
drinking :..............................
 23. Whether water is provided for toilets :..............................
 24. if not so, what is the arrangement made to provide water 
:..............................
 25. arrangement made to dispose of waste water 
:..............................
 26. Number of fire extinguishing instruments :....................
 27. Number of water taps :..............................
 28. Number of toilets :..............................
 29. Number of urinals :..............................
 30. Floor area of the kitchen :..............................
 31. Whether following documents are exhibited on notice 
boards : 
 (i) Copy of the by-laws :..............................
 (ii) Maximum number of persons allowed for lodging 
:..............................
 (iii) register containing names and particulars of 
persons who have provided lodging register 
contains :..............................
 (iv) Notes of the inspection officer and the signature 
:..............................
 (v) Notice relating to fees and prices :.........................
 32. final date of lime washed or painted :.............................
    ––––––––––––––––,
    signature of the applicant. 
date :..............................
SCHEDuEl II
license for lodging Houses or Rest 
01. Name of the license holder :..............................
02. Name of the holding houses/rest :..............................
03. address :..............................
04. Names of the owner/manager :..............................
05. address :..............................
06. Place where situated :..............................
07. Maximum number or persons who can be accommodated 
at a time :..............................
08. Number of room :
  single :............................   twins :...........................
09. year for which permission is granted to run the lodging 
house/rest :..............................
10. date on which license fees were paid : 
  amount :.....................   License Number :......................
this lice nse will be valid till 31st of december of the 
respective year unless it is not cancelled on grounds of 
contravening these by-laws or any other reason. 
  ........................... ........................... ...........................
  Prepared examined approved
02-449

<!-- page 32 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
294
miscellaneous notices
nuWArA  eLIyA  munIcIPAL  councIL
Property Assessment tax for the year 2017
it has been decided by the decision No. 250 of 25.11.2016, that an assessment tax on the basis of the value of all immovable 
property situated within the Municipal area of Nuwara eliya Municipal Council shall be levied, as mentioned below, by 
virtue of the  Clause 230 : 252nd  Chapter of the Municipal Councils Ordinance as amended by the Municipal Councils 
amendment act, No.42 of 1942 and under the provisions contained therein, for the year 2017. hence, i hereby inform 
that the tax according to the value of all immovable property situated within the Municipal Council area of Nuwara eliya 
Municipal Council must be paid.
 2016 2017
 01 for residential Properties, bare Land, barren Land from the annual  11% 11%
  assessment value of such properties .                                                                      
 02 from the annual assessment value  of Commercial and other properties 15% 15%
 03 from the annual assessment value  for undeveloped Land properties.       –  05%
 r .M . K .r .b . Rathnayake,                                                                                                                             
 Municipal Commissioner,                                                                                                                     
 Municipal Council - Nuwara eliya.                                                                                                                                   
At  t h e  N u w a r a  E l i y a  M u n i c i p a l  C o u n c i l  O f fi c e ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
On this 29th  day of december 2016.
02-346/1
–––––––––––––––––––––––
nuWArA  eLIyA  munIcIPAL  councIL
entertainment tax -year 2017
it is hereby informed that under Section 3 (Chapter 176) of the Public Performance Ordinance, from the tickets printed 
for each show of every cinema show, carnival and all shows for which a fee  is charged, twenty five percent (25 % ) of 
the value of the tickets must be paid as entertainment tax , 25 %  maximum of the printed  value of the tickets for games 
for entertainment, events for entertainment and entertainment shows, an entertainment tax must be paid as decided by the 
consent of the Council to the proposal No. 250 of 25.11.2016.  and a further license fee  as mentioned below must be paid 
for the same.
02.Charging an entertainment tax of 25% maximum of the printed value of the tickets sold for entrance into 
entertainment shows and common special events and activities and further obtaining a public performance permit upon 
payment of fees as mentioned below.
(Subject to instances where special permission of the Municipal Council is received.)
 r .M . K .r .b . Rathnayake,                                                                                                                             
 Municipal Commissioner,                                                                                                                     
 Municipal Council - Nuwara eliya.                                                                                                                                   
A
t  t h e  N u w a r a  E l i y a  M u n i c i p a l  C o u n c i l  O f fi c e ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
On this 29th  day of december 2016.

<!-- page 33 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
295
sCheduLe
 Number of days License fee charged
for a one day programme rs. 1,000.00 +taxes approved by the government
for a programme of more than one day up to 03 days rs. 2,000.00+taxes approved by the government
for a programme of more than 03 days up to 07days rs. 3,00,0.00+taxes approved by the government                             
for all programmes exceeding 07 days rs. 5,000.00+taxes approved by the government
02-346/2
–––––––––––––––––––––
nuWArA  eLIyA  munIcIPAL  councIL
the municipal councils ordinance (chapter 252)
iN the issue of licenses by virtue of the Municipal Councils Ordinance or by laws implemented under the Ordinance, under 
the consent to the proposal No. 250 at the General Council on 25.11.2016., it has been decided that the license fee and 
relevant Government approved taxes shall be levied in accordance with the provisions of section 247 (b) of the Municipal 
Councils (amendment) act, for the businesses mentioned in the schedule below, maintained within the Municipal area of 
Nuwara eliya, in the future with effect from 01st day of January 2017 to 31st day of december 2017. accordingly, it is 
hereby informed that all permit fees must be paid before the 31st day of March in the year 2017.
 r .M . K .r .b . Rathnayake,                                                                                                                             
 Municipal Commissioner,                                                                                                                     
 Municipal Council - Nuwara eliya.       
                                                                                                                            
A
t  t h e  N u w a r a  E l i y a  M u n i c i p a l  C o u n c i l  O f fi c e ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
On this 29th  day of december, 2016.
sCheduLe
1. Licensing fees for offensive and dangerous trades under section 247 (a) of the Municipal Councils Ordinance must 
be paid for the year 2017, according to the annual assessment rate.
2. sales tax in respect of trades under section 247(b) of the Municipal Councils Ordinance must be paid for the year 
2017.
3. business tax under section 247 (c) of the Municipal Councils Ordinance must be paid for the year 2017.
4. a 0.5% tax must be paid based on the income of the last year, from business Lodgings, restaurants or hotels 
registered or recognized in or by the tourist board.
5. In respect of places not assessed, licensing fees / Tax must be paid in accordance with the temporary Assessment to 
be done by the Municipal revenue inspector.
6. if and when business activities (more than one business) are carried out under one assessment Number, the rates 
or the taxes shall be determined on an annual assessment based on the extent of space allocated to and utilized for 
each trade activity (business) and such taxes must be paid in the manner as determined.
02-346/3

<!-- page 34 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
296
nuWArA  eLIyA  munIcIPAL  councIL
Levying taxes from hotels approved by or registered in the tourist Development 
Authority of Sri Lanka - year 2017
uNder the decision No. 250 of  25.11.2016, it has been decided that an amount of  0.5% of the incomes  based on the 
income of the preceding years must be paid, by tourist hotels, restaurants or business Lodgings  used for the said purpose 
or in the instance of being registered under the Tourist Development Authority of Sri Lanka situated within Nuwaraeliya  
Municipal Limits. hence, i  hereby inform that the persons running hotels, restaurants or  Lodgings must pay the said 
amount. 
 r .M . K .r .b . Rathnayake,                                                                                                                             
 Municipal Commissioner,                                                                                                                     
 Municipal Council - Nuwara eliya.       
                                                                                                                            
A
t  t h e  N u w a r a  E l i y a  M u n i c i p a l  C o u n c i l  O f fi c e ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
On this 29th  day of december, 2016.
Government approved taxes must be paid with the following.
 Nature of Trade  Annual valuation
  
  
Not exceeding Not exceeding When exceeding
  Rs. 1,500 Rs. 2,500 Rs. 2,500
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01 Maintaining a Bakery 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 02 Maintaining a hotel 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 03 Maintaining a Tea Kiosk 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 04 Maintaining a Bakery Products and sales Centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 05 Maintaining a Snack Bar 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 06 Maintaining a sweet Meat Products & sales Centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 07 Ice Cream, Yoghurt & Milk shop 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 08 Mushroom Products  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 09 Milk Collecting Centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 10 Maintaining a Guest house not approved or registered in the 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  tourist board under the tourist development act
 11 Maintaining a Guest house , restaurant or hotel approved  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  or registered in the tourist board under the tourist 
  development act  (the year of commencement )
 12 Continuation in the year 2017 of Maintaining a Guest   an amount equal to 0.5 % of the total earnings
  house, restaurant or hotel maintained in the year 2016  received and to be received for the services and
  approved or registered in the tourist board under the   supplies rendered in the year 2016.
  tourist development act  
 13 Maintaining a barber saloon 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 14 Maintaining a Laundry 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 15 Maintaining a Grocery (spice shop) 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 16 Maintaining a Grinding Mill 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 17 storing or selling (Western) drugs  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 18 storing or selling (ayurvedic) drugs 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 19 Maintaining a foreign liquor shop, store. 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 20 Maintaining liquor shops and taverns 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 21 Maintaining a Vegetable wholesale shop 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0

<!-- page 35 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
297
 22 Sale or storing Artificial Manure and Quicklime. 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 23 sale of Pesticides and Chemicals. 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 24 Maintaining a printing press 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 25 Maintaining a Motor Car repairing Garage 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 26 Maintaining a Garage for Motor bicycle repairing 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 27 Maintaining a three Wheeler repairing Garage 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 28 Maintaining a bicycle repairing place 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 29 Maintaining a Vehicle Washing station 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 30 Maintaining a Fuel filling Station 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 31 Maintaining a Watch  repairing place 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 32 electric  equipment  repairing  place  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 33 tyres, tubes Vulcanizing place 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 34 Maintaining a Upholstering Work Shop 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 35 battery Charging Place 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 36 Maintaining a Welding Work Shop 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 37 Maintaining a mechanical timber saw mill 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 38 Maintaining a Lathe Work Shop 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 39 Maintaining a Jewellery Work Shop 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 40 Maintaining a smithy   -  With Machinery 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
                                          Without Machinery 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 41 Maintaining a shop for funeral items 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 42 Maintaining a Water bottling Centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 43 Maintaining a Wheel Alignment checking place 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 44 Maintaining a refrigerator repairing place 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 45 Maintaining a Medical Laboratory 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 46 Maintaining a Colour Laboratory 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 47 Maintaining a shop for selling and storing Gas 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 48 Maintaining a chicken selling  centre  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 49 Maintaining a fish selling  centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 50 Maintaining a beef selling  centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 51 Maintaining a pork selling  centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 52 Maintaining a mutton  selling  centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 53 Sale of frozen fish and flesh  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 54 storing and selling place of eggs  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 55 sales Center for Vegetables and fruit  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 56 Wholesale trade of cigarettes and  tobacco 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 57 Maintaining a specialist Medical Consultation Centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 58 Maintaining a private dental Clinic 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 59 Maintaining a private  Ophthalmic medical  Clinic 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 60 Maintaining a beauty salon 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 61 Maintaining a massage center 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 62 Maintaining a tea factory 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 63 Tea packing and storing place  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 64 tailoring Center or a Garment factory 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 65 selling place for cigarettes, betel  and arecanuts  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 66 Maintaining a Tinkering Work Shop 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 67 Storing packing and wholesale Sales Place for coconut oil  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 Nature of Trade  Annual valuation
  
  Not exceeding Not exceeding When exceeding
  Rs. 1,500 Rs. 2,500 Rs. 2,500
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 36 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
298
 68 Spice and Grains Packing Place  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 69 Maintaining a Granite Work Site 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 70 Maintaining a gunpowder sales center  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 71 storing and selling of Organic fertilizer 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 72 Maintaining a diary farm  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 73 repairing shoes 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 74 Maintaining a grocery 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 75 Maintaining a place for embalming dead bodies 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
busiNess LiCeNses
 01 Collecting of empty Gunny bags, bottles and debris 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 02 storage and sale of  potatoes 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 03 sale of potatoes and vegetables seeds 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 04 Maintaining a studio of  photography 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 05 running  a Motor  car sales centre  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 06 running  a Motor bicycle sales centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 07 running  a three wheeler sales centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 08 running  a foot bicycle sales centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 09 running  a Motor car spare parts sales centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 10 running  a Motor bicycle spare parts sales centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 11 running  a foot bicycle spare parts sales centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 12 Maintaining a battery sale and storage place  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 13 Maintaining a place for selling Water Pumps and spare Parts  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 14 running a household furniture shop 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 15 Maintaining a sawn timber sales depot 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 16 Maintaining a firewood hut 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 17 Maintaining a Jewellery  shop 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 18 Maintaining a textile shop 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 19 running a readymade Garments sales shop 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 20 running a Warm Clothes sales shop  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 21 Maintaining a flower sale hut 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 22 Maintaining a festival items renting Centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 23 running an electrical equipments sales shop 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 24 Maintaining hardware  sales centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 25 Maintaining a Rice Stock Storage and Sales Centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 26 Maintaining a flour storage and sale Centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 27 Maintaining an Astrology Office 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 28 Maintaining a cut flowers and Strawberry Project 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 29 Maintaining a race betting Centre  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 30 running a spectacles  sales Centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 31 Picture framing and sale of Glass 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 32 running a Weighing and  measuring equipment sales Centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 33 Place for storage and sale of Cement 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 34 sale of Cement Products 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 35 Maintaining a tyres storage and sales Centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 36 Maintaining a Centre for storage and sale of plastic stocks 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 37 running a coir associated  produce sales center 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 Nature of Trade  Annual valuation
  
  Not exceeding Not exceeding When exceeding
  Rs. 1,500 Rs. 2,500 Rs. 2,500
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 37 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
299
 38 Running a Books and stationery  Items Shop 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 39 Maintaining a News paper and Magazine sales shop 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 40 Maintaining a songs recording Place 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 41 Maintaining a Compact  disc and Video tape sales Centre  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 42 Maintaining a Computer education Centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 43 Maintaining an ointments and fancy goods  sales Centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 44 Maintaining a Nursing home 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 45 Maintaining a telecommunication Centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 46 Maintaining a Physical development Centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 47 Maintaining a billiards Playing Centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 48 Maintaining a building Material shop 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 49 Maintaining a Ceramic and earthen ware articles sales Centre  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 50 Maintaining a Joss Sticks Production and Stock Sales Centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 51 Paints storage and sales shop 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 52 Maintaining a coconut storage and sales centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 53 Maintaining a Photo Copying centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 54 Maintaining a Cinema hall 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 55 Maintaining a Lottery Tickets Sales Agency 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 56 Maintaining a Vegetable and flower Plants Nursery 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 57 Maintaining a club (With approval for registration ) 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 58 Maintaining a shop for sanitary equipment and tiles   2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 59 Maintaining a private Child education Centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 60 Maintaining a day Care  Centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 61 Maintaining a  badminton Playing Centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 62 Maintaining a  table tennis Playing Centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 63 Maintaining a private education Centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 64 Maintaining a Cookery and Cake Making Class 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 65 Maintaining an Agency Post Office  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 66 Maintaining a place making plastic name boards / notice boards 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 67 Maintaining a shop selling agricultural equipment 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 68 Maintaining a foreign employment agency 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 69 Maintaining a place selling airline tickets  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 70 Maintaining a telecommunication tower 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 71 Maintaining a place telecasting cable television 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 72 Maintaining a pawning centre for gold  jewellery 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 73 Maintaining a centre for architecture 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 74 Maintaining a centre for transport  services of goods 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 75 Maintaining a vehicle hiring institute 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 76 Maintaining a building Contract service  institute 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 77 Maintaining a driving training institute 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 78 Maintaining a shoe sales centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 79 Place for sale of types of polythene  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 80 Commercial Banks 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 81  insurance Companies  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 82 finance institutions 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 83 Place for Sale of beautiful  fish and pets 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 84 Maintaining a place for Key cutting 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 Nature of Trade  Annual valuation
  
  Not exceeding Not exceeding When exceeding
  Rs. 1,500 Rs. 2,500 Rs. 2,500
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 38 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
300
 85 running a brassware sale centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 86 running a hand phones, hand phone equipments and 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  phone cards sale centre
 87 Running a race bookie 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 88 Place for the sale of  electrical equipments and spare parts 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 89 sale of  Computers and Computer spare parts 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 90 Maintaining a place providing internet facilities 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 91 Providing of reception hall facilities 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 92 institute for Purchasing and selling  of gems 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 93 a place for the sale of rubble, metal or sand 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 94 a place for the sale of water pipe spare parts 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 95 Sale of school bags / travelling bags 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 96 Maintaining an institute for the organization of various  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  events for entertainment. 
 97 Maintaining an institution of draftsman  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 98 Maintaining an environmental, Geological engineering  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  consultation office
 99 Maintaining offices for  other consultation and management services.   
 100.  businessmen and  Professionals :
01.  a Notary Public
02.  an attorney -at-Law
03.  a Western Medical Practitioner
04.  an indigenous Medical Practitioner
05.  a Private engineer
06.  Money lenders
07.  A Pawn Broker
08.  a commission agent 
09.  advisors of  income tax or Labour Law 
10.  Auctioneers and Brokers 
1
1.  a Public surveyor 
12.  an auditor 
13.  Tourist Service Providers /Tourist Service Management institutions.
14.  account investigation service Providers
15.  exchange of money for local cheques, foreign Currency, tourist Cheques and Promissory Notes
tabLe Of fees
 Receipts in the Year  2017 Tax Payable
  Rs.  cts.
01. Not exceeding rs. 6,000.00 Not  payable
02. exceeding rs. 6,000.00  but not exceeding rs. 12,000.00 90 0
03. exceeding rs. 12,000.00  but not exceeding rs. 18,750.00 180 0
04. exceeding rs. 18,750.00  but not exceeding rs. 75,000.00 360 0
05. exceeding rs. 75,000.00  but not exceeding rs. 1,50,000.00 1,200 0
06. Not exceeding rs. 1,50,000.00 3,000 0
for the fees above, the Government approved taxes will be added.
02-346/4
 Nature of Trade  Annual valuation
  
  
Not exceeding Not exceeding When exceeding
  Rs. 1,500 Rs. 2,500 Rs. 2,500
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 39 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
301
nuWArA eLIyA munIcIPAL councIL
fees for Propaganda notices.   - year 2017
i  hereby declar e  that the Municipal Council, Nuwara eliya  has  decided as per the decision No. 250 of 25.11.2016, to 
levy fees as mentioned  in the schedule below, from the 01st day of January 2017  to 31st day of december 2017 , for any 
Propaganda Notices exhibited or made to exhibit, to be viewed in any way, by any person, to a street, waterway or a lake 
within the Municipal limits of Nuwara eliya, must obtain a permit from the Municipal Commissioner, in terms of  the 
provisions of  by-Law in respect of propaganda notices Page 90/A (Part 02) declared by the Minister of Local Government 
housing and Construction, published in the Extraordinary Gazette No. 541/17 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka, dated 20.01.1989., by virtue of the powers vested under Sub section 272 (27) of the Municipal Council Ordinance 
(Chapter 252). 
 r .M . K .r .b . Rathnayake,                                                                                                                             
 Municipal Commissioner,                                                                                                                     
 Municipal Council - Nuwara eliya.       
At  t h e  N u w a r a  E l i y a  M u n i c i p a l  C o u n c i l  O f fi c e ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
On this 29th  day of december, 2016.
sCheduLe
01. Fees for Banners / Posters / Cutouts  (For one square foot)(Under special permission from the Municipal Council)
 Exhibited Period Exhibited on one side Exhibited on both sides
from 01 day to 03 days rs.  50.00 + taxes approved by the Government rs.100.00 + taxes approved by the  
   Government
from 04 days to 07 days rs.  75.00 + taxes approved by the Government rs.150.00 + taxes approved by the  
   Government
More than 07 days and rs. 500.00 + taxes approved by the Government  rs.1000.00 + taxes approved by
 maximum up to 14  days  + 10% surplus Charge  the Government + surplus Charge.
Maximum 10 Banners / Posters / Cutouts shall be allowed to exhibit for the fees mentioned above. For Banners/ 
Posters / Cutouts exhibited in excess, two times the fee mentioned above and 10% additional fee of the total fee shall be 
levied. 
02. 
fees for Propaganda Notice boards.
 With Electricity Without  Electricity
exhibited on one side Less than 10x10 square feet.     Less than 10x10 square feet. 
 rs.  1050.00 + taxes approved by the Government  rs.  750.00 + taxes approved by the  
  Government
 More than 10x10 square feet.     More than 10x10 square feet.    
 rs.  2100.00 + taxes approved by the Government  rs.  1500.00 + taxes approved by the  
  Government
exhibited on both sides Less than 10x10 square feet.     Less than 10x10 square feet.    
 rs.  1200.00 + taxes approved by the Government  rs.  900.00 + taxes approved by the  
  Government
 More than 10x10 square feet.      More than 10x10 square feet.    
 rs.  2400.00 + taxes approved by the Government  rs.  3600.00 + taxes approved by the  
  Government
02-346/5

<!-- page 40 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
302
nuWArA  eLIyA  munIcIPAL  councIL
charging of the following fees have been decided by the Decision no. 250 of 25.11.2016, 
for the year 2017
aLLOCatiON of the Playground and the New town hall :
01. allocation of the Playground (with the green)
Sport Amount                                                                      
 Rs.  cts.
Amount to be 
deposited                 
 Rs.   cts.
Cricket ( For one day ) 3,250/- with the government approved taxes ––
Cricket ( For one day, for the preparation of the 
ground )
4,400/- with the government approved taxes 2,000.00
for football 3,250/- with  the government approved taxes 3,000.00
For netball / volleyball 3,000/- with the government approved taxes 2,000.00
Indoor Stadium
Area Amount                                                                  
 Rs.  cts.
Amount to 
be deposited                   
Rs.   Cts.
Concrete floor (for an hour) 400/- with the government approved taxes 1,000.00
Floor covered with planks(for an hour) 500/- with the government approved taxes 2,500.00
Allocation of the 
town hall
Basis Amount                                                                     
Rs.  cts.
Amount to be 
deposited                   
Rs.   Cts.
by the payment of a fee. 17,600/-with the government approved taxes 15,000.00
Victoria Auditorium
Basis Amount
Rs.  cts.
by the payment of a fee. 3,500/- with the government approved taxes
if for non- sports based  business.(With special approval from the Municipal Council )
if the participation is less than 200 - rs. 12,000.00  with the government approved taxes
if the participation is more than 200 - rs. 18,000.00 with the government approved taxes
for the landing of helicopters on the Municipal Playground.
rs. 4,700.00 with the government approved taxes
For the landing of sea planes on the Gregory Lake.
rs. 4,700.00 with the government approved taxes

<!-- page 41 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
303
02. Fees for shooting films .- for commercial shootings.
Local foreign
for an hour Rs. 2,350/- ( Inclusive of  the government 
approved taxes)
Rs. 5,850/- (Inclusive of  the government approved 
taxes)
for a day Rs. 14,000/- (Inclusive of  the government 
approved taxes)
Rs. 28,000/- ( Inclusive of  the government approved 
taxes)
03. 
fees for temporary selling Places (sale)
to run temporary selling Places ( sale) for a day - rs.6,000/-  inclusive of  the government approved taxes. 
(Charges for 07 days maximum)
for more than 07 days for a maximum of 14 days , rs. 10,000/-  inclusive of  the government approved taxes.
To run motor vehicle sales fairs for the first day - Rs. 30,000/- inclusive of  the government approved taxes and 
rs. 2,000/- inclusive of  the government approved taxes for each successive day   .
charging fees from the sales promotion programmes.
Charging fees based on the land area on which the sales promotion programme is being carried out.
accordingly for an area of 100 square feet (10x10) a fee of   rs. 12,000/- inclusive of  the government approved 
taxes and a daily fee of rs. 300/- inclusive of  the government approved taxes for each additional square feet will be charged .
Subject to relevant charges for the banners / flags exhibited approved exhibition fees shall be charged separately.
04. Charges for parking vehicles
Parking places for which charges are levied.
Place Fees
 Rs.  Cts.
1. For the vehicle park of the  Gregory park    
for bicycles for an hour. 
for three wheelers for an hour. 
for other vehicles   for an hour . 
  30.00
  50.00
  100.00
2. Near the Magasthota Gregory Lagoon    
for motor bicycles for an hour                                            
for three wheels for an hour.  
bus, Lorry, Car, Van   
  30.00
  50.00
  100.00
3. Within the town 
Main street 
Outdoor stadium 
Lowson street
Old 
bazaar 
Queen elizabeth Mawatha 
VIP Vehicle Park
fruits sales centre
Victoria Park in front of the Udapussellawa 
road
Kandy road 
Park Road
badulla road
For motor bicycles for an hour                20/-
For Three wheelers for an hour               30/-
For Cars, Vans for an hour                       50/-
For Bus, Lorry, Tractor  for an hour        100/-

<!-- page 42 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
304
Place Fees
 Rs.  cts.
4. City Junction - cow dung fertilizer Lorry, sand 
Lorry (for an hour)
100.00
5. For parking vehicles at vehicle park of the fair 
on saturday and sunday
100.00
    
m
otor Vehicle Parking fees 
• Parking fee for lorries / buses for the whole year Rs. 5500/- inclusive of Government approved taxes.
• Parking fee for vehicles for transport of goods for the whole year Rs. 3500/- inclusive of Government approved taxes.
• Parking fee for cars / vans  for the whole year Rs. 3000/- inclusive of Government approved taxes.
• Parking fee for three wheelers for the whole year Rs. 1800/- inclusive of Government approved taxes.
05. Application forms
• Issue of  copies of plans Rs. 200/- inclusive of Government approved taxes.
• To obtain certificates from the National Building Research Organization  Rs. 25/-  inclusive of 
Government approved taxes.
• To obtain Street Line certificates Rs. 500/- inclusive of Government approved taxes.
• To obtain sub divisions Rs. 100/- inclusive of Government approved taxes.
• Issue of  building applications Rs. 250/- inclusive of Government approved taxes.
• To obtain certificates of conformity Rs. 100/- inclusive of Government approved taxes.
06. Library membership fees
• For adults / children out of the Municipal limits Rs. 100/- inclusive of Government approved taxes.
• for adults within the Municipal limits rs. 50/- inclusive of Government approved taxes.
• for children within the Municipal limits rs. 20/- inclusive of Government approved taxes.
07. fees for water Services
• For a water bowser of 6000 Litres Rs. 7200/- inclusive of Government approved taxes.
• For a water bowser of 2000 Litres Rs. 1200/- inclusive of Government approved taxes.
• Only for 6000 Litres of water Rs. 1800/- inclusive of Government approved taxes.
• Only for 2000 Litres of water Rs. 500/- inclusive of Government approved taxes.
• Application for obtaining  water  Rs. 600/- inclusive of Government approved taxes.
• For a field survey  Rs. 200/- inclusive of Government approved taxes.
• For the checking of  water samples Rs. 1200/- inclusive of Government approved taxes.
08. hiring of rollers
• For hiring per day  Rs. 6700/- inclusive of Government approved taxes.
• For hiring for half a day  Rs. 3400/- inclusive of Government approved taxes.
09. Work associated with funerals.
• for the erection of a memorial in the cemetery rs. 24,000/-  inclusive of Government approved taxes.
• Crematorium fee for residents outside the municipal limits  Rs. 9,500/-  inclusive of Government 
approved taxes.
•
 Crematorium fee for residents of  the municipal limits  Rs. 5,000/-  inclusive of Government approved 
taxes.

<!-- page 43 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
305
• Fees for the burial of adults  Rs. 100/-  inclusive of Government approved taxes.
• Fees for the burial of children  Rs. 50/-  inclusive of Government approved taxes.
10.  Fees for change of names in the assessment register  Rs. 1,800/-  inclusive of Government approved taxes.
11. Fees for the sale of applications  Rs. 1,200/-  inclusive of Government approved taxes.
12. Fees for the issue of extracts of certificates  Rs. 100/-  inclusive of Government approved taxes.
13. 
issue of environment licenses.
• Issue of  small scale Environment licenses Rs. 4,000/-  + Government approved taxes.
• Issue of large scale Environment licenses Rs. 8,000/-  + Government approved taxes.
14. Letting of  animals on roam is prohibited by the Municipal Council and when stray animals (like ponies and 
cattle) are caught by the  Municipal Council a fine of Rs. 5000/- for the release and a fee of Rs. 2500/- for holding per day 
inclusive of Government taxes shall be charged.
15. Maintaining of businesses not authorized by the Municipal Council is hereby prohibited and for carrying out of 
such businesses the fine will be Rs. 5,000.
16. improper disposal of garbage  is prohibited by the Municipal Council and for such improper disposal of garbage  
a fine of  Rs. 5000/- will be charged .
17. Charges for fairs.- Fees for the sellers in the public fair held on Sunday /Saturday and special days.
Area Fee
5 x 5 square feet Rs. 250/- (inclusive of Government approved  taxes)
3 x 3 square feet Rs. 100/- (inclusive of Government approved  taxes)
Less than 3 x 3 square feet Rs.  50/- (inclusive of Government approved  taxes)
18. Victoria Park / Gregory Park / Sandathenna Observation Station. 
  (Charges in the following table include Government approved  taxes)
Victoria Park Gregory Park Sandathenna Observation 
Station
Local adults Rs.40/- Rs.50/- Rs.50/-
Local Children Rs.15/- Rs.15/- Rs.20/-
school Children Rs.10/- Rs.10/- Rs.20/-
foreign adults Rs.300/- Rs.200/- Rs.400/-
foreign Children Rs.150/- Rs.150/- Rs.200/-
Local Jeep safari Rs.2000/-
foreign Jeep safari Rs.3000/-
19. Boat Services.- (Charges in the following table include Government approved  taxes)
Boat Type Amount
Jets Key Rs. 150/- 
Motor boats Rs. 150/-
speed boats Rs. 200/-
s.r. speed boats Rs. 200/-
Pedal boats Rs. 70/-
Oared boats Rs. 70/-
aquable boats Rs. 150/-

<!-- page 44 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
306
Registration Fee for a new boat is Rs 5,000/- (inclusive of  Government approved  taxes)
20. Allocation of Gregory Park for entertainment. ( Government approved  taxes are included)
Fees for the allocation of the Gregory Park on temporary basis for public entertainment and parallel work in the 
festive season and other similar occasions .
Minimum fee for the allocation for entertainment - Rs. 10,000/- 
If the participation exceeds 300 - Rs. 30,000/- 
If the participation is less than  300 - Rs. 100/- per person and additionally the Government approved  taxes will 
be added. 
Number of days Less than 5,000 Square Feet More than 5,000 Square Feet
april season
01 to 30 Rs. 50/- per one Square Feet Rs. 50/- per one Square Feet and Rs. 30/- 
per one additional square feet
More than  30 Rs. 100/- per one Square 
feet
Rs. 100/- per one Square Feet and Rs. 100/- 
per one additional 
square feet
August / 
december 
season
01 to 30 Rs. 30/- per one Square Feet Rs. 30/- per one Square Feet and Rs. 35/- 
per 
 one additional 
square feet
More than  30 Rs. 100/- per one Square 
feet
Rs. 100/- per one Square Feet and Rs. 100/- 
per one additional 
square feet
for period other than the seasons ( except for the months above mentioned )
01 to 30 Less than 5000 Rs. 25/- per one Square Feet and Rs. 15/- 
per 
 one additional 
square feet
(April / August / December are festive seasons)
 r .M . K .r .b . Rathnayake,                                                                                                                             
 Municipal Commissioner,                                                                                                                     
 Municipal Council - Nuwara eliya.    
   
A
t  t h e  N u w a r a  E l i y a  M u n i c i p a l  C o u n c i l  O f fi c e ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
On this 29th  day of december, 2016.
02-346/6
––––––––––––––––––––––––
homAGAmA  PrADeShIyA  SABhA
Assessment tax for the year 2017
i hereby declare my decision in accordance with my decision No. 6526 of 02.11.2016 with regard to assessment tax for the 
year 2017 according to the power vested upon me by the section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987.
 b. dhaRmani wiJeRathne,
 Secretary and the enforcement officer of the 
 powers and duties of the Pradeshiya sabha,
 Pradeshiya sabha of homagama.
Main office of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
homagama,
02nd November, 2016.

<!-- page 45 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
307
deCisiON
I, B. Dharmani Wijerathne, the Secretary of the Sabha and the enforcement officer of the powers and duties of the 
homagama Pradeshiya sabha, has determined the assessment tax relevant to the year 2017 for the homagama Pradeshiya 
sabha locality in accordance with the provisions in section 9 (3) of the Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987 reading 
together with the section 134 (1) of the aforesaid act. that is,
according to the powers vested upon the homagama Pradeshiya sabha, under the sub section (1) of the section 
146 of the Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987, houses, buildings, lands, the annual value of the diyunugam areas in 
the appendix i for the year 2008 and the annual value of the diyunugam areas in the appendix i for the year 2008 as the 
estimation for the year 2017, the annual value of the diyunugam areas in the appendix ii for the year 2010 as the estimation 
for the year 2017 and according to the powers vested upon me by the section 9 (3) reading together with the section 134 
(1) of the Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987, upon such estimation a percentage of the annual value of  such property as 
mentioned in the appendix shall be imposed as tax.
furthermore, in accordance with the below stated appendix i and ii, the respective annual tax for each quater shall 
be paid before the stated date to the fund of the homagama Pradeshiya sabha and if such payment is made on or before 31st 
december 2017, ten percent (10%) discount off the annual tax or tax payable for each quarter is paid one month prior to the 
end of the quarter, five percent (5%) discount off the respective amount for each quarter shall be given by the homagama 
Pradeshiya sabha.
aPPendix i
 Diyunugam Area Tax percentage
 u dugahapattu diyunugam area belonging to the Wethara Zone 7%
aPPendix ii
 Diyunugam Area Tax percentage
 homagama Zone
 division No. 01 7%
 division No. 02 7%
 division No. 03 7%
 division No. 04 7%
 division No. 05 7%
 division No. 06 7%
 division No. 07 7%
 developed area in Meegoda 7%
02-323/1
––––––––––––––––––––––––
homAGAmA  PrADeShIyA  SABhA
License fees for Businesses requiring commercial License for the year 2017
i hereby declare my decision in accordance with my decision No. 6527 of  02.11.2016 with regard to tax for 2017 according 
to the power vested upon me by the Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987.
 b. dhaRmani wiJeRathne,
 Secretary and the enforcement officer of the 
 powers and duties of the Pradeshiya sabha,
 Pradeshiya sabha of homagama.
Main office of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
homagama,
02nd November 2016.

<!-- page 46 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
308
deCisiON
according to the powers vested upon me by the section 147 and section 149 of the 1987 Pradeshiya sabha act,            
No. 15 of 1987 reading together with the section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya sabha act, i hereby declare the license fees for the 
year 2017 within the homagama Pradeshiya sabha area.
according to the powers vested upon me by the section 147 and section 149, reading together with the section 
9:3 of the Pradeshiya sabha act, a license issued in the year 2017, for using a premises or a place within the homagama 
Pradeshiya sabha area for the purpose as stated in the aforesaid act or any by-laws related to the said act and as mentioned 
in the appendix i below, the respective fee as stated in the Column ii of the appendix i, shall be charged.
furthermore, if the above-montioned place or premise is a hotel, canteen or a restaurant approved and recognized 
by the tourism board under the tourism board act, No. 14 of 1968, 1% of the income for the year 2016 of the relevant 
hotel, canteen or the restaurant shall be charged as the license fee when providing license for the year 2017.
aPPendix
 Column I  Column II
 Task for which the power is vested  Annual value of the premises
  Not exceeding Exceeding  Exceeding
  Rs. 750 Rs. 750 but not Rs. 1,500
   exceeding  Rs. 1,500
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 1 hotels and restaurants 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 2 funeral parlors and services 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 3 Canteens 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 4 Bakeries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 5 Cattle and dairy farms 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 6 sale of food items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 7 Sale of fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 8 sale of meat 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 9 ice factories 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10 Soft drinks factories 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11 Laundry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12 tourist industry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13 Cattle farming 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 14 slaughter house 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15 salons and hairdressing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 16 fertilizer or chemical fertilizer manufacturing and storage 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 17 seasoning of leather 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 18 sale of leather 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 19 animal husbandry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 20 Photography studio 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 21 Veterinary clinic 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 22 storage of short span food items for sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 23 Storage of dried fish, salted fish or jaadi in excess of 150 kg. 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 24 Manufacture of wood or coconut shell charcoal or storage of 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  charcoal
 25 tobacco processing or storage 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 26 Manufacture of animal food or maintaining store of animal food 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 27 Manufacture of oilcakes or storage of more than 200kg of oilcakes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 28 Manufacture of soap 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 29 Grinding or storage of animal bones 500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 47 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
309
 30 storage of old or new metals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 31 Maintaining a storage of metallic waste materials 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 32 Manufacture or storage of household furniture 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 33 Manufacture of cane items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 34 Maintaining a carpentry shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 35 Manufacture of syrup or fruit juice 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 36 Manufacture of sweets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 37 Soaking of coconut husks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 38 Manufacture  of brushes (except tooth brushes) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 39 Manufacture of tooth brushes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 40 Collection of toddy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 41 Manufacture or storage of vinegar 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 42 Workshop for cutting wood by hand or machinery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 43 Manufacture of paints, varnish, distemper paints or storage in 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  excess of 100L
 44 Manufacture of soda 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 45 Manufacture of leather goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 46 Canning of fruits, fish or other foods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 47 Grinding mill for chili, coffee, cereals, grams, spices or milk powder 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 48 Manufacture of candles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 49 Manufacture of writing ink, printing ink or stencil ink 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 50 Manufacturing of liquid blue for fabrics 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 51 Manufacturing lacquer 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 52 Manufacture or storage of perfumes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 53 Manufacture of chalk 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 54 storage of tires or tubes in excess of 50 nos 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 55 Refill or tires 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 56 V olcanizing or tires and tubes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 57 Storage of cement on excess of 100kg s 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 58 Manufacture of cement goods or asbestos cement 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 59 Manufacture of plastic items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 60 Weaving clothes using machinery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 61 Cleansing and resell of sacks used for fertilizer, chalk, flour or 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  any other substance
 62 Manufacture of cement blocks using machinery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 63 Storage of cereals or grains in excess of 250 kg 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 64 Storage of milk powder, salt or sugar in excess of 750 kg for  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  sale in stocks 
 65 Maintaining a press for printing purposes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 66 Poultry farm with a total exceeding 100 poultry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 67 Maintaining an animal farm with more than 10 goats or pigs 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 68 Storage of bricks or tiles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 69 Storage of firewood 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 70 excavating or granite 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 71 Manufacture of soft drinks and storage exceeding 100 bottles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 Column I  Column II
 Task for which the power is vested  Annual value of the premises
  Not exceeding Exceeding  Exceeding
  Rs. 750 Rs. 750 but not Rs. 1,500
   exceeding  Rs. 1,500
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 48 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
310
 72 Manufacture of ice cream 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 73 Manufacture of coconut oil and storage exceeding 300L 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 74 Manufacture of boxes of matches and storage exceeding 12 dozens 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 75 Manufacture of storage of fibrous oranmaents 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 76 storage of used clothes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 77 Manufacture and repair of gold jewellery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 78 Wood cutting using machinery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 79 Metal workshops using machinery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 80 Storage of empty sacks or empty bottles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 81 Workshop for repairing motor cycles and bicycles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 82 storage of used newspapers and papers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 83 spray painting premises 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 84 Manufacture or storage of fire crackers and fireworks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 85 storage of vegetable oil except coconut oil more than 50 L 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 86 Storage of frozen fish or meat 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 87 storage of wood 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 88 Converting Cinnamon or cardamom to fiber using chemicals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 89 dry cleaning or dyeing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 90 Printing or painting cloths 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 91 Maintaining a workshop for electroplating 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 92 Burning of limestone or storage of slaked lime 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 93 repair and electrical charging of batteries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 94 Motor vehicle repairing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 95 Motor vehicle service center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 96 Maintaining a foundry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 97 Maintaining at in workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 98 storage of gas cylinders 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 99 Manufacture or composition of ayurvedic medicine and 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  indigenous medicine
 100 storage of glass items and glass sheets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 101 Plastic or fiber related factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 102 Storage in excess of 150 kg of tea 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 103 Welding workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 104 Maintaining a lathe workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 105 storage of petrol, diesel, oil or any other form of mineral oils 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 106 Manufacture or storage of agrochemicals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 107 repair and service of air conditioners, refrigerators and deep freezers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 108 Maintaining an electric industrial workshop or a workshop for  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  manufacturing or repairing of electrical appliances
 109 Maintaining a refrograting center for milk 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
02-323/2
 Column I  Column II
 Task for which the power is vested  Annual value of the premises
  Not exceeding Exceeding  Exceeding
  Rs. 750 Rs. 750 but not Rs. 1,500
   exceeding  Rs. 1,500
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 49 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
311
homAGAmA PrADeShIyA SABhA
Industrial tax for the year 2017
i hereby declare my decision in accordance with my decision No. 6529 of  02.11.2016 with regard to assessment tax for the 
year 2017 according to the power vested upon me by the section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987.
 b. dhaRmani wiJeRathne,
 Secretary and the enforcement officer of the 
 powers and duties of the Pradeshiya sabha 
 Pradeshiya sabha of homagama.
Main office of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
homagama,
02nd November, 2016.
deCisiON
I, B. Dharmani Wijerathne, the secretary of the sabha and the enforcement officer of the powers and duties of the 
homagama Pradeshiya sabha, has determined the industrial taxes relevant to the year 2017 for the homagama Pradeshiya 
sabha area in accordance with the provisions in section 9 (3) of the Pradeshiya sabha act No. 15 of 1987 reading together 
with the section 150 (1) of the aforesaid act. that is,
according to the powers vested upon me by the section (1) of the section 150 the Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 
1987, reading together with the section 9:3 of the said act, for all the premises maintained within the homagama Pradeshiya 
sabha area by all the industries stated in the coulmn i of the appendix below shall pay the respective tax in the column ii of 
the appendix for the year 2017.
 Column I  Column II
 Purpose for granting License  Annual value of the premises
  Not exceeding Exceeding  Exceeding
  Rs. 750 Rs. 750 but not Rs. 1,500
   exceeding  Rs. 1,500
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Manufacture of excise books 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Manufacture of incense sticks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Mnufacture of acne items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Manufacture of brooms and eackle brooms 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Manufacture and repair of electrical appliances 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
repair of watches 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Wood carvings and manufacture of ornaments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Manufacture of toys and other ornaments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Manufacture of fiber related products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Manufacture of household furniture 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
V olcanizing tires and tubes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Manufacture of aluminum goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Manufacture of artificial flowers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Gem cutting/ manufacture and repair of jewellery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
repair of electrical appliances 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
electrical repairing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
repair of footwear 500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 50 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
312
Maintaining a tailor shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Manufacture of rubber stamps 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Manufacture of bandages  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Repair of juki machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Manufacture of paper bags and envelopes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
repair of electronic scales and cash registers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Weaving clothes by hand machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Cushion workshops 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Repair of injector pumps 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
02-323/4
–––––––––––––––––––––
homAGAmA PrADeShIyA SABhA
Business taxes for the year 2017
i hereby declare my decision in accordance with my decision No. 6528 of 02.11.2016 with regard to tax for the year 2017 
according to the power vested upon me by the section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987.
 b. dhaRmani wiJeRathne,
 Secretary and the enforcement officer of the 
 powers and duties of the Pradeshiya sabha 
 Pradeshiya sabha of homagama.
Main Office of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
homagama,
02nd November, 2016.
deCisiON
I, B. Dharmani Wijerathne, the secretary of the sabha and the enforcement officer of the powers and duties of the 
homagama Pradeshiya sabha, has determined the business taxes relevant to the year 2017 for the homagama Pradeshiya 
sabha area in accordance with the provisions in section 9 (3) of the Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987 reading together 
with the section 152 (1) of the aforesaid act. that is,
according to the powers vested upon the homagama Pradeshiya sabha by the sub section (1) of the section 152, 
reading together with the section 9:3 of the Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987, when a license is issued under the said 
act or any by-laws thereof or maintaining a business which does not require the payment of any taxes under the section 
150 of the aforesaid act in the year 2017, within the homagama Pradeshiya sabha area, as stated in the appendix i below, 
the respective business tax as stated in the coulmn ii of the appendix below, shall be charged for the year 2017 if the annual 
income of the business during the year 2016 is within the limits as stated in the column i of the appendix.
 Column I  Column II
 Purpose for granting License  Annual value of the premises
  Not exceeding Exceeding  Exceeding
  Rs. 750 Rs. 750 but not Rs. 1,500
   exceeding  Rs. 1,500
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 51 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
313
aPPendix Stated above
 Column I Column II
 Income during the year 2016 Rs.
Not exceeding rs. 6,000 None
exceeding rs. 6,000 but not exceeding rs. 12,000   90 0
exceeding rs. 12,000 but not exceeding rs. 18,750   180 0
exceeding rs. 18,750 but not exceeding rs. 75,000   360 0
exceeding rs. 75,000 but not exceeding rs. 150,000   1,200 0
exceeding rs. 150,000   3,000 0
02-323/3
–––––––––––––––––––––
homAGAmA  PrADeShIyA  SABhA
License fee under the Public Perfomance ordinance for the year 2017
i, hereby declare my decision in accordance with my decision No. 6531.1 of  2016.11.02 with regard to tax  for 2017 
according to the power vested upon me by the section 9:3 of the Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987.
 b. dhaRmani wiJeRathne,
 Secretary and the enforcement officer of the 
 powers and duties of the Pradeshiya sabha,
 Pradeshiya sabha of homagama.
Main Office of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
homagama,
02nd November 2016.
deCisiON
I, B. Dharmani Wijerathne, the Secretary and the enforcement Officer of the powers and duties of the Homagama 
Pradeshiya sabha, has determined the fees with respect to the Public Performance Ordinance relevant to the year 2017 for 
the homagama Pradeshiya sabha area in accordance with the provisions in section 9 (3) of the Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 
15 of 1987.that is,
according to the powers  vested upon me by the section 9(3) of the Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987, i, hereby 
determine the license fee for a public performance in accordance with the section 3 of the Public Performance Ordinance 
(authority 176).
 
   Rs. cts.
 1 License fee for one day 200 0
 2 License fee for one week 500 0
 3 License fee for three months 750 0
 4 License fee for one year 1,000 0
02-323/7

<!-- page 52 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
314
homAGAmA  PrADeShIyA  SABhA
fees relevant to regulation of Decorations for 
the year 2017
i, hereby declare my decision in accordance with my decision 
No. 6528 of  02.11.2016 with regard to tax for the year 2017 
according to the power vested upon me by the section 9:3 of 
the Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987.
 b. dhaRmani wiJeRathne,
 Secretary and the enforcement officer of the 
 powers and duties of the Pradeshiya sabha 
 Pradeshiya sabha of homagama.
Main office of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
homagama,
02nd November 2016.
deCisiON
I, B. Dharmani Wijerathne, the Secretary of the Sabha 
and the enforcement Officer of the powers and duties of 
the 
homagama Pradeshiya sabha, has determined the fees 
relevant to the regulation of decorations for the year 2017 
within the 
homagama Pradeshiya  sabha  area in accordance 
with the provisions in section 9 (3) of the Pradeshiya sabha 
act, No. 15 of 1987. that is,
according to the powers vested upon me by the section 
9 (3) of the  Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987, i hereby 
determine the license fees and the deposit applicable for the 
decorations as stated in the appendix i, within the locality of 
the homagama Pradeshiya sabha according to the by laws 
relating to regulation of decorations in the standard by laws, 
approved and adopted by the Western Province Provincial 
Council, published in the part 
iV (b) of the special Gazette 
No. 1947/6 of 28th December 2015 and in the part IV (b) 
of the special (amended) Gazette No. 1976/21 of 20th July 
2016 compiled by the Minister of Local Governance in 
accordance with the powers vested upon him by the 
section 
2 of the Local Governance act (standard by Laws) No. 6 of 
1986 and adopted by the homagama Pradeshiya  sabha on 
21.07.2016 and published in the part iV (b) of the Gazette 
1986 of 23rd september, 2016.
aPPendix 
 Fee
 Rs. cts.
 a pplication fee for decorations 1,000 0
 d eposit 5,000 0
02-323/11
homAGAmA  PrADeShIyA  SABhA
taxes relevant to Vehicles and Animals for 
the year 2017
i, hereby declare my decision in accordance with my decision 
No. 6530 of  02.11.2016 with regard to tax for the year 2017 
according to the power vested upon me by the section 9:3 of 
the Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987.
 b. dhaRmani wiJeRathne,
 Secretary and the enforcement officer of the 
 powers and duties of the Pradeshiya sabha, 
 Pradeshiya sabha of homagama.
Main office of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
homagama,
02nd November 2016.
deCisiON
I, B. Dharmani Wijerathne, the Secretary of the Sabha 
and the enforcement officer of the powers and duties of the 
homagama Pradeshiya sabha, has determined the taxes 
relevant to animals and vehicls for the year 2017 for the 
homagama Pradeshiya sabha area in accordance with the 
provisions in section 9 (3) of the Pradeshiya sabha act, 
No. 15 of 1987 reading together with the section 147 and 
section 148 of the aforesaid act. that is,
according to the powers vested upon me by the  section 
147, reading together with the section 148 of the Pradeshiya 
sabha act, No. 15 of 1987, i have decided that any individual 
in possession of a vehicle or animal in the year 2014 as 
listed in the coulmn 
i of the appendix below shall pay the 
respective tax in the column ii of the appendix for the year 
2017.
 Column I  Column II
 Description Rs. 
any vehicle except a motor vehicle, motor  25
 tricycle, motor lorry, motor cycle, cart, gin 
 rickshaw, bicycle or tricycle
for all bicycles, tricycles, bicycle cart or cart
 (a) if used for commecial purpose 18
 (b) if used for non- commercial purposes 04
for all carts 20
for all hand carts 10
For all rickshaws 07
for all horses, ponies or mules 15
For all tuskers 50
02-323/5

<!-- page 53 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
315
homAGAmA  PrADeShIyA  SABhA
fees relevant to crematories for cremation for 
the year 2017
i, hereby declare my decision in accordance with my decision 
No. 6533 of  02.11.2016 with regard to tax for the year 2017 
according to the power vested upon me by the section 9:3 of 
the Pradeshiya 
sabha act, No. 15 of 1987.
 b. dhaRmani wiJeRathne,
 Secretary and the enforcement officer of the 
 powers and duties of the Pradeshiya sabha 
 Pradeshiya sabha of homagama.
Main office of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
homagama,
02nd November 2016.
deCisiON
I, B. Dharmani Wijerathne, the Secretary of the Sabha 
and the enforcement officer of the powers and duties of 
the 
homagama Pradeshiya sabha, has determined the fees 
relevant to the cremation of bodies in crematories for the 
year 2017 within the 
homagama Pradeshiya  sabha  locality 
in accordance with the provisions in section 9 (3) of the 
Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987. that is,
according to the powers vested upon me by the section 
9 (3) of the  Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987, i hereby 
determine the fees applicable for the cremation of bodies in 
crematories, within the area of the homagama Pradeshiya 
sabha according to the by laws relating to crematories, in 
the standard bylaws, approved and adopted by the Western 
Province Provincial Council, published in the part 
iV (b) 
of the special Gazette No. 1947/6 of 28th December 2015 
and in the part 
iV (b) of the special (amended) Gazette No. 
1976/21 of 20th July 2016 compiled by the Minister of Local 
Governance in accordance with the powers vested upon him 
by the section 2 of the Local Governmance 
act (standard 
by Laws) No. 6 of 1986 and adopted by the homagama 
Pradeshiya sabha on 21.07.2016 and published in the part 
iV (b) of the Gazette 1986 of 23rd september 2016.
aPPendix
   
  Fee
  Rs. cts. 
 
Within the area 4,500 0
 Outside the area 5,500 0
02-323/9
homAGAmA  PrADeShIyA  SABhA
fees relevant to the use of Playgrounds 
for the year 2017
i, hereby declare my decision in accordance with my 
decision  No. 6528 of 02.11.2016 with regard to tax  for 2017 
according to the power vested upon me by the section 9:3 of 
the Pradeshiya 
sabha act, No. 15 of 1987.
 b. dhaRmani wiJeRathne,
 Secretary and the enforcement officer of the 
 powers and duties of the Pradeshiya sabha 
 Pradeshiya sabha of homagama.
Main office of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
homagama,
02nd November 2016.
deCisiON
I, B. Dharmani Wijerathne, the Secretary of the Sabha 
and the enforcement officer of the powers and duties of 
the 
homagama Pradeshiya sabha, has determined the fees 
relevant to the use of playgrounds for the year 2017 within 
the 
homagama Pradeshiya  sabha  locality in accordance 
with the provisions in section 9 (3) of the Pradeshiya sabha 
act, No. 15 of 1987. that is,
according to the powers vested upon me by the section 
9 (3) of the  Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987, i hereby 
determine the fees applicable for the applications and 
deposits as statde in the appendix i and for the fees applicable 
according to the purpose as stated in appendix ii,  within the 
area of the homagama Pradeshiya sabha according to the 
by laws relating to service charges in the standard bylaws, 
approved and adopted by the Western Province Provincial 
Council, published in the part 
iV (b) of the special Gazette 
No. 1947/6 of 28th December 2015 and in the part IV (b) 
of the special (amended) Gazette No. 1976/21 of 20th July 
2016 compiled by the Minister of Local Governance in 
accordance with the powers vested upon him by the section 
2 of the Local Governance 
act (standard by Laws) No. 6 of 
1986 and adopted by the homagama Pradeshiya sabha on 
21.07.2016 and published in the part iV (b) of the Gazette 
1986 of 23rd september 2016.
aPPendix i
  Amount
  Rs. cts. 
 application fee 100 0
 deposit 10,000 0

<!-- page 54 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
316
aPPendix ii
            Playground Fee  
 Purpose Wilfred  C. Hocks  Common area of Other grounds
  Senanayaka  ground, Matthegoda  under the 
  ground,  Galawilawattha Housing Schme control of the
  Homagama   Sabha
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Commercial (private) 3,000 0 2,000 0 2,500 0 2,000 0
Commercial (state) 2,000 0 1,000 0 1,500 0 1,000 0
Christmas/new year sals 3,000 0 2,000 0 2,500 0 2,000 0
Sports/ cultural festivals (state) 2,000 0 1,000 0 1,500 0 1,000 0
Sports/cultural festivals (private) 3,000 0 2,000 0 2,500 0 2,000 0
Musical concerts 5,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0 2,000 0
Others 3,000 0 2,000 0 2,500 0 2,000 0
02-323/10
–––––––––––––––––––––
homAGAmA  PrADeShIyA  SABhA
fees relevant to Advertising according to the By-law, on Advertising
i hereby declare my decision in accordance with my decision No. 6531 of 02.11.2016 with regard to tax for the year 2017 
according to the power vested upon me by the section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987.
 b. dhaRmani wiJeRathne,
 Secretary and the Enforcement Officer of the 
 Powers and duties of the Pradeshiya sabha 
 Pradeshiya sabha of homagama.
Main office of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
homagama,
02nd November, 2016.
deCisiON
I, B. Dharmani Wijerathne, the secretary of the sabha and the enforcement officer of the powers and duties of the 
homagama Pradeshiya sabha, has determined the fees relevant to advetising for the year 2017 within the homagama Pradeshiya 
sabha area in accordance with the provisions in section 9 (3) of the Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987 that is,
according to the powers vested upon me according to the section 9 (3) of the  Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 
1987, I hereby determine the fees applicable for the display of any advertisement in a street, road, cannel, lake or visible 
to the sky, within the locality of the Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha according to the by laws relating to advertising in the 
standard by laws and approved by the Western Province Provincial Council, published in the part iV (b) of the special 
Gazette No. 1976/21 of 20th July, 2016 compiled by the Minister of Local Governance in accordance with the powers vested 
upon him by the section 2 of the Local Government act, (standard by-laws) No. 6 of 1986 and adopted by the homagama 
Pradeshiya Sabha on 2016/07/21 and published in the part IV (b) of the Gazette 1986 of 23rd september 2016.

<!-- page 55 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
317
aPPendix
 Index  Nature of the sign board Size in   Charge (Rs.)
 Number  square Less than  Between 03 and One year
    meters 03 months 06 months
 01 advertisement on any wall Less than 01  r s.  250 rs. 350  rs. 500
     Less than 01 for every square meter or any part of it
     exceeding 1 square meter rs. 200 each 
 02 Cloth and digital banners Less than 03  r s. 250 rs. 350  rs. 500
    More than 03 for every square meter or any part of it
     exceeding 1 square meter rs. 200 each 
 03 advertisements to be displayed on Less than 01  r s. 500  rs. 750 rs. 1,000
   sheets or wood More than 01 for every square meter or any part of it
      exceeding 1 square meter rs. 300 each 
 04 advertisements diplayed using  Less than 01  r s. 500  rs. 750 rs. 1,000
   electricity More than 01 for every square meter or any part of it
     exceeding 1 square meter rs. 300 each 
 05 advertisements using cardboard or Less than 01  r s.  250 rs. 350  rs. 500
   wax sheets More than 01 for every square meter or any part of it
     exceeding 1 square meter rs. 200 each 
 06 advertisements using plastic or   Less than 01  r s.  250 rs. 350  rs. 500
   fiber boards  More than 01 For every square meter or any part of it
     exceeding 1 square meter rs. 200 each 
 07 advertisements using electrical Less than 01  r s.  750 rs. 850  rs. 1,000
   equipment More than 01 for every square meter or any part of it
     exceeding 1 square meter rs. 500 each 
02-323/6
–––––––––––––––––––––
homAGAmA  PrADeShIyA  SABhA
Fees relevant to Applications and Certificates for the Year 2017
i hereby declare my decision in accordance with my decision No. 6532 of 02.11.2016 with regard to tax for the year 2017 
according to the power vested upon me by the section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987.
 b. dhaRmani wiJeRathne,
 Secretary and the enforcement officer of the 
 powers and duties of the Pradeshiya sabha,
 Pradeshiya sabha of homagama.
Main office of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
homagama,
02nd November, 2016.

<!-- page 56 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 09.02.2017
318
deCisiON
I, B. Dharmani Wijerathne, the secretary of the sabha and the enforcement officer of the powers and duties of the 
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha, has determined the fees relevant to applications and certificates for the year 2017 within the 
homagama Pradeshiya sabha locality in accordance with the provisions in section 9 (3) of the Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 
15 of 1987. That is ;
acording to the powers vested upon me by the section 9 (3) of the  Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 15 of 1987, i hereby 
determine the fees applicable for the applications as stated in the appendix I and for the certificates as stated in appendix II, 
within the area of the homagama Pradeshiya sabha according to the by laws relating to service charges in the standard by-
laws, approved and adopted by the Western Province Provincial Council, published in the part iV (b) of the special Gazette 
No. 1947/6 of 28th December, 2015 and in the part IV (b) of the special (amended) Gazette No. 1976/21 of 20th July, 2016 
compiled by the Minister of Local Governance in accordance with the powers vested upon him by the section 2 of the Local 
Governmance act, (standard by Laws) No. 6 of 1986 and adopted by the homagama Pradeshiya sabha on 21.07.2016 and 
published in the part iV (b) of the Gazette 1986 of 23rd september, 2016.
aPPendix i
 Application Application fee
  Rs. cts.
application for pre-schools 250 0
application library membership 100 0
application for quotation of the assessment tax register 250 0
application for registration of suppliers 500 0
Application for certification of street lines 150 0
Application for certificate of non - acquisition
aPPendix ii
 Certificate Certificate fee
  Rs. cts.
Certificate of street lines
Non- acquisition certificate
 500 0
Certificate of assests
Certificate for certifying quotations of assessment registry (per annum)
 150 0
Certificate for certifying issued estimates 100 0
02-323/8
PriNted  at  the  dePartMeNt  Of  GOVerNMeNt  PriNtiNG,  sri  LaNKa.