

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.02.2017
21
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
PAGE 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
  
PAGE 
Land Sales by the Settlement Ofﬁ cers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 22
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
wxl 2006- 2017 fmnrjdß ui 09 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2017'02'09                                                                                                                    
No. 2,006 - THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 09,  2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
21
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notiﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertain ing to notiﬁ cation 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.                
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  3rd March,  2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on  17th February, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satis ﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 GANGANI LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B.-  Th e List  of Jurors in Kegalle District Jurisdiction  Area in Y ear 2017 has been  published in Part  VI of this Gazette in all   
         three  Languages.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'09
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.02.2017
22
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/51839.
Provincial  Land  Commissioner's  No.: UPLC/L/9/
SAL/46. 
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND  
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby noti ﬁ ed that for the purpose of Commercial, 
Ethimale Plantation  (Private) Limited  company has   
requested on lease a  State land containing in extent about   
7.0339  Hectare  out of  extent marked  Lot  No.- as depicted 
in the Plan No. -  situated in the  village  of  Siyambalanduwa 
with  belongs to the  Grama Niladhari Division of   No. 123C  
Madugama   coming  within  the area of Siyambalanduwa 
authority of Divisional Secretariat in the  District of  
Monaragala.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
 
On the North by : Reserved Land  along the Road  and 
Road ;
On the East by : Road ;
On the  South by :  Road ;
On the West by : Road and  Reserved land along  the 
Road. 
The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to 
lease out the land subject to other Government approved 
conditions:- 
 (a)  Term  of the Lease .– Thirty   Years (30) ,  (Since 
09.01.2017 );
  The Annual  Rent of the Lease. – 4% of the  commercial   
value  of the land as per valuation of the Chief   Valuer 
for the year 2017. This amount of the lease must be 
quinquennially revised  in such a manner that the 
amount  as  a result of the  revision will be not  less 
than  50% of the amount that just preceded.  
Premium .- Three times of the annual rent of the  
lease  ; 
 ( b) This lessee must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop  the said  land, in such a manner 
as to captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
 
 ( c) The lessee must not use this land for any purposes  
other than for  the purpose of  Commercial  ;
 ( d) This lesse  must also  be subject  to the  other  special 
conditions stipulated  and  imposed by the  Divisional 
Secretary/Scoping  Committee/Board of Investment 
of Sri Lanka  and  by other  institutions;  
 (e)  The buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair.
 (f)  Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within 
the speciﬁ ed time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease ;
 (g)  No sub - leasing can be done until the expiry of a 
minimum period of 05 years from 09.01.2017  ;
 (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
 (i) House construction  activities must  be completed 
within  the time  frame speciﬁ ed  in alienating  lands 
for house  construction  purposes  and the failure to 
do so will  be deemed  as a lapse of the  long  term 
lease bond  and the  land  will have  to be  re - vested 
in the  government. 
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date which this  notice is published  
in the  Gazette  to the effect that this land must not be given 
on lease, the land will be leased out as requested. 
  L. P. C
HAMIKA SUBODHINI, 
 Assistant  Land Commissioner ,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
"Mihikatha Medura",  Land Secretariat, No. 1200/6, 
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla,
09th February,  2017.
02-448
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.