

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2352$10 - 2023 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 03 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2023.10.03
No. 2352/10  -  Tuesday,   OcTOber  03,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6491 - 21 (10/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
ThE  uRbAN  DEvELOPmENT  AuThORITY  LAw  No. 41  Of 1978
Order under Section 3
by virtue of the powers vested in me under section 3 of the urban development authority Law No. 41, 1978 as amended, 
I, Prasanna Ranathunga , the Minister of Urban Development and Housing being of the opinion that the area specified in 
Column I of the Schedule hereto and having the metes and bounds specified in the corresponding entry in column II of that 
schedule is suitable for development, do by this Order, declare such area to be an urban development area for the purpose 
of that section. 
 Prasanna ranathunga (M.P),
 Minister of urban development and Housing.
Ministry of urban development and Housing,
17th and 18th Floor,
“suhurupaya”, subhuthipura road,
battaramulla,
15th september, 2023.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.10.2023
2a
Column I
according to the Extraordinary Gazette Notification of 
democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka by the Gazette  
No. 1210/16 dated on 16.11.2001 in this belongs to Welimada 
divisional secretariat of badulla  district of uva Province as 
declared urban areas, No. 52-d Welimada Nagaraya Grama 
Niladhari division, No. 52-b Landegama Grama Niladhari 
division, No. 59 -d divithotawela Grama Niladhari division, 
No. 48 ambagahakumbura Grama Niladhari division,  
No. 59-a  Part of dambavinna Grama Niladhari division, 
No. 48-a  Part of diurumgama Grama Niladhari division, 
in addition of No. 50-c dimuthugama Grama Niladhari 
division, No. 50-c Palugama ella Grama Niladhari 
division, 50-1 Puranwela Grama Niladhari division,  
No. 50 Palugama Nagaraya Grama Niladhari division, 
No. 48-a  Part of diurumgama Grama Niladhari division, 
No. 59-a  Part of dambavinna Grama Niladhari division 
including the total area described in column II hereof.
scHeduLe 
Expansion of w elimada urban Development Area
column II
North:
commencing from the point where western boundary 
of No. 50 Palugama Town Grama Niladhari division in 
Welimada Pradeshiya sabha area and (a-5) Peradeniya- 
chenkaladi main road intersected a line drawn eastwards, 
Northeastwards, southeastwards, along the western 
boundary of No. 50-1 Puranwela Grama Niladhari division 
until it meets the western boundary of said Grama Niladhari 
division. Thence a line drawn Northwards, Northeastwards 
of Puranwela Grama Niladhari division until it meets the 
southern boundary of No. 48/b Girabe Grama Niladhari 
division. Thence a line drawn southern wards of No. 48/b 
Girabe Grama Niladhari division until it meets the western 
boundary of 48/a  divurumgama Grama Niladhari division.
Thence a line drawn Northeastwards, Northwestwards, 
eastwards, southeastwards along the North boundary of 
No. 48 ambagahakumbura Grama Niladhari division. 
Thence a line drawn eastwards, southern wards, eastwards, 
Northwestwards, Westwards, Northwards, eastwards, 
southwards, eastwards, Northwards, Northwestwards, 
Northeastwards, W estwards, Northwards, eastwards, 
southwards, Northeastwards, southwards, eastwards of  
No. 48 ambagahakumbura Grama Niladhari division until 
it meets the center point of the uma-Oya. Thence a line 
drawn along the uma-Oya until it meets the Northwest 
boundary of No. 52/a  Welimada Nagaraya Grama Niladhari 
division. Thence a line drawn Northeastwards, eastwards 
of No. 52-a  Welimada Nagaraya Grama Niladhari division 
until it meets the intersection point of 471-b Welimada-
udupussallawa Main road. Thence a line drawn eastwards, 
southwestwards, southeastwards of No. 52-a  Welimada 
Nagaraya Grama Niladhari division until it meets the 
intersection point of uma Oya.Thence a line drawn along 
the centerline of uma Oya until it meets the Northwestern 
boundary of No. 59-d divethotawela Grama Niladhari 
division.
East:
From the last-mentioned point, a line drawn southwards of 
North east boundary of 50-d divethotawela Grama Niladhari 
division until it meets the center point of ukwatte Kandura. 
Thence a line drawn along the ukwatte kandura until it 
meets the center point of b-44 Welimada bandarawela Main 
road of dambavinna Grama Niladhari division. Thence 
a line drawn southeastwards, eastwards, southeastwards, 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.10.2023
3a
eOG 10 - 0011
Northwestwards until it meets the intersection point of  
b - 508 Welimada Haputhale main road.
 
South: 
From the last-mentioned point a line drawn along the 
southern boundary of No. 59-a  dambavinna Grama 
Niladhari division until it meets the b-48 Welimada 
boralanda main road. Thence a line drawn W estwards until 
it meets the intersection point of Galpotta kandura. thence a 
line drawn Northwards, Northwestwards until it meets center 
point of Kudo Oya. Thence a line drawn southwestwards 
along the Kudo Oya until it meets the southern boundary 
of 50-1 Puranwela Grama Niladhari division. Thence a line 
drawn Westwards, Northwestwards southwestwards, along 
the southern boundary of 50-I Puranwela Grama Niladhari 
division until it meets the intersection point of b-353 
Keppetipola boralanda Main road.
West:
From the last-mentioned point a line drawn southwestwards, 
Northwestwards, W estwards and Northwards along the 
southern boundary of No. 50 Palugama Grama Niladhari 
division until it meets the starting point located on a-5 
Peradeniya chenkaladi main road.
Column I Column II
scHeduLe (Contd.)
Expansion of w elimada urban Development Area
PrIntED at thE DEPartMEnt OF gOVErnMEnt PrIntIng,  srI LanKa.