

<!-- page 1 -->

199
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2025. 04'17
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka - 17.04.2025
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(P ublished by Authority)
PART  II  — LeGAL
(Separate paging is given to each Language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
ImPoRTAnT   noTIce  ReGARDInG   AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS  
foR   PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekL y  “GAzeTTe”
Attention  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of pub lication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.   
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  09th May 2025 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th April , 2025.                                
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 K.G. Pradeep Pushpa kumara,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
02
nd January, 2025.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
25 - 82673- 177 (04/2025)
 Page Page
 
Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases  ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... —
Miscellaneous Notices .... 26
 wxl 2"433 - 2025 wfm%a,a ui 17 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2025'04'17  
 No. 2,433 - ThuRSDA y , APRIL 17, 2025


<!-- page 2 -->

26
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2025.04'17
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka - 17.04.2025
Miscellaneous Notices
PARLIAmenT
An Act to Incorporate the hira foundation
I, hon. (Dr.) M. L. A. M. hizbullah M.P., do hereby give notice under Standing Order No. 53(1) of the Standing Order of 
the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, that I propose to introduce to Parliament a Bill titled "An 
Act to incorporate the hira Foundation". The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Institution which has the following 
general objects :-
1. To promote and improve all the rights of women and children.
2. To take steps to preserve and protect the moral and cultural values of the people.
3. To provide physical and qualitative assistance and support to schools so that low-income school students can 
effectively carry out their educational activities.
4. To establish and conduct a non-state university for higher education.
5. To provide support and assistance to develop educational, religious, cultural, artistic and sports facilities without 
discrimination of race, religion, caste and creed and to organize various festivals and competitions.
04-133
PRINTED   AT   ThE   DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING,   SRI LANKA.