

<!-- page 1 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
561
561
¡â¤ 1 ,447 _ 2006  ˜æ˘œ 26 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2006.05.26
No. 1,447 – FRIDAY ,  MAY 26,  2006
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 564
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 567
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 02nd June, 2006 should reach the Government Press on
or before 12 noon on 19th May, 2006.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2006.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
N. B.– Quarterly Statement of Books for January-March, 1999 has been Published on Part V of the Gazette No. 1,447 of 26.05.2006.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
562
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
563
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
B2—B 079209

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
564
Posts - Vacant
REGISTRAR GENERAL’S DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births, and  Deaths - Galle District
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should  be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and  influence in the area.
03. Both  male and Female can apply for these  posts.
04. Applicants should  be not less than 21  years and not more  than 60 years of age.
05. Applicants should  be married.
06. Details regarding educational  and other  qualifications  etc. could  be obtained from  the notices exhibited  in public places  such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries,  Divisional  Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development  Societies
and Co-operative Societies in the  Division.
07. Application forms are  obtainable from  the offices of District Secretaries  (Government  Agents) and  Land  and District
Registries. Applications  should be sent by registered post  to the address given  in the Schedule on or before  26th June  2006.
L. K. R
ATHNASIRI ,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 280,  Main Street, Colombo 11.
03rd May, 2006.
Schedule
District Divisional Division and  Post  for which Address  to which
Secretary’ s applications are called applications should
Division be sent
Galle Baddegama Post  of Registrar  of marriages (General) in Gangaboda District Secretary/ Addi.
Pattu Division  and Births and deaths in Thelikada Registrar  General, Disrrict
Division in Galle District. Secretariat, Galle
do. Karandeniya Post  of Registrar of marriages (General) in Wellaboda do.
 Pattu and births and deaths in Karandeniya West
in Galle District
do. Balapitiya Post  of Registrar of marriages (General) Hegalla do.
area in Walallawita Korale West in Galle District
do. Bentota Post of Additional  Registrar of marriages (General) do.
Bentota  Walallawita Korale Division in Galle
District
05-363

<!-- page 5 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
565
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S     DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births, and  Deaths-Anuradhapura  District
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should  be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and  influence in the area.
03. Both  male and Female can apply for these  posts.
04. Applicants should  be not less than 21  years and not more  than 60 years of age.
05. Applicants should  be married.
06. Details regarding educational  and other  qualifications  etc. could  be obtained from  the notices exhibited  in public places  such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries,  Divisional  Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development  Societies
and Co-operative Societies in the  Division.
07. Application forms are  obtainable from  the offices of District Secretaries  (Government  Agents) and  Land  and District
Registries. Applications  should be sent by registered post  to the address given  in the Schedule on or before  03 rd July,  2006.
L. K. R
ATHNASIRI ,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 280,  Main Street, Colombo 11.
4th May, 2006
Schedule
District Divisional Division and  Post  for which Address  to which
Secretary’ s applications are called applications should
Division be sent
Anuradhapura Nuwaragam Post  of  Additional Registrar  of marriages District Secretary/Addl.
Palatha East (Kandyan/General) in Anuradhapura New Registrar General, District
Town Division Secretariat Anuradhapura
05-364
MINISTRY  OF  PUBLIC  ADMINISTRATION  AND
HOME  AFFAIRS
Registrar General's Department
Recruitment to the Post of Book Binder
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited for the recruitment to the Post
of Book Binders in the Registrar General's Department.
02. This interview will be held by the Registrar General in
Colombo.
03. Conditions of Service :
1. This post is permanent and pensionable and will be entitled
to a pension under the Contributory Pension Fund.
2. If a person who held a pensionable post before 01.01.2003
is selected to this post he/she will be further entitled to a
pension under the Pensions Code and contributions should
be made to the Widow/Widower and Orphan Children's
Pension Fund.
3. Section 10 - 12 in Chapter 11 in the Establishment Code
shall apply.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
566
4. New Entrants to Public Service will be subject to a period of
probation of three (03) years.
5. Selected applicants should pass the Efficiency  Bar before
lapse of 03 years of appointment to the post and no
exemptions from this E.B. will be granted based on age.
04. Salary Group and Scale.— TB - 2 - 1
Rs. 101,880 - 14 x 1,320 - 6 x 1,560 - Rs. 129,720
Public Administration Circular No. 9/2004.
05. Age Limit.— Age should be not less than 18 years and not
more than 45 years. This maximum age limit will not apply to the
officers who are already engaged in Public / Provincial Public Service.
06. Educational Qualifications
I. For external applicants :
(a) should have passed the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in
six subjects including Sinhala / Tamil / English Language
and Mathematics / Arithmatic / Commercial
Arithmatic in not more than two sittings.
(should have passed at least 05 subjects in one sitting)
or
(b) Should have passed the National Certificate of General
Education Examination in 06 subjects including
Sinhala / Tamil / Englilsh Language and Mathematics
/ Arithmatic / Commercial Arithmatic in not more
than two sittings,
(should have passed at least 05 subjects in one sitting)
and
three years of experience in book-binding
or
should have passed Grade 08 (year 09) and possessed
06 years of experience in book-binding.
II.For internal applicants :
(a) Employees of Class - I and I - A in the Karyala
Sevaka Service (Office Assistants’ Service) or
employees of Class II of the same service with 06
years of service in that class with a permanent and
satisfactory period of service of 08 years or more in
the Registrar General’s Department.
(i) On instances when there are no sufficient number
of employees with these qualifications,
employees who have completed 03 years of
service in Class II of the K.K.S. Service and
possess a period of Service of 08 years or more
in the Registrar General’s Department will be
considered.
(ii)Satisfactory service period means the preceding
05 years of service during which all increments
have been earned and the employee had not been
subjected to any punishment other than warning.
07. Scheme of Recruitment.— 75% of the existing vacancies will
be filled from the external applicants and 25% from the internal
applicants.
I. External Applicants :
(a) Selections will be made from among the eligible
applicants once selected through a notice in the
Government Gazette or paper notice who obtain
highest marks at the practical test conducted by the
Director, National Archives as decided by the
Registrar General and at the structured interview
which will be conducted by the Registrar General.
(b) Syllabus and the marking scheme of the practical test
and the structured interview have been laid out in the
Annexe 02.
II.Internal Applicants :
(a) Selections will be made from among the eligible
applicants who obtain the highest marks at the
practical test conducted by the Director, National
Archives as decided by the Registrar General and at
the structured interview which will be conducted by
the Registrar General.
(b) Syllabus and the marking scheme of the practical test
and the structured interview have been laid out in the
Annexe 03.
08. Applications duly perfected as per specimen appended to
this notice should be sent under  registered cover to Registrar General,
Registrar General’s Department, No. 280, Main Street, Colombo 11
to reach him on or before 26.06.2006.
09. The words “Recruitment to the post of Book Binder” should
be clearly written on the top left corner of the envelope containing
the application. Applications should be complete in every respect.
Late applications will be rejected without any notice and complaints
made regarding loss of applications or related documents in post will
not be considered.
10. Officers engaged in Public/Provincial Service should forward
applications through their respective Heads of Departments/
Institutions.
11. If any information willingly furnished by the applicant is
found to be false or if the applicant is found to have deliberately
suppressed any important information or if he/she is proved not
eligible at any stage during the period of service, the applicant will be
liable to be dismissed from service.
L.K. R
ATHNASIRI ,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No.280, Main Street,
Colombo 11.
08th May, 2006.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
567
REGISTRAR GENERAL’S DEPARTMENT
A PPLICATION  FOR  THE  POST  OF  BOOK  BINDER
01. (i) Name (with initials) :————.
(ii)Names denoted by initials :————.
02. (i) Personal Address :————.
(iii)Official Address :————.
03. National Identiy Card No :————.
04.  Date of Birth :————.
Year :————, Month :————, Date :————.
05. Age as on the closing date of application :————.
Years :————, Months :————, Days :————.
06. Sex :————.
07. Civil Status :————.
08. Educational    Qualifications    (attach   copies   of  certificates) :
————.
(i) Experience in book binding (attach certificates) :————.
09. Have you ever been convicted for any offence in a court of
law? :————.
Yes/No (if yes give details) :————.
10. Certificates of the Applicant :
(i) I sincerely  declare  that  the  particulars  given  in  this
application by me are true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge.
(ii) I am aware that if the declaration made herein by me is
found to be false or inacurate, I will be liable to disqualification
before  the  appointment and dismissal if detected after
the appointment.
————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :————.
11. Certificate of the Head of the Department/Institution
(only for applicants engaged in State Service)
I hereby certify that the applicant Mr. ........................................
serves in this Department/Institution. He holds a permanent
pensionable/temporary post. He/She has earned all the increments
during the past period of ....................... years. His work, attendance
and conduct are satisfactory. He/She has not been subject to any
disciplinary punishment (excluding warning) and that He/She can/
cannot be released from his present post if selected to this post.
————,
Signature of the Head of Department/Institute.
Date :————.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Department/Institute :————.
05-336
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Admission to National Colleges of Education to follow a Pre-service Professional Course in Teacher Education - 2007
APPLICATIONS are invited from those with requisite academic qualifications and eligibility to follow a Three year Pre-Service Professional
Course in Teacher Education in National Colleges of Education.
2.0 Eligibility :— A candidate should-
2.1 be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
2.2 possess an excellent character and sound physical and mental health.
2.3 Age should—
2.3.1 not be more than 25 years on 01.01.2007 ;
2.3.2 not be more than 27 years of age on 01.01.2007 for the Buddhist Monks those who apply for Buddhism course ;
2.3.3 not be more than 30 years on 01.01.2007 for the Catholic/Christian Clergy only.
2.4 be unmarried.
3.0 Basic Educational Qualifications :
3.1 Passed three subjects in one sitting at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination (two passes in one sitting for Sri Pada National College
of Education) held in 2005.
(Applicants for technological studies course should refer the note in 4.14 and applicants of Clergy for Catholicism/
Christianity Course should refer the note in 4.10.)
3.2 Passed 6 Subjects in not more than 2 sittings at G. C. E. (O/L) Exmination/Preliminary Pirivena Final Examination
including Mathematic and Sinhala/Tamil Language. (Passing five subjects in the first sitting) with 3 credit passes.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
568
3.3 If the special requirements at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination mentioned under 3.2 are not Completed in two sittings, they
should have been completed in the third sitting. All the qualifications should have been completed on or before the closing
date of applications.
3.4 Those who apply for English Medium Courses should have a very good pass in English Language/ a Credit pass in English
Literature at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination.
4.0 Educational Qualifications and other Special Requirements :— Educational Qualifications and other special requirements
applicable to Courses in National Colleges of Education are as follows :
4.1 Course No.01 - Primary Education :
4.1.1 Three passes including Sinhala/Tamil Language in one sitting at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in 2005 (two
passes in one sitting for Sri Pada National College of Education), and
4.1.2 Passed six subjects at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination including Mathematics with Credit pass in Sinhala/Tamil
Language and 2 other subjects. (Minimum 3 Credit passes).
4.2 Course No. 02 - i Science (Sinhala)
02 - ii Science (Tamil)
02 -iii Science (English)
4.2.1 Three Passes in the following subjects : Physics, Chemistry and Biology in one sitting at G. C. E. (A/L) Examina-
tion held in 2005 (Two passes in one sitting in the above subjects for Sri Pada National College of Education), and
4.2.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects with a pass in Sinhala/Tamil Language and a Credit Pass in
Mathematics 32 or in Mathematics 42 and
4.3 Course No.  03 - i Mathematics (Sinhala)
03 - ii Mathematics (Tamil)
03 - iii Mathematics (English)
4.3.1 Three passes in any of the following subjects ; Mathematics, Combined Mathematics, Higher Mathematics,
Physics, Chemistry, in one sitting at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in 2005 (Two Passes in one of the following
subjects including Mathematics, Combined Mathematics and Higher Mathematics for Sri Pada National College of
Education) and
4.3.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects with a pass in Sinhala/Tamil Language and a credit pass in Science 34.
4.4 Course No.  04 - i  Physical Education (Sinhala)
04 - ii  Physical Education (Tamil)
04 - iii Physical Education (English)
4.4.1 Passed any three subjects in one sitting at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in 2005 and
4.4.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects with passes in Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics and
4.4.3 Competency obtained relating to recognized Track and Field Athletics and organized Sports.
A maximum of 75 marks will be awarded for three various games/events in the following priority order.
Priority Order of Sports/Events :
Se. No. Levels/Subject Single Team Place/Grade Marks
1 International Level single - 1 25
2 International Level single - 2 24
3 International Level single - 3 23
4 International Level - team 1 22
5 International Level - team 2 21
6 International Level - team 3 20
7 International Level single team - 19
participation
8 National Level single - 1 18
9 National Level single - 2 17
10 National Level single - 3 16
11 National Level - team 1 15
12 National Level - team 2 14
13 National Level - team 3 13
14 Provincial Level single - 1 12
15 Provincial Level single - 2 11
16 Provincial Level single - 3 10
17 Provincial Level - team 1 09
18 Provincial Level - team 2 08

<!-- page 9 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
569
19 Provincial Level - team 3 07
20 Regiment Sergeant Major/Warrant Officer 1 - - - 06
21 Presidents’ Scout and Girl Guide - - - 06
22 Sergeant Major/Warrant Officer 2 - - - 05
23 Distict Level/Zonal/ Single - 1 06
Divisional Secretariat Level
24 District Level/Zonal/ Single - 2 05
Divisional Secretariat Level
25 District Level/Zonal/ Single - 3 04
Divisional Secretariat Level
26 District Level/Zonal/ - team 1 03
Divisional Secretariat Level
27 District Level/Zonal/ - team 2 02
Divisional Secretariat Level
28 District Level/Zonal/ - team 3 01
Divisional Secretariat Level
4.4.4 If a candidate had passed in Health and Physical Education at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination will be given
additional marks as follows :
Grade Marks
A0 4
B0 3
C0 2
S0 1
Note : (i)Recognized Sports Competitions (International) :
Participation in International Competitions by representing Sri Lankan National Teams or School National Sports
Teams (except Chess, Carrom and Draught) through Ministry of Education/Ministry of Sports and their registered
Sports Associations.
(School Sports Teams participating personally for International Competitions shall not be  considered).
(ii)Recognized Sports competitions - National level competitions organized by the Ministry of Education/Ministry of
Sports/National Youth Services Council.
Provincial level competitions organized by the Provincial Ministry of Education/ Provincial Ministry of Sports/
National Youth Services Council.
District level competitions organized by the Provincial Ministry of Sports/ National Youth Services Council.
Zonal Educational level competitions organized by the Provincial Ministry of Education.
(iii)1st, 2nd and 3rd places in “A grade” competitions organized by Sports Associations registered under the Ministry of
Sports and Ministry of Education only will be given priority in order.
(iv) Sports competencies should have been achieved within the preceding 5 years before the closing date of applications.
(v) Marks will be awarded to the highest certificate obtained for the same event, same age group and during the same year
out of three certificates.
4.5 Course No. 05- 05-i  Home Economics and Food Technology (Sinhala)
05-ii Home Economics and Food Technology (Tamil)
4.5.1 Three passes including Home Economics in one sitting at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in year 2005, and
4.5.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects with Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and Science with a
Credit pass.
Se. No. Levels/Subject Single Team Place/Grade Marks
B 6  – B 079265

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
570
4.6 Course No. 06- English :
4.6.1 Three passes in one sitting including English (Not General English) at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in 2005 and
Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination/London G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in 6 subjects including Sinhala/Tamil
Language, Mathematics and very good pass in English Language/a Credit pass in English Literature.
4.6.2 Passed any three subjects in one sitting at G. C. E.(A/L) Examination held in 2005 and three subjects including
English Language at London  G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in 2005 and passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination/
London G. C. E. (O/L) in 6 subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and very good pass in English
Language/a Credit pass in English Literature, or
4.6.3 Passed any three subjects in one sitting at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in 2005 and passed G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination/London (O/L) Examination in 6 subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics with a
very good pass in English Language/a Credit pass in English Literature
(Note : (i) In selection, priority will be given to those who are qualified under 4.6.1 and 4.6.2. They need not
to sit for the Proficiency Test and their qualifications should be proved at the interview.
(ii)Candidates who are qualified under 4.6.3 should sit for the proficiency test).
4.7 Course No. 07- Buddhism :
Both Buddhist monks and the laity can apply for the Course of Buddhism. All requirements should be completed in the
year 2005 or before. (Laity candidates should have completed all educational qualifications in their laity name in the year
2005 or before).
4.7.1 Three passes in one sitting including one of the following subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in 2005 :
Buddhism, Buddhist Civilization, Pali'
4.7.2 Passed Pracheena Preliminary Examination (only for Buddhist monks).
4.7.3 Passed Bauddha Dharmacharya Exmanination.
4.7.4 Passed Daham School Final Examination.
4.7.5 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjectss with Sinhala, Buddhism and Mathematics/ passed the Primary
Pirivena Final Examination in six subjects with Sinhala, Mathematics and Tripitaka Dharmaya.
Note : i Priority order in selection :
(a) Candidates having all the certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.2, 4.7.3, 4.7.4, 4.7.5
(b) Candidates having certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.2 and 4.7.5
(c) Candidates having certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.3 and 4.7.5
(d) Candidates having certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.4 and 4.7.5
(e) Candidates having certificates 4.7.1 and 4.7.5
4.8 Course No. 08- Hinduism :
4.8.1 Three passes in one sitting including one of the following subjects at G. C. E.(A/L)
Examination held in  2005 : Hinduism, Hindu Civilization, Sanskrit.
4.8.2 Candidates having Shaiva Siddhantha Pandithar Certificate
4.8.3 Candidates having Shaiva Pulaver Certificate.
4.8.4 Candidates having Ilang Shaiva Pulaver Certificate.
4.8.5 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects including Tamil Language, Mathematics and Hinduism.
Note : Priority order in selection :
(a) Candidates having all the certificates including 4.8.1 and 4.8.5.
(b) Candidates having certificates 4.8.1, 4.8.4, 4.8.5 and one certificate out of other two.
(c) Candidates having certificate 4.8.1, 4.8.5 and one certificates out of other three.
(d) Candidates having certificates 4.8.1 and 4.8.5.
All the requirements mentioned above should have been completed in 2005 or before.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
571
4.9 Course No. 09 - Islam
4.9.1 Three passes in one sitting at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in 2005 including one of the following subjects,
Islam, Islamic Civilization and Arabic.
4.9.2 Passed Al - Alim Examination (Part and Part II)
4.9.3 Moulavi Certificate and Al-Alim part I
4.9.4 Moulavi certificate
4.9.5 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects with Tamil Language, Mathematics and Islam.
Note : Priority order in selection :
(a) Candidates having all the certificates including 4.9.1 and 4.9.5,
(b) Candidates having certificates 4.9.1 , 4.9.3 , 4.9.4 and 4.9.5,
(c) Candidates having certificates 4.9.1, 4.9.4 and 4.9.5,
(d) Candidates having certificates 4.9.1 and 4.9.5,
All the requirements mentioned above should have been completed in 2005 or before.
4.10 Course No.10 - Catholicism/Christianity :
4.10.1 Three passes in one sitting at G. C. E.(A/L) Exmination held in 2005 and followed the course of Theology (BTH),
or
4.10.2 Three passes including Christianity in one sitting at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in 2005 and a pass in
Teachers Certificate of Catholicism conducted by the National Cathecatical Centre, or
4.10.3 Three passes in one sitting at  G. C. E. (A/L) Exmination held in 2005 and the Diploma in Catholicism conducted
by Deva Dharma Nikethanaya, or
4.10.4 Three passes in one sitting at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in 2005 and Teachers' Certificate in Catholicism
conducted by the Catholic Bishop's Diocision Level,or
4.10.5 Three passes in one sitting at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in 2005 and Dharmavedi Diploma Certificate
conducted by the Lanka Theological College at Pilimatalawa, or
4.10.6 Three passes in one sitting at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in 2005 and National Certificate (Dharmacharya)
in Religious knowledge conducted by the National Christian Council, and
4.10.7 Passed  G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in 6 subjects with passes in Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and a credit
pass in Christianity/Christianity (R. C.).
Note :
i. In selection 85% of the total number of admissions will be called for the interview from Chatholic
applicants who qualify under 4.10.1, 4.10.2, 4.10.3, 4.10.4. according to the priority order.
ii. In selection, 15% of the total number of admissions will be called for the Interview from Chirstian
applicants who qualify under 4.10.5, 4.10.6 according to the priority order.
iii.40% of the admissions will be selected from the Chatholic/Christian Clergy. If the required number
of candidates who passed the G. C. E. (A/L) in the year 2005 is not available selection will be done
from the clergy who have passed the G. C. E. (A/L) in the years 2004, 2003 and 2002. If 40% of the
candidates from the clergy is not available, the laity will be selected.
Indicate whether the religion is Catholicism/Christianity in the space allocated for Course Name in
the application.)
4.11 Course No.11 - Library Science and Information Studies :
4.11.1  Three passes in one sitting at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in 2005 ; and
4.11.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and very good
pass for English Language/a credit pass in English Literature.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
572
4.12 Course No.12 -Special Education :
4.12.1 Passed any three subjects in one sitting at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in 2005 ; and
4.12.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects with Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics.
4.13 Course No.13-Agriculture :
4.13.1 Three passes including Agriculture in one sitting at G. C. E.(A/L) Examination held in 2005, and
4.13.2 Passed G.C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language, with credit passes in
Mathematics and science.
4.14 Course No.14- Technology Studies :
4.14.1 Three passes in one sitting at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in 2005 ; and
4.14.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination.
4.14.2.1Construction Technology :
Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects with Mathematics and Sinhala/Tamil Language and
including one subject out of Wood Work/Masonry/Construction Technology ; or
4.14.2.2.Mechanical Technology :
Passed G. C. E.(O/L) Examination is six subjects with Mathematics and Sinhala/ Tamil Language and
one of the subjects of Metal Work/Motor Mechanism/Machanical Technology ; or
4.14.2.3Electrical and Electronic Technology :
Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination  in six subjects with Mathematics and Sihala/ Tamil Language and
one of the subjects of Radio Mechanism/Electrical and Electronic Technology ; or
4.14.2.4Arts and Crafts Technology :
Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects with Mathematics and Sinhala/Tamil Language and
one of the subjects of Weaving/Pottery/Arts and Crafts ; and
4.14.3 Should have followed and successfully completed a Technical Course relevant to the Subject area of not less than
10 months duration which is formally issued indicating the subject performance level and conducted by a
Government approved Technical College/National Apprenticeship Board/Vocational Training Authority/Textile
Industries Department/Small Industries Department.
4.14.4 Should have successfully completed a course related to the above mentioned courses in Non-formal Education
Resource Centre.
Note :
(i) Priority order of Selection :
(a) Candidates having Certificates 4.14.1, 4.14.2, 4.14.3,
(b) Candidates having Certificates 4.14.1, 4.14.3 and 4.41.4,
(c) Candidates having Certificates 4.14.1 and 4.14.2,
(d) Candidates having Certificates 4.14 and 4.14.2.
(ii) In the application it should be clearly stated as Construction Technology/Mechanical Technology/Electric,
Electronic Technology/Arts and Crafts.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
573
(iii)All requirements indicated above, should have been completed on or before the last date of calling for
applications.
(iv)Please indicated the priority order of applications forwarded under (1) (a) (b)(c) above in the cage
provided for the “Name of the Technical Course” under 17.0 in the application.
(v) If a sufficient number of candidates qualified G. C. E. (A/L) in the year 2005 with the requirements of
4.14.3 are not available, the applications candidates who have passed G. C. E. (A/L) in year 2004 and 2003
with the requirements of 4.14.3 will be considered.)
4.15 Course No.15-Art
4.15.1 Three Passes including Art in one sitting at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in the year 2005, and Passed
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects including Art, Mathematics Sinhala/Tamil Language.
4.15.2 Additional marks will be awarded based on the Grade obtained in G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in the year 2005 for
Art/Art and Sculpture.
Note : (i) if sufficient number of candidates who have fulfilled all qualifications under 4.15 are not available,
candidates who have passed in three subjects in one sitting in the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in the year 2005
and who have passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination with a pass in Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics and
with a credit pass for Arts will be called for the interview.
4.16 Course No.16- Dance (Oriental)/Dance (Bharatha)
4.16.1 Three passes including Oriental Dance/Bharatha Natyam in one sitting at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in
the year 2005 (Two passes including the for above subjects Sri Pada National College of Education.).
4.16.2 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained in G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in the year
2005 for Dance (Oriental)/Dance (Bharatha Natyam).
4.16.3 Passed G.C. E (O/L) Examination in six subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and Oriental
Dance/Bharatha Natyam.
(Note :
(i) If sufficient number of candidates who have fulfilled the relevant qualification for Sri Pada National College of
Education are not available, applications of candidates who have passed in two subjects in one sitting in the
G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in the year 2005 with a credit passes for Bharatha Natyam in G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination will be considered.)
4.17 Course No.17 - Music (Oriental)/Music (Carnatic)
4.17.1 Three passes including Oriental Music/Carnatic Music in one sitting at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in the
year 2005 (Two passes including the above subjects for Sri Pada National College of Education) ; and
4.17.2 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained in G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in the year
2005 for the subject of Music (Oriental)/Music (Carnatic).
4.17.3 Passed G. C. E.(O/L) Examination in six subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and Oriental
Music/Carnatic Music.
(Note : (i) If sufficient number of candidates who have fulfilled the relevant qualifications for Sri Pada
National College of Education are not available, applications of candidates who have passed in two
subjects in one sitting in the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in the year 2005 and with a credit pass
for the Carnatic Music at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination will be considered.).
4.18 Course No.18- Western Music
4.18.1 Three passes inculding Western Music in one sitting at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in the year 2005 ; and
Passed G. C. E.(O/L) Examination in six subjects with passes in Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics, Western
Music and  a very good Pass in English Language/a Credit pass in English Literature ; or

<!-- page 14 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
574
4.18.2 Any three passes in one sitting at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in the year 2005 and
Passed six subjects at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination with Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and a Distinction
pass or a Credit Pass in Western Music and a very good pass in English Language/a credit pass in English
Literature and
Passed Grade 5 of Western Music (theory and practical) From a recognized institute approved by the Colleges
of Education Board.
(Note:i. Candidates should reach a satisfactory level of performance at the Practical Test conducted for
Western Music course.
ii. In selection priority will be given to applicants qualifying under 4.18.1)
4.19 Course No.19 - Darma and Theatre
4.19.1 Three passes including Drama and Theatre in one sitting in G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in the year 2005 and
4.19.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects including Music or Dance or Arts and Mathematics and
Sinhala/Tamil Language.
4.19.3 An additional marks will be awarded based on the Grade obtained in the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in year
2005 for the subject of Drama and Theatre.
4.20 Course No. 20 - Information Communication Technology
4.20.1 Passed any three subjects in G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in year 2005 in one sitting (two passes for Sri Pada
National College of Education)
4.20.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and with a very good pass in
English Language/ a credit pass in English Literature and a credit pass in Mathematics.
4.21 Course No.21-i   Social Seience (Sinhala)
21-ii  Social Science (Tamil)
21-iii Social Science (English)
4.21.1 Three Passes in one sitting in G. C. E.(A/L) Examination held in year 2005 including one subject out of History,
Political Science, Economics and Geography (Two subjects for Sri Pada National College of Education) and
4.21.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language, and Mathematics and credit
pass in Social Science and History.
4.22 Course No.22 - First Language (Tamil)
4.22.1 Passed G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in the year 2005 in three subjects including credit pass for Tamil (two subjects
including Tamil Language for Sri Pada National College of Education)
4.22.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects including Mathematics and credit pass for Tamil language.
4.23 Course No. 23 - i  Second Language (Sinhala)
23- ii  Second Language (Tamil)
4.23.1 (i) Candidates for Second Language (Sinhala) Course should have passed G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in the
year 2005 in three subjects including credit pass in Tamil Language in one sitting and
4.23.2 Passed Optional Second Language (Sinhala) 64 G.C. E. (O/L) Examination and
4.23.3 Passed G. C. E.(O/L) Examination in six subjects including  Tamil Language and Mathematics.
4.23.1 (ii) Candidates for Second Language (Tamil) course should have passed G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in the
year 2005 in three subjects including a credit pass for Sinhala Language in one sitting and
4.23.2 Passed Optional Second Language (Tamil) 65 G. C. E. (O/L) Examination and
4.23.3 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects including Sinhala and Mathematics.
4.24 Course No. 24 - French
4.24.1 Passed G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in the year 2005 in three subjects including French in one sitting and G. C. E.
(O/L) Examination in Six subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics and a very good pass in
English Language/ a credit pass in English Literature.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
575
5.0 Number of the course, Name of the Course and the Medium of the National Colleges of Education where each course will
be conducted and the respective numbers of the NCOE are given below.
(Refer the chart carefully and identify the number of your course correctly before filling in the application form. Your
application will be computerized by your Course number. Applications that are filled incorrectly will be rejected. No alteration is permitted
after your application is sent to the Department of Examinations.)
(i) Column - Course Number
(ii)Column - Course Name
(iii)Column - NCOEs where Sinhala medium Courses are conducted.
(iv) Column - NCOEs where Tamil medium Courses are conducted.
(v) Column - NCOEs where English medium Courses are conducted.
(The numbers of the NCOE are given within brackets)
Course No. Course Name NCOEE by Courses and Numbers
Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium English Medium
i ii iii iv v
01 Primary (1) Uva (6) Vavuniya
(6) Vavuniya (7) Sri Pada
(7) Sri Pada (8) Addalaichenai
(11) Pulathisipura (9) Batticaloa
(13) Ruwanpura (14) Ruhuna
(14) Ruhuna (15) Jaffna
(17) Hapitigam (16) Dharga Town
02 Science i, ii, iii (2) Nilwala (6) V avuniya (2) Nilwala
(5) Siyane (7) Sri Pada (5) Siyane
(7) Sri Pada (9) Batticaloa (15) Jaffna
(8) Addalaichenai
03 Mathematics i, ii, iii (2) Nilwala (7) Sri Pada (2) Nilwala
(5) Siyane (8) Addalaichenai (5) Siyane
(7) Sri Pada (9) Batticaloa (15) Jaffna
04 Physical Education i, ii, iii (1) Uva (6) Vavuniya (1) Uva
(2) Nilwala (8) Addalaichenai (2) Nilwala
(14) Ruhuna
05 Food Technology and Home Economics (14) Ruhuna (6) Vavuniya
(16) Dharga Town
06 English (3) Mahaweli
(10) Pasdunrata
(15) Jaffna
07 Baddhism (4) Sariputta
08 Hindusim (6) Vavuniya
09 Islam (8) Addalaichenai
10 Catholicism/Christianity (12) Wayamba (6) Vavuniya

<!-- page 16 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
576
11 Library Science and Information Studies (3) Mahaweli
(10) Pasdunrata
(15) Jaffna
12 Special Education (17) Hapitigam (15) Jaffna
(16) Dharga Town
13 Agriculture (11) Pulathisipura (6) Vavuniya
14 Technical Studies (5) Siyane (9) Batticaloa
15 Art (12) Wayamba (8) Addalaichenai
(15) Jaffna
16 Dance (Oriental)/ (12) Wayamba
Dance (Bharatha) (7) Sri Pada
(15) Jaffna
17 Music (Oriental)/ (12) Wayamba
Music (Carnatic) (7) Sri Pada
(15) Jaffna
18 Western Music (3) Mahaweli
19 Drama and Theatre (12) Wayamba (15) Jaffna
20 Information (2) Nilwala
Communication (5) Siyane
Technology (6) Vavuniya
(7) Sri Pada
(8) Addalaichenai
(9) Batticaloa
(11) Pulathisipura
(12) Wayamba
(13) Ruwanpura
(14) Ruhuna
(16) Dharga Town
21 Social Science (13) Ruwanpura (7) Sri Pada  (1) Uva
(9) Batticaloa (13) Ruwanpura
22 First Language (Tamil) (7) Sri Pada
(9) Batticaloa
(16) Dharga Town
23 Second Language i, ii (14) Ruhuna (6) Vavuniya
24 French (10) Pasdunrata
Course No. Course Name NCOEE by Courses and Numbers
Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium English Medium
i ii iii iv v

<!-- page 17 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
577
Note :
i. Only Muslim candidates should apply for the Addalaichchenai National College of Education.
ii. Only Tamil medium female applicants should apply to Dharga Town National College of Education.
iii.Bharatha Dance, Carnatic Music, First Language courses are conducted only in Tamil medium and the Oriental Dance and
Oriental Music courses are conducted only in Sinhala medium and the  Western Music, Library Science and information
Studies, information Communication Technology courses are conducted only in English Medium.
6.0 Procedures for selection of students for 2007
6.1 Basis of Selection :
6.1.1 The number of students to be admitted will be decided on the basis of teacher  cadre requirements in the school
system in year 2010.
6.1.2 The basis of selection will be the Z score.
Selection for all courses accept for Sri Pada National College of Education will be 50% on National Level and 50%
on difficult District Level.
6.1.3 Applicants for English medium courses in English Language, Library Science and Information Studies, Science,
Mathematics, Western Music, Physical Education, Information Communication Technology and Social Science
should qualify in 6 subjects at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination with passes in Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics
including a very good pass in English Language/ a credit pass in English Literature.
6.1.4 Applicants should reach a satisfactory level at the practical test conducted for Physical Education, Dance (Oriental)/
Dance (Bharatha), Music (Oriental)/ Music (Carnatic) and Western Music courses.
6.2 Difficult District basis :
6.2.1 Admission for difficult districts will be made from candidates those who belong to the 17 districts treated as difficult,
based on the distribution of educational qualifications. Number to be admitted from each district will be decided for
each course proportional to the number of students who sat for G. C. E. (A/L) examination in the all media in each
district.
6.2.2 If the expected number to be selected from each difficult Districts is not available, places will be filled from other
difficult districts.
6.2.3 Difficult Districts and Numbers :
Matale 04 Batticaloa 16
NuwaraEliya 06 Ampara 17
Hambantota 09 Puttalam 18
Jaffna 10 Anuradhapura 20
Kilinochchi 11 Polonnaruwa 21
Mannar 12 Ba dulla 22
Mulativu 13 Monaragala 23
V avuniya 14 Ratnapura 25
Trincomale 15
6.2.4 Determination of District :
6.2.4.1 The district of any school candidate will be the district of the location of the  school/schools in which he/
she had studied during the entire or the major part of the five year (more than two and half years) period
ending on the last day of the month immediately preceding the month in which he/she had sat the G. C. E.
(A/L) Examination at the first sitting.
6.2.4.2 If any private candidate had left school after having previously sat the G. C. E. (A/L) Examiantion as a
school candidate, his district will be the district of location of the school from which he had first sat the
above examination.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
578
6.2.4.3 If any private candidate has left school without having previously sat for the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination
as a school candidate, his/her district will be the district of location of the school or schools in which
he/she has studied during the entire or the major part of the five year (more than two and half years) period
ending on the last day of the month immediately preceding the month in which he/she had sat the G. C. E.
(A/L) Examination at the first sitting.
6.2.4.4 If any private candidate has not studied in a school he/she should confirm his/her district of residence with
the Voter’s list of Election Commissioner’s office or Grama Niladhari and Divisional Secretary’s affidavit.
6.3 Selections for Sri Pada National College of Education :
6.3.1 75% of the number of vacancies will be filled by applicants of Indian Tamil Origin and 25% from Sinhalese
applicants.
6.3.2 75% will be selected to Tamil medium courses  and 25% will be selected to Sinhala medium courses.
6.3.3 Primary, Mathematics and Science courses will be conducted in Sinhala medium and Primary, Mathematics,
Science, Carnatic Music, Bharatha Dance, and First Language (Tamil) Social Science courses will be conducted in
Tamil medium and Information Communication Technology Course in English medium.
6.3.4 Applications will be entertained only from the children of the residents of following estate districts : Nuwara
Eliya, Kandy, Matale, Badulla, Ratnapura, Kegalle, Kalutara, Matara, Galle and Kurunegala to Sri pada National
College of Education.
6.3.5 In selection the priority will be given to the children of estate wokers residing in the estate districts mentioned
above. The children of estate workers and registered private companies should produce a letter of the estate
superintendent (mentioning the period during which the worker serves) and letters stating the contribution to the
E.P. F with their registration numbers at the interview. The district will be decided on the same basis of the
districts mentioned under 6.2.2 for Sri Pada National College of Education.
6.3.6 In selection at least one candidate will be considered for each relevant district.
(NOTE .- Candidates of Indian Origins who have studied in Sinhala Medium will be considered under the
percentage entitled to Indian Origin. Similarly Sinhala candidate who has studied in Tamil Medium will be
considered under Sinhala Medium percentage.).
7.0 Other particulars relating to Selection :
7.1 Applicants should produce valid documents and original certificates to prove their eligibility for the particular course at
the interview date. More applicants than the required number will be called for interviews.
7.2 Candidates who fail to submit the originals of all certificates on the date of the interview will not be selected.
7.3 If the Board of Interview considers it necessary that an applicant face a special Board of Interview in order to ascertain
the mental or physical status for enrollment in the Course, the applicant will be called upon to face such interview. The
report of the special Board of Interview will be submitted to the Colleges of Education Board, for a final decision.
7.4 Selected applicants, who fail to get themselves registered in the respective National College of Education within three
days from the specified registration date, will forego their chances of admission and the resulted vacancies will be filled
according to the merit order. When there are not vacancies in NCOE applied for provision will be made for admission to
a NCOE where  vacancies exists for the relevant post.
7.5 All the selected applicants should undergo a medical examination prior to the admission to prove their mental and
physical fitness to serve in any part of the island.
7.6 It is not permitted to change the course or the National College of Education once selected. If sufficient numbers of
candidates are not available for a particular course in any NCOE, the selected candidates will be transferred to another near
by NCOE, where such courses are conducted.
7.7 In selecting candidates for a Course, if the number of applicants  who have obtained the same Z score at the G. C. E.
(A/L) is in excess of the number of places available, the results obtained by the applicants at the G. C. E. (O/L) at the first
sitting will be considered. Candidates will be selected on the basis of their total marks obtained from the 8 core subjects ;
3 marks for a Distinction pass, 2 marks for a Credit pass and 1 mark for a general pass.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
579
8.0 Persons who are ineligible to apply  or to get admitted to the courses :
8.1 Those who already have teaching appointments in a Government or Private Schools ;
8.2 Those who have been selected to be appointed to Government Schools ;
8.3 Those who are following a course or have followed a course in a National College of Education ;
8.4 Those who are following or have followed an interal course or courses in a University/University Institute/other
Higher Education Institution; where G. C. E. (A/L) is the entry requirment and, those who have completed degree
courses or following a degree courses. It is emphasized that the candidates who failed to cancel the registration of the
universities for the intereview before the closing date of the applications to the National Colleges of Education will
be rejected.
8.5 Those who have been discontinued from a College of Education on disciplinary grounds.
9.0 Conditions related to Traning :
9.1 The duration of the training course is three years. This consist of two years residential institutional training in the
National College of Education and one year of Internship traning attached to  a school. Attendance of a student teacher
should be not less than 90% to sit for the External Final Examination conducted by the Examinations Department at the
end of the 2nd year.
9.2 All trainees should pass the Internal First Year and Second year Examinations and Final External Examination conducted
by the Sri Lanka Examinations Department. All the trainees who follow the courses except the English Course should
obtain a pass in English  in the above  Examinations. Applications should be submitted by only those who are willing to
abide by these requirements.
9.3 A trainee will be provided with food and lodging facilities to the value of Rs.1,500 per month  for a period of 10 months
annually during the two years of residential training. An allowance of Rs. 2,000 per month for a period of 10 months will
be provided during the year of Internship. All the other expenses should be borne by the trainee.
9.4 A trainee will not be allowed to pursue an academic course in University/University Institution/Other Higher Educational
Institute, for which the G. C. E. (A/L) is the entry requirements. If it is proved that a trainee followed such a course, all
the costs incurred will be charged and will be removed from the course.
9.5 If trainees get married during the period of training their registration will be cancelled. The act of disrobing of Buddhist
monks after admission will result in removal from the training. Clergy who are in various religious should enter to an
agreement with the Ministry of Education to serve the Ministry of Education without disrobing for a minimum period of
five years.
9.6 If during the training  period the general conduct, application and academic progress of the trainee is not up to the level
expected, the traniee will be removed forthwith from the training. All those who do not reach a satisfactory level in the
assessment during the first year of academic training or following course in any other institute mentioned under 9.4 will
be likewise be removed. On these matters, the decision of the Colleges of Education Board of the Ministry of Education
will be the final.
9.7 If any complains are made on the physical or mental fitness of the trainee by either President of the College during the
training period or by the Principal of School during the Internship period, the trainee will be sent before a Special
Interview Board, the report of which will be submitted to the Colleges of Education Board for a final decision.
9.8 A Trainee should enter to an agreement with the Ministry of Education undertaking to  pay back the costs incurred by the
Ministry in training, if the training is terminated before the completion of the specified period of 3 years.
9.9 Trainees who satisfactorily complete the course of training will be awarded the National Diploma in Teaching.
Course-work and personality development (inclusive of compulsory co-curricular activities) will be continuously assessed
during the period of training and this assessment will form a component of the final assessment in awarding the Diploma.
9.10 Those who have successfully completed the training course will be considered for appointments as teachers in Government
schools based on the availability of vacancies. In future priority will be given to those who have successfully completed
this training course, in appointing teachers to Government schools. Those who complete the Library Science and
Information Studies course satisfactorily will be qualified to get appointments as Teacher Librarians in Government
schools. Those who are appointed as teachers will have to enter into a bond with the Ministry of Education undertaking
to serve the Ministry for a period of five years from the date of appointment.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
580
9.11 Those who complete the training course successfully but do not accept the employment as teachers in Government
Service should refund the cost of training to the Ministry of Education. They should enter into a bond to this effect.
9.12 All educational and other qualifications should have been completed before the last date of calling for applications.
10.0 Applications :
10.1 A candidate can apply for a maximum of three Courses. If a candidate applies for a Course in two different media, it is
considered that he/she has applied for 2 Courses. Such candidates can apply for another one Course only. For an example
if a candidate applies for a course of Science in Sinhala and English medium, he can apply for another one only.
10.2 A candidate should forward only one application. All applications other than this will be rejected.
10.3 The application should be prepared in accordance with the instructions, in the specimen form given below.
10.4 Applications should be sent under registered post to be received on or before 26th June, 2006, addressed to
“Commissioner-General of Examinations, School Examinations Organization Branch, National Evaluation and Testing
Services, Department of Examinations, P. O. Box 1503, Colombo”.
Information relating to the following texts should be clearly written on the top left-hand corner of the envelope enclosing
the application.
“Application for Admission to National Colleges of Education - 2007 Course indicated as First preference …… and
No. ……”
(It is …… that applications should not be addressed to the Ministry of Education or to the National Colleges of
Education.).
10.5 A photocopy of the application and the postal receipt of registration should accompany any inquiry or appeal regarding
admissions to Colleges of Education. Therefore, these should be retained by the candidate.
10.6 Applications in which the Index Number, Year, Course Number and the Name of the Course incorrectly written, as well
as the incomplete and informal applications will be rejected.
10.7 Applications will not be acknowledged.
10.8 No other documents should be annexed to the application.
10.9 If any certificate submitted by the candidate is subsequently revealed to be forged or fraudulent, such candidate will be
dismissed from the service even after getting the appointments as teachers and he will not be eligible for any appointment
in Public Service. If any Certificate or detail required according to the Gazette notification is revealed to be incorrect or
fraudulent the registration of such candidate shall be cancelled.
11.0 The decision of the College of Education Board shall prevail as the final decision relating to any problems arising from the
information indicated above in the Gazette Notification.
12.0 In case of an in consistency in the contents in the medium of the three versions in the Gazette Notification Final decision is
considered according to Sinhala version.
A
RIYARATHNE  HEWAGE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
“Isurupaya”,
Battaramulla,
05th May, 2006.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
581
Instructions to prepare the application
Read the Gazette notification very carefully. Apply only for three courses to which you are eligible in one Application. Submit
only one application form which two of its photocopies enclosed in one envelope. Prepare the application according to specimen given
below on a white sheet of paper of A4 (21cm x 29.7cm) size. Prepare Sections 01 - 10.3 to appear on first page. In places where information
has to be given in  a cage, mark “X” in the relevant cage.
Please note that the candidates are called for the interview based on the computerized list prepared by the Department of
Examinations according to the information given in 1.0 - 10.3. Make sure, the name of the course applied for, its number and the index number
of the G. C. E. (A/L) are mentioned correclty. The application will be rejected if the numbers are not clear or incorrect.
The information given in paragraph 13.0 for Physcial Education, para 14.0 for Buddhism, para 15.0 for Catholicism/Christianity,
para 16.0 for Hinduism/Islam, para 17.0 for Technology Studies, para 18.0 Western Music should be considered carefully in filling the
application. The information specified will not be changed under any circumstances.
Refer to section 5.0 to find out the numbers assigned to Courses and numbers assigned to National Collegs of Education.
Numbers assigned to Districts are as follows :
01. Colombo
02. Gampaha
03. Kalutara
04. Matale
05. Kandy
06. Nuwara Eliya
07. Galle
08. Matara
09. Hambantota
10. Jaffna
11. Kilinochchi
12. Mannar
13. Mulativu
14. V avuniya
15. Trincomalee
16. Batticaloa
17. Ampara
18. Puttalam
19. Kurunegala
20. Anuradhapura
21. Polonnaruwa
22. Badulla
23. Monaragala
24. Kegalle
25. Ratnapura
Medium : Sinhala = S, Tamil = T, English = E

<!-- page 22 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
582
Specimen Application Form
Office use only .
Admission to National Colleges of Education – 2007
(A candidate should submit only one application in one envelope. Applications which are not according to the specimen form will be
rejected. Details up to para 10 in the application should be included in the first page. Computerized list of names for the interview will be
prepared by using details in 1.0 - 10.3 paras.)
1.0 Preference Course Course Name College College Name                    Medium
No. No. S T E
1.
2.
3.
2.0 2.1 Name with initials (in English) Rev./Mr./Miss :————.
eg. (In Block Letters Mr. PERERA R. C.)
2.2 Full Name in Sinhala/Tamil :————.
3.0 Permanent residential Address :
3.1 In English :————.
3.2 In Sinhala/ Tamil :————.
3.3 Postal Code No. :————.
4.0 Administrative District of permanent residence, District No. :————.
5.0 District according to para 6.2.4, if relevant para 6.2 of Gazette notification and District No. :————.
6.0
6.1 Date of Birth (in figures) :
Year : Month : Date :
6.2 Age on 01.01.2006 :
Years : Months : Days :
6.3 National Identity Card No. :
7.0 Whether Male/Female :
0. Male 1. Female
8.0 Ethnicity :
Sinhala Sri Lankan Tamil Indian Tamil Muslim Others
123 45
9.0 Results of G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in the year 2005 :
9.1 Year :
9.2 Index No. :
9.3 “Z”  Score/Aggregate Marks :
9.4 Details of Results :
Subject Grade
1. …………… …………
2. …………… …………
3. …………… …………
4. …………… …………

<!-- page 23 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
583
10.0
10.1 Grade for English Language/English Literature at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination of applicants in English and English Medium
Course :
 Year : Index No. :
10.2 An applicant for Sri Pada National College  of Education should indicate whether your are a Estate Worker’s  child  by
marking X in the relevant cage :
1. Yes 2. No
10.3 Only for the candidates of Physical Education Sinhala/Tamil/English medium Applicant should look into para 13.0 total
marks (4.4.3 and 4.4.4)
11.0 If you have sat for G. C. E. (A/L) Examination before 2005 give full particulars of each attempt even if you have sat only for a
single subject :
11.1 Sitting 1 2
11.2 Y ear ………… …………
11.3 Index No. ………… …………
11.4 Examination Centre No. ………… …………
11.5 Average marks/Z - Score ………… …………
11.6 Details of Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
………… ………… ………… …………
………… ………… ………… …………
………… ………… ………… …………
………… ………… ………… …………
12.0 Particulars of G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
12.1 Sitting 1 2 3
12.2 Y ear ………… ………… …………
12.3 Index No. ………… ………… …………
12.4 Examination Centre  No. ………… ………… …………
12.5 Details of Results :
Subject Grade Subjects Grade Subject Grade
………… ………… ………… ………… ………… …………
………… ………… ………… ………… ………… …………
………… ………… ………… ………… ………… …………
………… ………… ………… ………… ………… …………
………… ………… ………… ………… ………… …………
………… ………… ………… ………… ………… …………
………… ………… ………… ………… ………… …………
………… ………… ………… ………… ………… …………
13.0 Particulars of Sports competency according to the clause 4.4.3 in para 4.4.4 of the Gazette notification (only those who apply for
Physical Education Course should complete). It is necessary to give your attention to all the clauses in 4.4.3 when you complete
this part. Particulars are sufficient to forward only highest 3 sports/competency.
If you have passed Health and Physical Education in G. C. E. (O/L) examination, state the relevant mark according to the grade as
in 4.4.4 must be mentioned below.
The total number of marks of your competency on sports should be included in 10.3 in the first page of this application.
Certificate/Sports Competency :
S. Year Ministry/Institution/ Represented for competitionsEvents/Sports Place Relevant
No. Clubs issued International/National/ obtained marks for 4.4.3
Provincial/District/Zonal
1.
2.
3.
if you sat for G. C. E. (O/L) Health and Physical Education Grade Marks
Total marks :

<!-- page 24 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
584
14.0 Results (if any) of Pracheena Preliminary, Bauddha Dharmacharya and Pirivena Final Examinations according to 4.7 of the Gazette
notification :
Examination Pracheena Bauddha Pirivena Final Dhamma
Preliminary Dharmacharya School Final
14.1 Y ear
14.2 Index No. :
14.3 Examination Centre :
14.4 Subjects and Grades : 1. 1. 1. 1.
2. 2. 2. 2.
3. 3. 3. 3.
4. 4. 4. 4.
5. 5. 5.
6. 6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
15.0 The applicants of Catholicism/Christianity should fill the relevant part according to para 4.10 of the Gazette Notification :
Name of the course/certificate Duration
From To Grade
15.1 Theology (BTH)
15.2 Teaching certificate in Catholicism conducted by
National Cathecatical Centre
15.3 Diploma certificate in Catholicism conducted by
Deva Dharma Nikethanaya
15.4 Certificate in Catholicism conducted by Catholic
Bishop’s Diosician Level
15.5 Diploma certificate conducted by Lanka Theological
College at Pilimathalawa
15.6 National certificate for religious knowledge
(Dharmacharya) conducted by National Christian Council
16.0 The applicants of Hinduism (4.8)/Islam (4.9) should fill the necessary particulars according to section 4.8 and 4.9 of the Gazette
notification :
Name of the Course Duration Valid Date of the Certificate
17.0 The applicants who have successfully completed a Technology Studies in a recognized government institute and hope to follow
the Technical Skills Course para 4.14 should fill the following table :
Name of the Number and Institution Duration Whether
Technical Course Date of Successfully
Registration in completed the
government course
………… ………… ………… ………… …………
………… ………… ………… ………… …………
………… ………… ………… ………… …………
………… ………… ………… ………… …………
………… ………… ………… ………… …………
………… ………… ………… ………… …………
………… ………… ………… ………… …………

<!-- page 25 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2006
585
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
18.0 Candidates for the Western Music according in term of para 4.18.1, 4.18.2 in the Gazette notification should include relevant
particulars :
Course :————.
Competency relating to Western Music :————.
S. Year Institute issuing Certificates Competency/Class passed
No.
1.
2.
3.
19.0 Declaration of the Applicants :
(i) I have forwarded only one application with Two certified photostat copies. I am aware that all my applications will be
rejected, if I send more than one application with certified Two photostat copies.
(ii) I certify that the particulars given by me are true and correct. I am aware that if any particulars given by me in this
application are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified if detected before selection or to be discontinued
if detected after selection.
(iii) I declare that I have not applied for University admission and that I am not registered for/following a course in a
University/University Institute/Affiliated University College/any other Higher Education Institution.
————,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :————.
20.0 Declaration by the Head of School/Pirivena in respect of School/Pirivena applicants :
I certify that this applicant sat the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination/and the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination/and Preliminary Pirivena Final
Examination as a student of this School/Pirivena and that the particulars given above by the applicant are correct according to my
knowledge and that the Aggregate marks/Z Score ………… (write in words) obtained by the applicant at the G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination in the year ……… is according to the official results sheet issued by the Commissioner-General of Examinations.
————,
Signature of the Principal/Head of the Pirivena.
Name of Principal of School/Head of Pirivena :————.
Name and Address of School/Pirivena :————.
Date :————.
21.0 Declaration in respect of private applicants :
I certify that the Aggregate marks/Z Score obtained by me at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in the year …… is ……… (write in
words) according to the official results sheet issued by the Commissioner-General of Examinations.
————,
Signature of Candidates.
Date :————.
Signed before me.
————,
Signature of Justice of the Peace,
Official Frank and Name.
Date :————.
05-356