

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –07.10.2016
1441
wxl 1"988 - 2016 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 07 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'10'07
No. 1,988 -  FRIDAY , OCTOBER 07,  2016
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices for
publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. All
Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in respect
of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time both from
the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to
actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to noti fication will not be
entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 28th October, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 14th October, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter shall  be
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
GANGANI LIYANAGE,
Government Printer (Acting).
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
15th September,  2016.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... —
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 1442
By-Laws ... —
Posts - V acant ...     —
P
AGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1441
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note.— Value Added Tax (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 24, 2016.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 07.10.2016
1442
Provincial Councils Notifications
North Western Provincial Road Development Statute No. 01 of 2016 of the North
Western Provincial Council
THE above mentioned Statute passed by the Provincial Council of the North Western Province on 03rd
May 2016 and assented by the Governor of North Western Province on 29th August, 2016 is hereby
published for the information of the public.
PADMINI  K ARIY AW ASAM,
Council Secretary,
Provincial Council,
North Western Province.
Council Office,
North Western Provincial Council,
Kurunegala.
02nd September, 2016.
NORTH WESTERN PROVINCIAL ROAD DEVELOPMENT STATUTE NO. 01 OF 2016
OF THE NORTH WESTERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
MINISTRY OF ROAD, TRANSPORT, CO-OPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT AND TRADE HOUSING AND  C ONSTRUCTION ,
INDUSTRIAL  AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT - N.W.P
A Statute to Provide for the Planning, Construction, Development, Rehabilitation, Maintenance and
Demarcation of the Roads, Bridges and Ferries within the North Western Province, Except the National
Highways and the Bridges and the Ferries situated in the National Highways and to provide for Matters
connected therewith or incidental thereto, and to provide for the Repeal of the North Western Provincial
Council Regional Road Development Authority Statute No. 01 of 2000.
NOW THEREFORE be it applied to the amending Acts of National Thoroughfares Ordinance, No: 10 of
1861 and Road Development Authority (Special Provisions) Act No. 05 of 1988 and Road Development
Authority Act No. 73 of 1981 as amended by Road Development Authority (Amendment) Act No. 37 of
2009 to be inconsistent with this Statute.a
WHEREAS, it is hereby enacted by the North Western Provincial Council, as per the provisions contained
in Section 6 of the List I in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution, in terms of the powers assigned to
the Provincial Council by the Article 154G(1) of the 13
thAmendment to the Constitution of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
1. This Statute may be cited as the North Western Province Provincial Council Road Development
Statute No: 01 of 2016 and this Statute shall come into operation on such date where the approval
of the Governor of the North Western Province shall be obtained.
2. The objectives of this Statute are as follows:
(a) to design and maintain updated the road network of the North Western Province for the
efficient transport operations through effective management of limited resources, advanced
technology and technical skills;
(b)  to establish a modernized provincial road network linked with the Integrated Highway system
of Sri Lanka, the provincial roads within the province and the other rural roads;
(c) to provide necessary consultation services on development and maintenance of roads to
local government institutions and other institutions within the Province on payment of
consultative fees and receipt of financial provisions;
Long Title
Short Title &
Date
of Operation.
Objectives
of the
Statute.
 NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –07.10.2016
1443
(d) to establish North Western Provincial Department of Road Development.
(e) to establish North Western Provincial Road Development Advisory Board.
(f) to establish  North Western Provincial Road Compensation Committee.
PART I
ESTABLISHMENT, CONSTITUTION, POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE NORTH WESTERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL
DEPARTMENT OF ROAD DEVELOPMENT
3. A department which may be recognized as “North Western Provincial Department of Road
Development” shall be established to implement the objects and provisions in this Statute. This
Department shall be established under the Ministry in – charge of the North Western provincial
roads, subject to the General and Principle Guidelines of the Minister and the Secretary thereof.
4. The Department shall by its name be a body corporate and shall have perpetual succession and a
common seal and may sue and be sued in that name and shall have the power to execute all matters
pertaining to North Western Provincial Council roads and a legal entity which entertains the power
to defend itself in any other litigation.
5. The Department shall consist of a Provincial Director, Deputy Directors, Executive Engineers,
Head Quarters Engineers and other officials and employees.
6. The Governor of the North Western Province shall in Consultation with the Minister in Charge
appoint a Class one Officer of the Sri Lanka Engineers’ Service as the “North Western Provincial
Director of Road Development” to exercise of the powers vested in the North Western Provincial
Department of Road Development.
7.      The Deputy Directors and all Engineers referred to in Section 5 above shall be officers of the Sri
Lanka Engineers’ Service.
8.      All officers appointed for the purpose of this Statute shall be deemed to be public servants. No
action or prosecution shall be instituted or maintained against any officer who is acting on the
direction of the Provincial Director for any act or omission which is done in his/her official
capacity in this connection.
9. The functions of the North Western Provincial Department of Road   Development are as follows:
(1) to plan, construct, develop, supervise construction and development of the roads belonging
to the North Western Provincial Council classified as class “C” and “D” and the bridges,
ferries and designs thereon, mentioned in Part III of this Statute and provide consultative
services in this regard;
(2) to formulate and implement plans for the rehabilitation, improvement, renovation and
maintenance of provincial roads and supervise the maintenance and provide consultative
services in this regard;
(3) to demarcate and secure the boundaries of the roads and road  reservations of the provincial
road network;
(4) to institute legal actions against those who damage the provincial road network or roads or
the road reservations, as laid down in this Statute;
Establishment
of the
Department.
Department
to be
a legal entity.
Constitution
of the
Department.
Appointment of
the Director.
Deputy
Directors and
Engineers.
Officers
deemed
to be public
servants.
Functions
of the
Department.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 07.10.2016
1444
(5)  to design and implement plans within the provisions made available by either the Provincial
Council or any other institution for the renovation of damages caused to the provincial road
network due to natural disasters such as floods or for any construction or development
activity;
(6) to develop on annual basis and maintain updated the data base of the scope of the Department;
(7) to grant permission subject to conditions on the approval of the Advisory Council to any
institution or organization or a group which intend to rehabilitate or improve or thereafter
maintain any provincial council road or roads through provisions outside the provincial council
or under any other special project to do so.
10. (1) A road within the province may be declared to be under the purview of this Statute, in consultation
with the Advisory Board established under Section 12 on an Order published in Part IV (a)
(Provincial Councils) of the Government Gazette by the Minister.
Provided that, the roads indicated in Schedule I which have been declared to belong to the
provincial council, shall be considered as the provincial roads by its meaning of this Section,
with effect from the date of its operation and thereafter.
(2) The Minister may take over the respective road or roads of which the minimum width of the
surface is 3.7 meters and the complete width of the road is not less than 6.7 meters with the
minimum space of 1.5 meters each required for the road shoulder and the drains on both sides
and the bridges, culverts and other designs to the Provincial Council, on the concurrence of the
institute to which the said road belongs to, if the Advisory Board  referred to in Part II of this
Statute is satisfied that
(a) a road or more roads pass through at least two Divisional Secretary’s Divisions and connect
two or more  main junctions and connect to a national highway;
(b) the road connects two Provincial roads on which the volume of vehicular traffic is between
hundred to two hundred and fifty vehicles per day;
(c) the road has strategic bridges crossing points across major rivers providing connection
to other national or provincial highways;
(d) the road provides access to a place of provincial importance or to a special scheme of
the province.
(3) The Provincial Department of Road Development has the exclusive power of functioning lawfully
with respect to the roads declared within the purview of the above subsections (1) and (2).
11. (1) Subject to the general administration of the Secretary, the Provincial Director shall have the
power to carry out the orders or directions made in relation to matters pertaining to or incidental
to this Statute.
(2) Subject to the general direction and control of the Director, Deputy Directors, Head Quarters
Engineers and Executive Engineers shall be responsible for the implementation and
administration of the provisions of this Statute. The powers of the Executive Engineer shall be
limited to the relevant Executive Engineering Division and the boundaries of authority of the
Executive Engineering Division shall be declared from time to time by the Provincial Director.
(3) It shall be lawful for the Provincial Director to delegate any functions assigned to him by this
Statute to a Deputy Director, Head Quarters Engineer, Executive Engineer or any other officer
or a person, an institute or an organization which is perused to accomplish the functions indicated
in this Statute.
Powers of the
Minister.
Powers of the
Director.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –07.10.2016
1445
PART II
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE  PROVINCIAL ROAD NETWORK DEVELOPMENT ADVISORY BOARD
AND ITS SCOPE OF WORK
12. There shall be established a “Provincial Road Network Development Advisory Board” (hereinafter
referred to as the “Advisory Board”) to take policy decisions relating to the roads within the North
Western Province, to formulate the criterion on roads suitable to the province and to provide
instructions and guidance required to the North Western Provincial Department of Road
Development.
13.(1) The Advisory Board shall comprise of the following :
(a) North Western Provincial Minister in-Charge of the subject of Roads;
(b) Leader of the Opposition of the North Western Provincial Council and two provincial council
members nominated by the Provincial Ministerial Advisory Committee in-charge of the
subject of Roads;
(c) Chief Secretary of the North Western Province or an agent nominated by him;
(d) The District Secretaries of Kurunegala and Puttalam or each of an agent nominated by them;
(e) Secretary to the North Western Provincial Ministry in-charge of the subject of Roads;
(f) Deputy Chief Secretary of the North Western Province who is assigned with the financial
affairs or an agent nominated by him;
(g) Deputy Chief Secretary of the North Western Province who is assigned with the engineering
affairs or an agent nominated by him;
(h)  Deputy Chief Secretary of the North Western Province who is assigned with the planning
affairs or an agent nominated by him;
(i) Provincial Director of the North Western Provincial Department of Road Development;
(j) North Western Provincial Director of the Road Development Authority or an agent nominated
by him;
(k) Deputy Inspectors General of Kurunegala and Puttalam or each of an agent nominated by
them;
(l) North Western Provincial Commissioner;
(m) Any other official or person recommended to the Chairman of the Advisory Board to be
deemed necessary by the Provincial Director in the deliberations of the Board.
(2) The members indicated in the Sub sections (a) and (b) to (l) of the above Sub section (1) shall be
appointed as ex-officio members and the members laid out under the Sub section (m) may be
appointed by the Minister in-Charge of the subject.
Establishment of
the  Provincial
Road Network
Development
Advisory Board.
Composition of
the Advisory
Board and
appointment of
the members

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 07.10.2016
1446
(3) North Western Provincial Minister in-charge of the subject of Roads shall be the Chairman of
the Advisory Board and the Provincial Director of the North Western Provincial Department of
Road Development shall be the Secretary of the Advisory Board.
(4) The Chairman of the Advisory Board shall preside and in the absence of the Chairman at any
meeting of the Board, any member out of the members indicated in the above sub section (1)
(b) on majority of votes, shall preside at such meeting.
14. Functions of the Advisory Board -
(a) To take policy decisions on development and renovation of roads within the North Western
Province referred to the Board and on issues which arise periodically;
(b) To determine the criterion appropriate to the province for the special projects operated with
the objective of providing facilities to the road users;
(c)   To take policy decisions pertaining to road development research and promotion of road
development technology;
(d) To determine the assignment of roads within the province in the State or in the Road
Development Authority in the implementation of the National Policy on the integrated Highway
Network in Sri Lanka;
(e)    To determine the acquisition by the Provincial Department of any road or a road (s) improved
under a special project within the Province maintained by a Local Authority under the provisions
of the Statute for maintenance and development;
15. The tenure of the members appointed by the Minister shall be two (02) years.
16. The membership shall be declared as void in case of completion of the tenure of the members so
appointed by the Minister, resignation, removal by the Minister on his own consent, absence in two
(02) consecutive meetings thereof or demise or insanity of a member and the Minister shall be
liable to fill in the said vacancy.
17. The Advisory Board shall convene its meeting at least once per year. Additional meetings, if required,
may be convened on the instructions of the Chairman.
18. The quorum of the Advisory Board shall be one third out of the members. The vacancies of
membership does not make any interruptions to holding meetings or taking decisions therein.
19.  A participation allowance, approved by the Governor, may be paid to the Board members and the
Secretary on the recommendation of the Chief Secretary.
PART III
PROVINCIAL ROADS
20. (1) The North Western Provincial Department of Road Development shall be vested with the roads
declared by the Minister under Section 10 of this Statute and the roads within the North Western
Province depicted as ‘C’ and ‘D’ in the Schedule I which were deemed as provincial roads up to
the date on which this Statute comes into effect.
Functions
of the
Advisory Board.
Tenure of the
members.
Membership
declared as void
Meetings of the
Advisory Board.
Quorum.
Meeting
Allowances
Provincial
Roads.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –07.10.2016
1447
(2) Roads specifically categorized as:
(a)     Grade ‘C’ include all roads which start from a national highway and end from a national
highway or a provincial highway; and
(b)     Grade ‘D’ include all roads which start from a highway and end from a road which is not either
a national highway or a provincial highway or a place and which start from a provincial highway
and do not end from a national highway.
(3) The roads indicated in the Schedule I referred to in Schedule 1 are presently considered as
Northwestern Provincial roads and the Minister shall acquire or vest a new road to the Provincial
Council or assign any road to other institution by a Notification published in Section IV
(Provincial Councils) of the Government Gazette with the approval of the Provincial Council.
21. (1) The Minister shall specify building or reservation limits  along a Provincial Road or any part
thereon as a matter in the Notification under Section 20 (3) of the Statute or by way of regulations
published in Section IV (Provincial Councils) of the Government Gazette.
(2) In the event no building limits along the provincial roads are specified under Sub section (1)
above, the building limits should include -
(a) ten meters from the centre of the section where vehicles move of Grade "C" road;
(b) ten meters from the centre of the section where vehicles move of Grade "D" road;
(c) the reservations already belonging to the Provincial Department of Roads, in addition.
(3) In case the said reservation and building limits at places such as town centers or junctions
within a provincial road may be revised as found necessary, the Minister shall publish such
limits in the Government Gazette from time to time.
PART IV
ACQUISITION OF LANDS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF ROADS
22.   (1) The Minister may on the recommendation of the Provincial Director authorize -
(a)  the construction of a new Provincial Road; or
(b)  the widening or improving of an existing road along with an acquisition of a land; or
(c)  the deviation to any road.
(2) The Minister shall where he authorizes the construction or widening or improving or deviation
of a road, authorize the Provincial Director to prepare a survey plan depicting the land area
required for the construction of such roads specifying the length and bredth of such roads
including its reservations and its building limits.
(3) The Minister shall by Order published in the Gazette, declare the land area or any interest
therein depicted in the survey plan referred to at (2) above to be a building limit or a road
reservation as the case may be.
Building limits
and road
reservation
limits.
Construction of
new roads
widening and
deviation of
roads.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 07.10.2016
1448
23. (1) Upon publication of the relevant Order in the Gazette the provisions under sub section 22 (3) of
this Statue pertaining to the prohibition of construction of buildings, doing any other thing or
reconstruction shall apply to the land area specified in the said Order.
(2) Upon the declaration of a road reservation or building limits under sub section 22 (3) of this
Statue, no development work shall be executed or cause to be executed by any Government
Agency or Provincial Council Agency or Local Authority Institution or any other institution or
person within the area so declared as a reservation, except with the prior approval of the
Provincial Department of Roads.
24. Where any land or any interest in the land is declared as a road  reservation as the case may be -
(a) such land or interest therein shall for the purpose of the Land Acquisition Act (Chapter 460)
be deemed to be required for the public purpose; and
(b) that land or interest therein may be acquired under the Land Acquisition Act (Chapter 460)
for the Provincial Department of  Road Development. The provisions and criterion of the
Land Acquisition Act shall be adhered to herein.
25. (1) Where the Minister certifies that any land or interest in the land in any road reservation, vested
in a Local Authority within the province is required for the purpose of this Statute, the Minister
in consultation with the relevant Local Authority in the relevant area may, by order published in
the Gazette, vest such land or interest in such land in the Provincial Department of Road
Development on the concurrence of the Minister in-charge of the subject of Local Government
of the Provincial Council.
(2) An order made under subsection (1) above shall confer on the Provincial Department of Road
Development absolute title to any land or interest in the land and to any buildings and other
structures as are specified in such Order with effect from the date specified therein, free of all
encumbrances. Compensation shall be payable by the Department in respect of such land or
interest in such land or buildings or other structures thereon.
26. (1) Where any State land or part thereof is required for any of the purposes specified under Section
22 of this Statute, such purpose shall be deemed to be a purpose for which a special grant or
lease to be made under Section 6 of the Crown Lands Ordinance (Chapter 454).
(2) All assets including all roads and any right of way over such roads in the possession of, or
which are being used by the Department on the date immediately preceding the appointed date
of this Statute and which are specified in an Order made by the Minister out of the Orders
published in the Gazette, shall be transferred to and shall vest in the Department with effect
from the appointed date.
27. The Department may with the approval of the Minister, purchase any land or any interest therein
specified in the survey plan.
28. The Department may with the approval of the Minister purchase any land required for the purpose
of giving effect to the provisions of this Statue and to re-settle the persons displaced or affected
due to the implementation of any provisions of this Statue.
29. (1)  Purchase price of a land or an interest thereon and award of compensation for acquisition shall
be determined by a Provincial Committee for road compensation comprising -
(a)  Chief Secretary of the Province who shall be the Chairman of the Compensation Committee;
Prohibition of
Development
Work within a
Road
Reservation or a
building limit.
Application of
Land Acquisition
Act.
Acquisition of
Land vested in a
Local Authority.
State Lands-
Special Grant
under Crown
Land
Ordinance.
Acquisition of
lands.
Acquisition of
lands for
resettlement.
The Provincial
Committee for
road
compensation.

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –07.10.2016
1449
(b) Secretary, Provincial Ministry-in-charge of the subject of Roads;
(c)   Deputy Chief Secretary-in-charge of financial affairs of the Provincial Council;
(d) Provincial Director of the Department of Road Development who shall be the Secretary to
the Compensation Committee ;
(e)   Provincial Lands Commissioner;
(f)   A special member appointed by the Chief Secretary on the recommendation of the Director of
Provincial Roads for the instructions required for the Committee.
(2) Quorum of the Committee shall be three (03) members.
(3) An Assessment Report from the Provincial Department of  Valuation within the province should
be obtained at the respective purchase or award of compensation.
(4) Determination on the payment of compensation in respect of the loss or damages in the
implementation of the provisions of this Statute shall be a function of this Committee.
30.  (1)  The Department may for the purpose of maintenance of a Road or of Public interest, alienate any
land or any interest therein held by the Department for a period not exceeding 90 days, subject
to such Terms and Conditions as may be determined with the approval of the Provincial Director.
(2) The Provincial Director may extend the said period if further time is required for the purpose of
public interest.
PART V
EXECUTION OF WORKS AND CONTROL
31. The direction and control of all work to be undertaken under this Statute shall be vested in the
Provincial Director of the Provincial Department of Road Development. The Director may delegate
such power to the other officers as the case may be.
32. (1) The Executive Engineer, on the approval of the Director of the  Provincial Department of Road
Development, may order —
(a)  the temporary closure of a provincial road; or
(b)  substitution of an alternate route or alternate section of a road in lieu of an existing section
of a provincial road.
(2) The Executive Engineer shall inform the relevant institutions in this  regard.
(3) When a closure of a road is permanent, the approval of the Advisory Board shall be obtained and
such closure shall be published in the  Gazette in addition to the said public notice.
(4) In the execution of any Order under this Section, if it becomes necessary to acquire any land for
such purpose, such land shall be deemed to be required for a public purpose and the provisions
of this Statue shall apply to and in relation to such acquisition.
Power of
Department to
alienate land
temporarily.
Direction and
Control of works
to be vested in
the Provincial
Director.
Executive
Engineer  may
Order temporary
closure of road

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 07.10.2016
1450
33. (1) No person or Government Department or Institution or Provincial Council Department or
Institution, Local Authority or any other Institution shall use the road or road shoulders or the
reservation of a road for the purpose of carrying on any electricity, telecommunication, water,
gas or any other service, without the prior written approval of the Provincial Director, Deputy
Director or Executive Engineer as the case may be.
(2) A rental may be charged from any person or institution seeking for the approval of the Provincial
Director for using a road reservation in respect of any service referred to in the sub section (1)
above. The rental charged shall base on the Estimate prepared by the Executive Engineer.
(3) The Provincial Director, Deputy Director or Executive Engineer as the case may be, may on
behalf of the Department enter into Agreements, subject to the provisions of any special enactment
in that behalf, with any person or Institution or any other Institution of any road or road reservation
to be used the purpose of carrying on the services or the other services referred to in sub section
33 (1) above.
(4) In the event of widening or improvement or deviation of a road, the Provincial Director or Deputy
Director or Executive Engineer, as the case may be, may by notice order any person to remove
any physical structure or pipe line identified as an obstruction, erected or laid by such person at
the own cost of that person with the time period specified in the notice.
(5) In case of any objections or where the Executive Engineer is unable to find the person responsible
for causing such obstruction referred to in the sub section (4) above or where the Executive
Engineer is unable remove such obstruction or in the absence of the person who caused such
obstruction, the Executive Engineer may make an application in that behalf to the Magistrate
Court having Jurisdiction for the removal of such obstruction.
(6) The Magistrate may, after considering the facts of the said application, direct the fiscal to remove
such obstruction forthwith.
34. (1)   No person shall for the purpose of any public service, or private enterprise make use of a road or
execute any work thereon or setup or maintain any plant or erection thereupon, drive or maintain
thereon except under or in accordance with the Terms or Conditions of an Agreement referred
to in sub section 33 (3).
(2) Provided however that before any excavation, digging or cutting of any road is allowed to
commence in pursuing of any such Agreement, the cost of reservation or repair of such road
after such excavation, digging or cutting as estimated by the Executive Engineer and an additional
refundable deposit as prescribed by the Provincial Director shall be paid to the Department.
Such money shall be utilized by the respective Executive Engineer for the restoration of the
road.
(3) Provided further that if there is any additional cost incurred by the Department outside of any
amount estimated, such amount shall be deducted from the additional refundable profit paid to
the Department.
(4) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this section shall be guilty
of an offense and shall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable to a cost
estimated to be charged by the Executive Engineer for redress of damages and to a fine not
exceeding One Hundred thousand Rupees or imprisonment of not exceeding one year or either
of the sentence.
No use of a road
for a service
without
authority.
No service to be
carried out on a
road without the
permission of the
Department.

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –07.10.2016
1451
35. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any agreement or anything to the contrary in any other
written law referred to in sub section 33 (3) of this Statute, it shall be lawful for the Executive
Engineer to issue notice to any person who has caused an obstruction to any road, or caused
obstruction to the widening or improvement or deviation of a road, to remove such obstruction
to the satisfaction of the Executive Engineer, within such period of time as may be specified in
that notice.
(2) Where such person fails or neglects under sub section (1) above, to remove or abate such
obstruction or to remove such physical structure or pipeline, within such period of time, it shall
be lawful for the Executive Engineer or any person authorized by him to remove or abate such
obstruction or to remove or shift such physical structure or pipeline and recover the costs incurred
in that connection.
(3) Where such person fails or neglects under sub section (1) above, to remove or abate such
obstruction or to remove such physical structure or pipeline, shall be guilty of an offense and
shall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand Rupees or imprisonment of not exceeding six months or either of the sentence and the
cost for removal of such obstruction.
(4) No compensation shall be payable to such person for any breach of such agreement resulting
from such removal or abatement or shifting, as the case may be.
36. (1) Any officer or servant authorized by the Provincial Director may at all reasonable time of the
day and upon notifying the occupier thereof, of their intention, enter upon any land adjacent to
any existing or proposed road or upon any land to be declared in future as new road reservation
with all necessary vehicles, equipment, tools and other requisites and perform all acts and things
as may necessary for the purpose of -
(a) surveying, measuring, tracing, working, opening, altering, turning, repairing, clearing,
improving or fencing thereupon;
(b) constructing, excavating, repairing any bridge, causeway, earth retaining structure, culvert,
drain, fence or ditch thereupon; and
(c) erecting of temporary quarters or repairing any building for the use of any such officer
and his workmen.
(2) Any officer or servant authorized by the Provincial Director may at all reasonable times of the
day and upon notifying the occupier thereof of their intention,  enter upon any land adjacent to
any existing or proposed road, to search for, dig, cut, take water, timber, brushwood, stone,
gravel, sand or any other material from any land adjacent or near to any existing or proposed road
for the purposes referred to in (a) to (b) in Sub section (1) above.
37. (1) In the event of the necessary arising to effect emergency repairs to a road, it shall be lawful for
any officer or servant authorized by the Provincial Director or Executive Engineer to carry away
from any land in the vicinity of any such road, any material, which is required for such purpose.
(2) An officer or servant authorized by the Provincial Director or Executive Engineer or any person
assigned to carryout any activities under the provisions of Sub section (1) above, shall not be
deemed to be an unlawful trespasser.
(3) An officer or servant authorized by the Provincial Director or Executive Engineer or any person
assigned to carryout any activities under the provisions of Sub section (1) above, shall obtain any
material from any land if such materials can be conveniently obtained from any adjacent land, on
the concurrence of the owner.
Executive
Engineer may
remove
obstructions.
Certain person
to be
empowered to
survey measure
& etc. on a
road.
Right of entry to
lands in the
vicinity of a road
and acquisition
or removal of
any object to be
legal.

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 07.10.2016
1452
(4) The Department shall pay to the owner of the land from which any material has been removed a
reasonable compensation for the material so removed and for any damage caused in obtaining
and transporting the same.
(5) An officer or servant authorized by the Provincial Director or Executive Engineer or any person
assigned to carryout any activities under the provisions of Sub-section (1) above, shall take all
safety measures for fencing, or barricading of pits and quarries from where any such materials
had been removed.
38. (1) It shall be lawful for any officer or servant or any other person authorized by the Provincial
Director or the Executive Engineer or any person assigned, to make or erect temporary buildings
on any land adjacent thereto for the accommodation of such officers workmen machinery and
equipment, in carrying out any work specified in Section 37 of this Statute.
(2) It shall be lawful for any officer or servant or any other person authorized by the Provincial
Director or the Executive Engineer or any person assigned, to make or erect temporary buildings
on any land adjacent thereto for the accommodation of such officers workmen machinery and
equipment, in carrying out any work specified in Sub section (1) above, if there is suitable
waste land or State land or a land belonging to the Provincial Council or to a Local Authority
within close proximity available for the purpose of erecting a building.
(3) The Department shall pay a reasonable compensation for the use of such land and for any damages
done thereto, to the owner of such land.
39.  (1) New road or widening of the road or during the progress of work connected with the maintenance,
repair or construction of a road, bridge, culvert or earth retaining structure or cleaning any
earth slip, it shall be lawful for any officer or servant authorized by the Provincial Director or
Executive Engineer or any person assigned to dispose any stone, rubble or waste material by
dumping the same on any land adjacent thereto.
(2)  All necessary steps shall be taken to avoid unnecessary hardship to the owner or occupants of
such land in carrying out any action under the provisions of Subsection (1) above.
40.   (1) It shall be lawful for any officer or servant authorized by the Provincial Director or Executive
Engineer or any person assigned to make a temporary road for the diversion of traffic through
an adjacent land at any time by any person during closure of bridge, causeway, culvert or earth
retaining structure for repairs, reconstruction or closure of a road or rehabilitation.
(2) All necessary steps shall be taken to avoid unnecessary hardship to the owner or occupants of
such land in carrying out any action under the provisions of Subsection (1) above and the
temporary road shall be removed and restored.
(3) Provided that such diversion shall not require the demolition of any building nor encroach on
any enclosure garden or yard.
41.   It shall be lawful for any officer or servant authorized by the Provincial Director or the Executive
Engineer or an authorized official or any person assigned to cut and remove all trees, bushes, shrubs,
branches, leaves or roots that caused damages to a road and obstruction to the passage of traffic
street lighting visibility road signs, traffic light signals and road furniture, and for that purpose to
enter upon any land or premises with the necessary workmen tools and equipment for the cutting,
lopping of such trees.
Erection of
temporary
buildings on
lands for
construction of a
road.
Rubble and
waste to be
disposed on
adjacent land.
Construction of
temporary road
Cutting, lopping
and etc., of trees
to facilitate
construction of a
road.

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –07.10.2016
1453
42.    It shall be lawful for any officer or servant or any other person authorized by the Provincial Director
or the Executive Engineer to put up or make fences, barricades, ditches, pits, drains or bank alongside
any road.
43. An officer or servant authorized by the Provincial Director or the Executive Engineer shall have
power to make scour cleanse or keep open all ditches, drains, culverts and bridges, opening, water
course. No owner or occupier of any adjacent lands shall do any act or thing that would interfere
with or cause damage to the aforesaid acts.
44. (1)    Any person who sustains any loss or damage as a result of the exercise of carrying out any act, in
the exercise of any power conferred by this Statute, shall be entitled to receive compensation
for the same.
(2) A person shall make an application to the Provincial Director or to the Executive Engineer
within the period of 03 months from the date of alleged damage had been caused. Such requests
shall be made to the Provincial Road Compensation Committee. No application made after this
period shall be entertained for this purpose.
PART VI
PROTECTION OF ROADS
45. (1)  The owner or occupier of a land which abuts or adjoins a Provincial Road shall enjoy the  right of
access or egress from the road without causing any blockage, impediment or damage to the
retaining structure or drain or road reservation or to the road.
(2) Provided however there shall not be entitled to any right which in any way affect the road.
46. (1) No person shall commence any building or erect any wall, fence or any other structure alongside
a road or renovating any structure, wall or fence or place any temporary fence or enclosure
within the road limits referred to in section 21 of this Statute, without the prior approval of the
Provincial Director or the Executive Engineer.
(2) Where any person has acted without the prior approval specified in subsection (1) above, it
shall be lawful for the Executive Engineer with the sanction to cause any such building to be
demolished or any such wall, fence or structure to be dismantled and removed and to recover
the cost of such removal from such person.
(3) Provided that any such demolishing and dismantling and removal shall be carried out only upon
giving the owner or occupier adequate notice by the Executive Engineer of such impending
demolition, dismantling and removal as the case may be.
(4)  Any person who neglects to make the payment indicated in sub section (2) above, shall be
guilty of an offense and shall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable to
a fine not exceeding fifty thousand Rupees or imprisonment of not exceeding six months or
either of the sentence and the reimbursement of the cost borne by the Executive Engineer for
the purpose referred to in subsection (2) above.
47. (1)    It shall be lawful for the Executive Engineer to permit any person on payment of a fee to
temporary use any part of a road to erect a temporary fence or enclosure in order to carryout
demolition repair or construction work to his house or building including the right to erect
decoration of a temporary character subject to the following conditions:
Erection of
fences alongside
a road.
Drains, etc. to
be kept open.
Compensation to
be paid for
damage to
property.
The right of
owners or
occupiers of land
adjacent to a
road to access
the road.
No building or
structure to
commence on
land within road
limits without
permission
Obtaining
permission for
erection of
temporary
enclosures.

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 07.10.2016
1454
(a) that the person to whom permission is granted shall at night-time keep a light of sufficient
intensity upon the premises for so long as such temporary enclosure or structure is in
existence; and
(b) the sufficient room on the road shall be made available for the movement of traffic and
pedestrian without hindrance.
(2)    Any public officer connected with the distribution of any service to the public may, notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 34 or Subsection (1) of Section 35, at an instance where insufficient time
delays the urgent prior approval and such delay causes an adverse impact on the public welfare,
make temporary use of any part of a road.
(3)    Provided any act under Subsection (2) above shall be notified to the Executive Engineer or to the
Provincial Director forthwith and the institution providing such service shall pay to the Provincial
Department of Road Development the amount estimated by the Executive Engineer to restore the
damage caused to the road or road reservation or ditch or any part of the road in providing such
service.
(4) Notwithstanding anything specified in any written law, no permit or license shall be issued for any
construction unless the prior approval specified in this Section has been obtained.
48. (1)   No person shall re-erect or make any addition to any building, gateway, or any other structure or
construct a monument, statue or any such thing or construct a basement or other underground
structure or dig a well, pond, shaft or lay pipe lines within the building limit referred to under
Section 21 of this Statute.
(2) The construction of boundary fence, wall beyond the building limit shall not impede any
construction.
(3) The Provincial Director may grant permission under special circumstances, to erect a construction
of religious importance within a road reservation, having regard to the width of the road, the
visibility available for traffic, space available and the proper upkeep of the road that the
enforcement of said construction, subject to the conditions that the area of road specified in an
approved plan shall not be exceeded and subject to other suitable conditions
49. The Minister may, by Order published in the Part IV (Provincial Councils) in the Gazette, specify
the amendment or widening of the building limit alongside a road or a part of thereof, on the
recommendation of the Provincial Director.
50. (1)   If any person erect any structure or make any addition to an existing structure in contravention of
the provisions of Section 48 of this Statute, the Executive Engineer shall, by written notice
require such person or institution to demolish or remove such structure or any addition thereto
on or before such date as may be specified in such notice being a date not earlier than 7 days
from the date thereof.
(2) It shall be the duty of the person or institution on whom a notice is issued under Subsection (1)
above, to comply with the requirements specified in such notice within the time specified therein
or within such extended time as may be granted by the Executive Engineer on application made
that behalf.
(3)   (a)      Where in pursuance of a notice issued under subsection (1) above, the Executive Engineer
may apply to the Magistrate for mandatory order authorizing the Executive Engineer to
cause such structure to be demolished or removed and to reimburse the cost incurred in
that regard.
No construction
on or under the
land within the
building limit.
Modification or
widening of
building limit.
Erection of
illegal structure.

<!-- page 15 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –07.10.2016
1455
(b)    The Magistrate may, if he is satisfied as to be existing of the facts, issue notice on the
person or institution, who had fail to comply with the requirements of the notice issued
by the Executive Engineer under Subsection (1) above to demolish or remove such
structure and thereafter make Order accordingly.
(c)    If the said person or institution undertakes to demolish or remove such structure, the
Magistrate may, if he thinks fit, extend the operation of the Order for a reasonable period
or for a period not exceeding 30 days.
(4)   (a) Where a Court order has been made for the demolition or removal of a structure of religious
significance or where such structure can be safely removed, then such structure shall be removed
and handed over to the organization or institution responsible for erecting such structure.
(b) Where the authorized institution or organization is unable to remove a structure of religious
significance as specified in paragraph (a) above, such structure may be removed by the Provincial
Director or Executive Engineer, in pursuance of  the Court Order, with due respect and care.
(5) Where a mandatory order has been made under Sub-section (3) above, it shall be the duty of the
Police to render all necessary assistance to the Provincial Director or Executive Engineer in
the execution of such Order.
(6) The Provincial Director or Executive Engineer shall be entitled to recover any reasonable
expenses incurred by him in demolishing or removing any structure in pursuance of an Order
made by the Court under Sub section (3) above.
51. A compensation as determined by the compensation committee referred to in Section 29 shall be
paid to the person entitled for such compensation for the whole of a legal structure or a part thereof
situated within the building limit.
52.    (1)   The Executive Engineer may, where it appears to him that -
(a)     any road  has been obstructed or encroached;
(b) the boundary line or mile post or building limit of any road has been altered without
proper authority or
(c)     any road has been barricaded without proper authority,
by any person, direct such person by notice in written to remove the said obstruction,
encroachment, barricade or alteration within the time as the Executive Engineer has specified
in the notice.
(2) Where any such obstruction, encroachment, barricade or alteration is not removed, the Executive
Engineer shall cause such obstruction, encroachment, barricade or alteration to be removed or
cleared or restored as the case may be. Any expense incurred by the Executive Engineer in
doing so shall be recovered from the offender.
(3) Any person who neglects the payment indicated in Sub section (1) above, shall be guilty of an
offense and shall be liable on conviction after a summary trial by a Magistrate, to a fine not
exceeding Fifty Thousand Rupees and or to an imprisonment of not exceeding 6 months or
either of each sentence and to pay the estimated cost by the Executive Engineer for the damage.
Compensation
for removing
constructions.
Removing road
obstructions.

<!-- page 16 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 07.10.2016
1456
(4) If it appears to the Executive Engineer that the road or building limit may not be restored in
pursuance of sub section (2) above, a request may be made to the Magistrate in the jurisdiction
of the area for an Order to remove, explain or restore such barricade,  encroachment, obstruction
or alteration through a Fiscal as the case may be.
(5) At an instance where an Order has been issued under sub section (4) above by the Magistrate to
the Fiscal, he shall pursue such an Order with immediate effect and submit to the Court on
same along with a detailed report as to the operation of such an Order.
53. Any plan or survey under the authority of the Provincial Director shall be admissible in evidence
and shall be prima facie proof of the facts stated therein.
54. It shall be the duty of the Provincial Department to permit and protect the rights of the public to
the use of any road without any hindrance or inconvenience and to close or obstruct a road
temporarily or permanently.
55. (1)    Every person who without lawful authority or excuse –
(a) Digs a drain or excavates on any part of a road which consists of a carriageway;
(b) Remove the soil or turf from any part of a road without the permission of the Executive
Engineer;
(c) Lights any fire or discharges any material on a road causing damage to the    same;
(d) Operates a vehicle in such manner that the materials projecting from the vehicle damages
the carriageway of a road;
(e) Pulls down or obliterate a traffic sign a traffic signal placed on or over a road or a kilometers
stone or a lamp post or direction post or any other similar contrivance or device so placed
on a road;
(f) Paints, or inscribes or affixes or creates any picture, letter, sign, statute, hoarding or
other mark upon the carriageway of a road, shall be guilty of an offense under this Statute
and shall be liable on conviction after a summery trial by a Magistrate in the case of a first
offense to a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees and in the case of second or subsequent
offense, to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees and in the case of continuing offense
to a fine of five thousand rupees for each day after conviction during which the offense is
continued. In failure of payment of the fine, in case of first offense, he shall be liable to
an imprisonment of not exceeding three months and in the case of second or subsequent
offense, to an imprisonment of not exceeding six months.
(2) It shall be lawful for the Executive Engineer to remove any picture, letter, sign, statue, hoarding,
notice or other mark on a road.
56. (1) The weight of the vehicle along with the entire loaded weight including the  Goods  or persons,
animals and Goods, to be moved on a road or any part thereof belonging to Classes "C" and "D",
shall not exceed 10 Metric Tons. The Minister may, by Orders published in the Gazette from
time, declare the maximum weight limits and the length, width and height of the vehicle.
(2) The Officer-in-charge of the Police Station to which the road belongs     on    which a vehicle is
moved in contravention of the weight limits or length, width and height limits of the vehicle as
Survey to be
prima facie
proof.
Protection of
right to use a
road.
Causing
damages,
painting pictures
etc along a road
an offense.
Restriction of
load on a road or
a bridge.

<!-- page 17 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –07.10.2016
1457
per the sub-section (1) above, shall be notified by the respective Executive Engineer or Provincial
Director to arrest and produce before the Magistrate's Court.
(3) A police officer may arrest without warrant any person who is committing an offense under sub
section (1) above.
(4) Any person who violates the maximum weight and volume limits under sub section (1) above,
shall be guilty of an offense and shall be liable on conviction after a summery trial by a Magistrate
and in the case of a first offense, to the estimated value prepared by the Executive Engineer to
restore damage and to fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a period
not exceeding six months and in the case of second or subsequent offense, to a fine not exceeding
one hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding one year.
57. (1)    Where the road scope, foot walk, reservation or a retaining wall of a road is damaged –
(a) by or in consequence of any excavation being carried out on the adjacent land; or
(b) by a disaster or accident caused by a motor vehicle being driven onto the  said road;
the Executive Engineer may forthwith estimate the damage and recover the expenses as are
reasonably incurred by him in doing so from the owner of the land in dispute.
(2) Any person who neglects the payment under sub section (1) above, shall be guilty of an offense
and shall be liable on conviction after a summery trial by a Magistrate, to the estimated value
prepared by the Executive Engineer to restore damage and to fine not exceeding fifty thousand
rupees or to imprisonment for a period of six months or either of each sentence.
(3) Where the foot walk of a road is obstructed by parking of a vehicle, the person responsible for
such parking shall be guilty of an offense under this Statue and shall on conviction after a summary
trial by a Magistrate, be liable in the case of a first offense to a fine not exceeding five thousand
rupees and in the case of second or subsequent offense, to a fine not exceeding ten thousand
rupees and in the case of continuing offenses to a fine of five thousand rupees for each day after
convection during which the offense is continued. In failure of payment of the fine, in case of
first offense, he shall be liable to an imprisonment of not exceeding one month and in the case
of second or subsequent offense, to an imprisonment of not exceeding three months.
58.  (1)  Every person who willfully obstructs the passage of vehicle or pedestrian along a road, incurring
a loss to the Department, shall be guilty of an offense and be liable on conviction after a summary
trial by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees and the payment of estimated
cost incurred to the Department or to imprisonment of not exceeding three months or either of
each sentence.
(2) A police officer may arrest without warrant any person who is   committing an offense under sub
section (1) above.
59.   (1) Any person or institution who put or deposit sand, stone, timber  or branches or waste within the
building limit of a road without  any legal authority or any excuse, shall be guilty of an offense.
(2) It shall be lawful for the Executive Engineer or a Police Officer to order the owner of the sand,
stone, timber or any other material which is deposited within the building limit of a road  or the
institution to remove or deposit such material in another place.
(3) Any person who fails to comply with the order issued under sub section (2) above, shall be guilty
of an offense and be liable on conviction after a summary trial by a Magistrate to a fine not
Damage and
obstruction to
road, retaining
wall of a road
and reservation
by excavation
etc.
Obstruction of
road to be an
offense.
Depositing of
sand, timber,
firewood or
branches on a
road to be an
offense.

<!-- page 18 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 07.10.2016
1458
exceeding ten thousand rupees and in the case of a second or subsequent offense to a fine not
exceeding twenty thousand rupees and in the case of continuing offenses to a fine of five thousand
rupees for each day after convection during which the offense is continued. In failure of payment
of the fine, in case of first offense, he shall be liable to an imprisonment of not exceeding one
month and in the case of second or subsequent offense, to an imprisonment of not exceeding
three months.
(4) When the owner fails to remove sand, stone, timber or any other materials in pursuance of the
directive under subsection (2) above, it shall be lawful for the Executive Engineer with the
assistance of a police officer to cause such material to be removed to a suitable location away
from the road and to charge the costs of removal to the owner.
60.(1)   Any person who, without the lawful authority or excuse, plants a tree or shrub in a made up
carriageway, shoulder or foot walk of a road shall be guilty of an offense and be liable on conviction
after a summary trial by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees and in the case
of a second or subsequent offense to a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees and in the case of
continuing offenses to a fine of five thousand rupees for each day after convection during which
the offense is continued. In failure of payment of the fine, in case of first offense, he shall be
liable to an imprisonment of not exceeding one month and in the case of second or subsequent
offense, to an imprisonment of not exceeding three months.
(2) It shall be lawful for the Executive Engineer to require the person who planted such tree or shrub
to remove it within three days or cause it to be removed.
61. (1)  The Executive Engineer may permit any person to plant and maintain trees, shrub, grass and
plants within a roundabout or traffic island or along the shoulders of a road. Such permission
shall be granted subject to the requirement that the trees, shrubs and plants shall be grown only
to such a height as is specified taking into consideration the movement of traffic and pedestrians’
safety and visibility of the road to drivers or rider.
(2) The Executive Engineer may permit any person or an institution under sub section (1) above, to
place a name board not exceeding zero point seven five (0.75) meters height from the ground.
62. Any person who keeps garbage or any such material on the part of the road where vehicles are
moved, or pedestrian's way or road shoulders or in a reservation or spills or drops water or animal
disposal or any such other material or oil or such other material from a hall, dumpster or a house
with aid, structure or a garden to the road, while transporting it in a vehicle on a road shall be guilty
of an offense under this Statute.
63. No person shall erect a gate or barrier across a road without obtaining the prior permission of the
Executive Engineer. Any person so erects a gate or barrier shall be guilty of an offense under this
Statute.
64.    A written notice may be given to the owner or occupier of a land adjoining a road, to require him to
within fourteen days, to carry out such works thereon as are necessary to prevent soil or refuse
from that land being washed or carried on to the road or into a gully hereof so as to obstruct the road
or choke the gully. Any person who fails to give effect to such a notice within the prescribed time
shall be guilty of an offense.
65.   The Executive Engineer may by notice order owner or occupier of any building, require him to
remove or alter any unauthorized porch, projecting roof, projecting window, steps wall, gate or any
such things, name board or any such things which has been erected or placed in front of a building
which causes an obstruction to the safe passage of vehicles and pedestrians along a road. Any person
who fails to give effect to such a notice within a reasonable time shall be guilty of an offense.
Restriction of
planting trees,
shrubs, in or
near a road
reservation.
Grant permission
to plant trees,
shrubs, grass
and plants.
Dropping
material on a
road to be an
offense.
Erection of
barrier etc.
across a road.
Preventing soil
being washed
onto a road.
Power to remove
obstructions
against the
vehicles and
pedestrians'
security across a
road.

<!-- page 19 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –07.10.2016
1459
66. (1)     Where an offense is committed under the provisions of Sections 62 or 63 or 65 of this Statute,
the Executive Engineer shall on being informed of such fact, give notice in writing to the person
committing such offense that he shall forthwith take measures to stop or abate the commission
of the offense.
(2) If the person on whom the notice is served under sub-section (1) fails to comply with the
requirement therein, such person shall on conviction after a summary trial by a Magistrate to a
fine not exceeding Ten thousand rupees and in the case of a second or subsequent offense to a
fine not exceeding Fifty thousand rupees and in the case of continuing offenses to a fine of five
thousand rupees for each day after conviction during which the offense is continued. In failure
of payment of the fine, in case of first offense, he shall be liable to an imprisonment of not
exceeding one month and in the case of second or subsequent offense, to an imprisonment of
not exceeding three months.
(3) Where an offense under Sections 62, 63, 64 and 65 of this Statute is continued, the Magistrate
may issue a mandatory order authorizing the Executive Engineer to demolish or remove the
structure or thing which is the subject of the offense. The Executive Engineer shall with the
assistance of the police, cause such structure or thing to be removed and recover the cost so
incurred from the offender as per the Order of the Magistrate.
67. (1)     No person shall put up any door or gate upon any premises to open outwards on to a road except
with written consent of the Executive Engineer given in exceptional circumstances, on the
concurrence of the Provincial Director of Highways.
(2) Where a door or gate is put up in contravention of Sub-section (1) above, the Executive Engineer
may by notice to the occupier, require him to alter the door or gate so as not to open outward on
to the road.
(3) Where a notice has been served on any person under Sub section (2) above,  requiring him to
comply with the notice, fails to comply with the requirement of the notice within 14 days from
the date of service of the notice, he shall be guilty of an offense. He, shall on conviction after
a summary trial by a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding ten Thousand rupees or to an
imprisonment of not exceeding three months or either of the sentence and the Magistrate may
order to alter the door or gate as at Sub-section (2) above.
68.   (1) Where a tree, shrub or hedge overhangs a road in such a manner as to obstruct or endanger  the
passage of vehicle or any user of a road or interferes with the view of drivers of vehicle or the
light from a public lamp the Executive Engineer may, by notice issued either to the owner or
occupier of the land on which the tree, shrub or hedge is located, require him within seven days
to lop or cut eat so as to remove the cause of the danger or interference as the case may be.
(2) If a person to whom a notice is served under Sub-section (1) above, fails to comply with the
requirement of the notice within the specified period the Executive Engineer may carry out the
work required to be made by the notice and recover the expenses reasonably incurred in so
doing from the person.
(3) Any owner or occupier who does not remove the obstruction properly as per the Sub-section
(1) above, shall be guilty of an offense and shall be liable on conviction after a summary trial by
a Magistrate and in the case of a first offense, to a fine not exceeding Ten thousand rupees and
in the case of second or subsequent offense, to a fine not exceeding Twenty thousand rupees, in
the case of continuing offenses to a fine of five thousand rupees for each day after convection
during which the offense is continued and the estimated value prepared by the Executive Engineer
to remove such obstruction.  In failure of payment of the fine, in case of first offense, he shall
Notice of
commission of
offense to be
given by the
Executive
Engineer.
Doors or gate
along a road not
to open
outwards.
Cutting and
felling of trees
over hanging
onto a road.

<!-- page 20 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 07.10.2016
1460
be liable to an imprisonment of not exceeding one month and in the case of second or subsequent
offense, to an imprisonment to imprisonment for a period not exceeding three months.
69.  (1)    If an animal is at any time found straying or lying on a road or within the reservation of such
road, its keeper or owner or both shall be guilty of an offense.
(2) Any animal straying or lying on a road shall be seized by a cattle seizer authorized by the Executive
Engineer and shall be tied in a premises owned or rented by such authorized cattle seizer and
approved by the Executive Engineer. Such authorized cattle seizer is on contract with the
Executive Engineer and every such animal seized by him shall be reported forthwith by the
Executive Engineer to the nearest police station and to the Magistrate having jurisdiction over
such place.
(3) All persons permitting animals to stray and thereby obstruct the road shall be guilty of an offense
and be liable on conviction after a summary trial by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding ten
thousand rupees and in the case of second or subsequent offense, to a fine not exceeding twenty
thousand rupees, in the case of continuing offenses to a fine of five thousand rupees for each
day after convection during which the offense is continued and the estimated value prepared by
the Executive Engineer for caring and feeding of such animal.  In failure of payment of the fine,
in case of first offense, he shall be liable to an imprisonment of not exceeding one month and
in the case of second or subsequent offense, to an imprisonment to imprisonment for a period
not exceeding three months.
(4) The Executive Engineer shall ensure the safe custody of the animal seized and shall ensure the
feeding of such animal.
(5) No such animal seized shall be delivered to the owner unless upon the payment of the fine
imposed by the Magistrate and the expenses borne by the Executive Engineer.
(6)  If no person claims the animal and pays the fine within seven days from the date of imposition
of such fine, it shall be lawful for the Executive Engineer, to sell the animal by public auction
and reimburse the expenses reasonably incurred by the Executive Engineer in connection with
seizing and feeding the animal being recovered. The amount of money received upon sale of
such an animal shall be credited to the Provincial Council Fund.
70.    If a person without lawful authority or excuse –
(a) Throws anything whatsoever;
(b) Lights any fire or discharges any firework;
(c) Allows any dirt, filth or offensive matter to be deposited or
flowed;
(d) Hangs or causes to be hanged any rope or equipment;
onto a road so as to injure or endanger vehicles, pedestrian, users of road, he shall be guilty of an
offense and shall be liable on conviction after a summary trial by a Magistrate in the case of first
offense to a fine not exceeding Ten Thousand Rupees and in the case of second or subsequent
offense to a fine not exceeding Twenty Thousand Rupees and in the case of continuing offense to a
fine of Five Thousand Rupees for each day after convection during which the offense if continued.
In failure of payment of the fine, in case of first offense, he shall be liable to an imprisonment of
not exceeding One month and in the case of second or subsequent offense, to an imprisonment to
imprisonment for a period not exceeding Three months.
Permitting
animals to stray
on a road to be
an offense.
Depositing or
throwing
anything,
firework onto a
road to be an
offense.

<!-- page 21 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –07.10.2016
1461
71.  (1) No person shall in connection with any building or demolishing or alteration, repair, maintenance
or cleaning of any building, erect or retaining on or over a road any scaffolding or any other
structure which obstruct the road, unless he is authorized to do so by a license issued by the
Executive Engineer and complies with the terms and conditions of the license.
(2) In the issuance of a license in respect of any purpose referred to in subsection (1) above by the
Executive Engineer, such person is liable to furnish with such particulars relating to the structure
and the Executive Engineer shall be satisfied as to no road obstruction shall be caused. The
Executive Engineer shall in issuing a license impose the conditions–
(a) that the construction area sufficiently lit during the hours of darkness;
(b) that a red coloured flag be conspicuously displayed on the part projecting onto the road;
and
(c) Pertaining to the construction and maintenance of certain traffic control equipment.
(3) Any person acting in contravention of the provisions of sub section (1) above or fails to perform
on the conditions set out in sub section (2) above with no reasonable excuse, shall be guilty of
an offense and shall be liable on conviction after a summary trial by a Magistrate to a fine not
exceeding fifty thousand rupees or imprisonment of not less than six months or either of each
sentence.  In failure of payment of the fine, in case of first offense, he shall be liable to an
imprisonment of not exceeding one month and in the case of second or subsequent offense, to
an imprisonment to imprisonment for a period not exceeding three months.
72. (1)    A Person or an institution may with the written consent of the Executive Engineer, temporarily
deposit building material or other things on a road or a road reservation or make temporary
excavation in it.
(2) The Executive Engineer may impose conditions, in issuing such license  –
(a) for preventing impediments to traffic movements caused by temporarily piling up of
building materials;
 (b) to the effect that loading and unloading shall not cause any damage to the road, road
reservation, road shoulder or to the drainage system and that the Executive Engineer should
charge such damage if caused by the person causing such damage.
(c) for preventing damage or ensuring access, to utility services, as the Executive Engineer
may think appropriate.
(3) It shall be the duty of the person who makes such a deposit or excavation, to comply with any
directions given to him in the permission by the Executive Engineer with respect to the erection
and maintenance of traffic signs in connection with such deposit or excavation.
(4) Where a person places any building materials or any other thing on, or makes an excavation in a
road, he shall not allow the obstruction or excavation to remain in the road any longer than the
period allowed by the Executive Engineer and in addition he shall:
(a) Ensure that the obstruction or excavation to be properly fenced and to be properly lit
during the hours of darkness; and
(b) If required by the Executive Engineer, remove the obstruction or fill in the excavation.
Permission to be
obtained for the
erection of
scaffolding etc.
on a road.
Depositing of
building material
etc. along a road
to be done with
permission.

<!-- page 22 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 07.10.2016
1462
(5) Any person who –
(a) Without reasonable excuse or cause, fails to comply with any conditions subject to which
a consent is given under subsection (1) above;
(b) To perform the duty imposed on him under subsection (3) above;
(c) Fails to perform Orders imposed on him under subsection (4) above;
shall be guilty of an offense and shall be liable on conviction after a summary trial by a Magistrate
to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees in respect of each day on which such contravention
or failure occurs. In failure of payment of the fine, in case of first offense, he shall be liable to
an imprisonment of not exceeding one month and in the case of second or subsequent offense,
to an imprisonment to imprisonment for a period not exceeding three months.
73. (1) A person or contractor who is responsible for executing works on a road shall –
(a) erect such barriers and traffic signs as are required by the Executive Engineer for preventing
danger to traffic for regulating traffic and warning traffic of danger until the work is
completed and shall remove them as soon as the work is completed.
(b) ensure that the work to be properly guarded and lit during the hours of darkness.
(2) If any person or contractor fails to comply with requirement of subsection (1) above, he shall be
guilty of an offense and shall on conviction after a summary trial by a Magistrate be liable to a
fine not exceeding twenty thousand rupees in respect of each day on which failure continues. In
failure of payment of the fine, in case of first offense, he shall be liable to an imprisonment of
not exceeding one month and in the case of second or subsequent offense, to an imprisonment
to imprisonment for a period not exceeding three months.
(3) Any person who without lawful authority or excuse –
(a) takes down, removes or alters any barrier traffic sign or light erected or place in pursuance
of subsection (1) above, for the purpose of warning the users of a road of any obstruction
or further purpose of protecting the users on road from danger arising out of an obstruction;
and
(b) extinguishes a light so placed, shall be guilty of an offense and shall on conviction after a
summary trial by a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand rupees or
to imprisonment of not exceeding three months or either of each sentence.
74.  (1)     Any person or a driver, who drives, tows any metallic or timber object with scratches, cracks on
the road or being dug,  or causes to be moved vehicles with cog wheels along or across any road
and which bears directly on the road shall be guilty of an offense and shall on conviction after a
summary trial by a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand rupees or to an
imprisonment of not exceeding three months or either of each sentence.
(2) It shall be lawful for the Executive Engineer to take action to restore damages in an event of
causing such damages to a road, in pursuance of sub section (1) above and to recover the estimated
value prepared from such person.
Precautions to
be taken when
carrying out
road works.
Driving or
towing a vehicle
which has a
device for
traction other
than wheels or
tyres to be an
offense.

<!-- page 23 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –07.10.2016
1463
75.   (1) No person shall place or fix any traffic sign overhead beam, pipe, cable,    wire, gantries, hoardings
or rail or other similar apparatus over, along or across a road without the permission of the
Executive Engineer.
(2) No person or institutions shall construct a vault, mine, pit or any such things under any road
without the permission of the Executive Engineer.
(3) No person or institution shall carry out any excavation exceeding three meters in depth within
a distance of twenty meters from the center of a road without the permission of the Executive
Engineer.
(4) No person shall carry out any sand mining at or near any bridge, causeway or any culvert within
a distance of five hundred meters from the extreme edge of the bridge, causeway or culvert or
at or near any road without the permission of the Executive Engineer.
(5) The Executive Engineer shall be able to obtain a Security Deposit from a person or an institution
on a damage caused or likely to cause in respect of matters in sub sections (1) or (2) above or
charge the same estimated from such a person or an institution.
(6) Any person or institution who contravenes the provisions of subsections (1), (2), (3) or (4)
shall be guilty of an offense and shall on conviction after a summary trial by a Magistrate be
liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees or to an imprisonment of not exceeding six
months or either of each sentence.
76.   (1) No person shall connect any access road to a road unless upon  the permission granted by the
Executive Engineer.
(2) The Executive Engineer shall in granting the said permission, take into consideration of  –
 (a)   any blockage to the drain of water;
 (b)   any damaged to any ditch or retaining wall or to road shoulder.
(3) The recovery of expenses incurred to repair any damages to the road in connecting an access
road to the road shall be charged to the person who caused such damage.
(4) If any person fails to comply with provisions of subsection (1) above, he shall be guilty of an
offense and shall on conviction after a summary trial by a Magistrate be liable to a fine not
exceeding twenty five thousand rupees or to an imprisonment of not exceeding three months or
either of each sentence. It shall be lawful for the Executive Engineer to take action to charge
the amount in restoring the status quo of  the said road caused by removing such connection by
such person.
77. (1) Where a person shall be convicted in the Magistrate's Court for an offense  specified in sub
sections 34 (4), 35 (3), 46 (4), 50 (6), 52 (3), 57 (2), 59 (4), 66 (2), 66 (3), 68 (3), 69 (3), 74,
75 (6) and 76 (4) of this Statute, the Executive Engineer shall take action to obtain an Order
from the Magistrate's Court within the respective jurisdiction for indemnifying the cost from
such person.
(2) It shall be the responsibility of the Executive Engineer, at the instance of litigation, submit an
estimate of calculated amount and a report containing sufficient facts assured by the Provincial
Director or any authorized officer, for the purpose of receipt of monies spent or caused to be
spent for indemnifying as indicated in sub section (1) above.
Control of
constructions
etc.
Restriction of
access to a road.
Common
provisions  for
indemnity.

<!-- page 24 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 07.10.2016
1464
(3) The accuracy or validity of such report submitted to the Magistrate's Court by the Executive
Engineer under the provisions of sub section (2) above shall not be questioned in a proceeding
before Magistrate's Court, in order to indemnify such amount to be received under this section.
(4) The Executive Engineer shall take action for all the monies paid or charged through a Court
proceeding under this section to be credited to the common deposit account of the Engineer's
office to restore such damages or reforms.
PART VII
PROVISIONS RELATING TO LANGUAGES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
78. (1) Every notice required to be served to any person or institution  under this Statute in the Sinhala,
Tamil or English languages.
(2) Every notice addressed to any person may be sent by registered post or served personally upon
such person or such notice may be left with some member of his household of it or may be
affixed to some conspicuous part of his house and a notice served in any of foregoing methods
shall be deemed to be personal service.
79. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other written law, it  shall be the duty of any individual,
authority or institution granting licenses for carrying on any business abutting any road to obtain
the consent of the Provincial Director before issuing such license.
80 It shall be the duty of all police officers, all District Secretaries and all Grama Niladhari to aid and
assist in the prevention of any offense as may be committed in contravention of the provisions of
this Statute within their respective area of authority.
81.  (1) The Minister may make Orders for the purpose of carrying out or  giving effect to any matter
which is prescribed under this Statute or in respect of which regulations are required to be made.
(2) In particular and without prejudice to generality of the powers conferred on him by subsection
(1) above, the Minister may make regulations in respect of all or any of the following matters as
the case may be namely –
(a) The levying of fees from vehicles which transport sand, stone, soil or such other mineral
so as to enable the reimbursement of the expenses incurred in repairing the damages
caused frequently to a road as a result of running such vehicles along such road taking into
consideration of the volume and the nature of the road;
(b) The form to be used in giving notice of infringement of the provisions of this Statute;
(c)  The prevention of ribbon development along the road.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be published in Part IV (a) (Provincial Councils) of
the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date of such publication or on such later date as
may be specified therein.
(4) Every regulation shall as soon as convenient after publication in the Gazette be brought before
the Provisional Council for approval and any regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed
to be rescinded as from the date of the disapproval, but without prejudice to anything previously
done there under.
Language of the
Notice.
Permission of
the Provincial
Director
essential for any
road task.
Scope of
officers in
preventing an
offense.
The Minister
may make
regulations.

<!-- page 25 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –07.10.2016
1465
(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation made by the Minister is so deemed to be
rescinded, shall be publish in Part IV (a) (Provincial Councils) of the Gazette.
82.     In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Statue the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
83.     North Western Regional Road Development Authority Statute No. 01 of 2000 of the North Western
Provincial Council shall be repealed with effect from the appointed dated of this Statute.
PART VIII
INTERPRETATIONS
84. In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires –
“Governor” means the Governor of the, North Western Province.
“Provincial Council” means Provincial Council of the, North Western Province.
“Minister” means the Minister in-charge of the subject of road in the Provincial Council.
“Secretary” means the Secretary to the Minister in-charge of the subject of road in the North
Western Provincial Council.
“Department” means the North Western Provincial Department of Road Development in the North
Western Provincial Council.
"Provincial Director" means the Director of the North Western Provincial Department of Road
Development in the North Western Provincial Council.
“Deputy Director” means the officer holding the post of Deputy Director – 1 and Deputy Director
– II of the North Western Provincial Department of Road Development in the North Western
Provincial Council.
“Head Quarter Engineer” means an Engineer serving in the Head office of the Department of Road
Development in the North Western Provincial Council.
“Executive Engineer” means the Executive Engineer serving in an Executive Engineering Division
of the North Western Provincial Department of Road Development in the North Western Provincial
Council.
“Road"”Includes –
(a) All roads and highways mentioned in the first schedule of this Statute other than those which
come under the purview of National Thoroughfares Act, No.40 of 2008 or any Local
Government Institution within the North Central Province which have been interpreted in
Part III of this Statute and the Minister may declare from time to time;
(b) All flyovers or  interchanges belonging to the Department;
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Repeal of North
Western
Provincial Road
Development
Authority Statute
No. 01 of 2000.
Interpretations.

<!-- page 26 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 07.10.2016
1466
(c)   All culverts, bridges, causeways, viaducts, interchanges, cart ways and path ways and all the
bridges, walls, tunnels and drains belonging to all such entities;
(d) All water causes where boats and barges move along as a public interest and ferries;
(e) The road reservation within the building limit along a road and all land adjoining and outside
road reservation;
(f) The lands adjoining to the road which has been reserved for the security and welfare of the
said road;
(g) All land which has been marked off and reserved for construction of any road; and
(h) All waste land which not being private property lies within a distance of 10 meters of the
centre of public carriage ways and cart ways and three meters of the centre of public path
ways.
The burden of proving that such waste land is private property lies on the person asserting the same.
“Reservation” means in relation to a road, all land adjoining and beyond the drains or the verge of a
public road which has been reserved for its safety, protection and benefit;
“Right of way” means the carriage way, shoulders, verge, drains and the reservation of a road;
“Work” means all road works and shall include –
(a)  Work associated with the erection or creation of a structure;
(b)  Creation modification or felling of a trench;
(c)  Excavation of earth.;
(d)  Development, construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of a road.
“River” means river stream or spill or canal or stream or water cause;
“Government Agency” means a Government Ministry, Department, Government Office, Corporation,
Board or Authority;
“Institution of the Provincial Council” means a Ministry, Department or an Institution or an Office
established under a Statute of the North Western Provincial Council; and
“Local Government Body” means a Municipal Council, Urban Council and Pradeshiya Shabas in the
North Western Province;
“Animal care taker” means the person in whose possession animal is or should have been.
“Person” means a person or an institution;
“Reasonable time” means the scheduled time to finish the respective work or a maximum period of
3 months.

<!-- page 27 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –07.10.2016
1467
01 Yangalmodara - Morawalapitiya Road C 10.65
02 Urulamulla - Thalawatta Road C 8.00
03 Boyawalana - Thalawatta Road D 10.52
04 Diuwrumpitiya - Maharachchimulla Road C 4.50
05 Maharachchimulla - Pelawatta Road C 6.30
06 Wadakada - Pannala Road C 4.80
07 Bujjamuwa Railway Station Road D 0.40
08 Ritigahadeniya - Kandayaya Road C 4.00
09 Maharachchimulla - Wennoruwa Road C 4.30
10 Alawwa - Kaballawita Road C 3.52
11 Agbowa - Nawathalwatta Road D 4.60
12 ´ Othara - Kiriwanpola - Thumbulla Road D 2.00
13 Dammehara - Damunupola Road D 3.20
14 Paththaduwa - Kiralabokka Road C 6.00
15 Uhumeeya - Mahapitiya Road C 5.90
16 Uhumeeya - Keenagaspitiya Road C 9.60
17 Piduruwella - Sandagala Road D 4.12
18 Weerambugedara - Ruwangirikanda Road D 3.00
19 Mahapitiya - Udugama Road D 3.60
20 Kiralabokka - Hanwella Road D 3.00
21 Madawala - Mudunna Road D 2.00
22 Hiripathwella - Warallapola Road D 1.50
23 Pahalamadawala - Sandagala Road D 1.50
24 Pothuhera - Wadakada Road C 7.92
25 Gadawela - Aragoda Road C 7.10
26 Puhuriya - Polgahawela Road C 3.50
27 Bandawa - Mawatta Road D 5.20
28 Hondella - Mahapitiya Road C 6.40
29 Udapola - Kaluhendiwela Road C 2.80
30 Panaliya - Denagamuwa Road C 2.96
31 Amunugama - Gepallawa Road C 6.58
32 Approach Road to Polgahawela Government Buildings D 0.64
33 Panaliya - Udugama Road C 2.00
34 Aragoda - Walgama Road D 0.52
35 Godawela - Weeragala Road D 2.24
36 Rathmalgoda - Kurundugolla Road D 3.20
37 Godawela - Epakanda Road D 4.00
38 Denagamuwa - Aragoda Road D 4.00
39 Hondella - Polpitiya Road C 4.40
SCHEDULE 1
Kurunegala District
Index Road Name Class T otal  Length
No. (Km)

<!-- page 28 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 07.10.2016
1468
Index Road Name Class T otal  Length
 No. (Km)
40 Pothuhera - Kuriyampola Road D 4.00
41 Metikumbura - Kolamunamulla Road C 1.60
42 Amunugama - Namuruwakanda Road D 1.16
43 Panaliya - Edelwatta Road D 2.00
44 Badagamuwa - Wellawa Road C 1 1.40
45 Rangama - Gonagama Road C 10.40
46 Boyagane - Bogamuwa - Mathawa Road C 6.80
47 Malpitiya - Aluthmalkaduwawa Road C 4.20
48 Jayanthipura - Wilbawa Road C 4.00
49 Malkaduwawa - Kawdawatta Road C 6.63
50 Yanthampalawa - Wewagedara Road C 2.70
51 Lakeround - Kudagalgamuwa Road C 8.80
52 Porapola - Thalwita Road D 2.56
53 Rangama Bamunapotha Road C 4.80
54 Approach Road to Kurunegala Governmrnt Buildings D 0.40
55 Approach Road to Governor’s Office D 0.40
56 Henamulla - Thalkota Road D 3.40
57 Wellawa - Deduruoya Road D 2.30
58 Yaggapitiya - Uyandana Road C 3.20
59 Pilikada - Handurukkanda Road C 9.78
60 Thorayaya - Galpoththawatta Road C 3.46
61 Meddegama - Mohottawa Road C 2.80
62 Mallawapitiya - Katupitiya Road C 8.40
63 Kohilagedara - Kudumbuwa Road C 4.00
64 Thalampitiya - Kohilagedara Road D 0.61
65 Ranawana - Budanapitiya Road D 4.46
66 Diyabawa - Doratiyawa Road D 5.60
67 Pilessa - Thalahengoda Road D 7.00
68 Paragahadeniya - Pussella Road C 4.40
69 Watareka - Inguruwatta Road D 4.10
70 Ilukewela - Kannadeniya Road C 4.00
71 Weuda - Malliyagoda Road C 1.90
72 Boyagoda - Malliyagoda Road C 2.88
73 Mawathagama Town Road C 0.30
74 Arampola - Thalgaspitiya Road C 1.80
75 Pileekada - Lindapitiya Road C 4.80
76 Udugama - Meethenwala Road C 4.00
77 Meegolla - Tharapotha Road C 1.60
78 Kiriwawla - Meegolla Road C 2.80
79 Kahapathwala - Iriminna Road D 8.00
80 Kawisigamuwa - Malliyagoda Road C 1 1.60
81 Lihiniwehara - Thelambugolla Road D 5.80

<!-- page 29 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –07.10.2016
1469
Index Road Name Class T otal  Length
 No. (Km)
82 Approach Road to Rideegama AGA Office D 0.45
83 Rathwita - Gopallawa Road C 3.80
84 Gonigoda - Malliyagoda Road C 7.20
85 Rambukandana - Rideegama Road C 0.80
86 Karandagolla - Gonadeniya Road C 6.00
87 Rideegama Shoppinig Complex Road C 0.40
88 Sagalena - Dombagedara Road D 3.00
89 Gonadeniya - Thalgaspitiya D 2.00
90 Hunugalkadulla - Hangarathkotuwa Road D 2.00
91 Dodamgaslanda - Katupilagolla Road C 16.80
92 Dodamgaslanda - Ragedara Road C 7.60
93 Maduragoda - Ragedara Road C 8.00
94 Dodamgaslanda - Gokarella Road C 6.58
95 Rambodagalla - Morathiha Road C 5.93
96 Delwita - Ankumbura Road D 1.62
97 Panagamuwa - Iriyagolla Road D 4.30
98 Wegama - Galwaka - Delwita Road C 10.18
99 Ikiriwatta - Morankanda Road D 3.60
100 Ginihiriya - Pallehorombuwa Road D 0.60
101 Delwita - Ovilkanda Road C 3.40
102 Panagamuwa -Mirissala Road D 3.00
103 Maduragoda - Wanduressa Road D 5.00
104 Dodamgaslanda Hospital Road D 0.15
105 Delwita - Kiribathgalla Road D 4.00
106 Metiyagane - Morawalapitiya Road C 5.83
107 Ambagammana - Halwella Road C 1 1.00
108 Uyanwatta - Kottapitiya Road C 6.00
109 Maradagolla - Masnoruwa Road D 2.00
110 Paranagama - Kudagammana Road D 6.00
111 2nd Mile Post Junction - Kottapitiya Road D 2.00
112 Kuliyapitiya - Kirindawa-Pugalla Road C 13.00
113 Vidyala Mawatha C 2.65
114 Ananda Mawatha C 0.31
115 Vijaya Mawatha C 0.30
116 Ambawa - Gaiyala Road C 3.22
117 Karagahagedara - Deegalla Road C 2.10
118 Kuliyapitiya - Haggamuwa Road C 3.00
119 Pallewela- Weerambuwa Road D 1.60
120 Labuyaya - Thummodara Road C 1.60
121 Narangalla - Wadugedara Road D 2.00
122 Kithalawa - Ihalaanoruwa Road D 1.60
123 Kithalawa - Anukkane Road C 6.64

<!-- page 30 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 07.10.2016
1470
Index Road Name Class T otal  Length
 No. (Km)
124 Kirimetiyawa - Anukkane Road D 1.70
125 Girakethikumbura - Galahitiyawa Road D 2.60
126 Kuliyapitiya - Pallapitiya Road C 1.50
127 Ambawa - Koshena Road C 7.20
128 Deegalla - Koshena Road C 9.25
129 Bujgamuwa - Elathalawa Road C 5.70
130 Approach Road to Government Buildings C 1.40
131 Kumballawa - Meenewa Road D 3.00
132 Dikwella - Inguruwatta Road D 1.85
133 Mahimpitiya - Paragodamulla Road D 2.90
134 Yakarawatta - Lepolawa Road D 2.70
135 Koongolla - Kolaniya Junction - Pallewela Road D 2.00
136 Alaluwa - Nawasigahawatta Road C 6.10
137 Kahadenigama - Koshena Road C 6.44
138 Thunthota - Pandiwela Road C 1 1.60
139 Siyambalagasruppa - Bingiriya Road C 14.40
140 Yagamwela - Athungahakotuwa Road D 6.70
141 Meegahapelassa - Udadeniya Road D 2.80
142 Sariputhra Mawatha C 0.90
143 Bibiladeniya Junction - Palugamuwa Road C 4.60
144 Welipennagahamulla - Hewana Road C 2.90
145 Muthugala - Bihalpola Road C 10.50
146 Muruthange - Diyadora Road D 1 1.10
147 Kotawilakanda - Weudagama Road D 8.20
148 Boraluwala - Weerambugedara Road C 5.70
149 Siyambalagaskotuwa - Alahitiyawa Road C 5.50
150 Polpitiya - Pothuwewa Road D 2.30
151 Mawiela - Horombawa Road C 13.10
152 Haskampola - Arakyala Road C 2.10
153 Bihalpola - Muwanghela Road C 6.30
154 Katupotha - Dalupothgama Road C 4.65
155 Barigoda - Haliyakotuwa Road C 4.50
156 Madalessa - Thoranegedara Road D 2.00
157  Barampola - Karadawa Road  D 3.30
158  Pohorawewa - Udugama Road  D 3.30
159  Hanthihawa - Udugama Road  C 3.50
160  Apaladeniya - Udagampolagedara Road  C 13.60
161  Thorakotuwa - Wetahapitiya Road  D 3.22
162  Kadawalagedara - Gomugamuwa Road  D 2.25
163  Barampola - Moragolla Road  D 3.60
164 Akarawatta - Tharana - Dalupotha Road C 12.90
165 Weerapokuna - Boraluwewa Road C 8.30

<!-- page 31 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –07.10.2016
1471
Index Road  Name Class T otal  Length
 No. (Km)
166 Gurugoda - Manelembuwa Road D 5.10
167 Bingiriya - Urapoththa Road D 3.10
168 Kaduruwewa - Rathmalwala Road D 2.50
169 Thalagaspitiya - Wellarawa Road C 5.10
170 Kansadaluwa - Karambeoya Road D 1.76
171 Hendiyapola - Weerapokuna - Ujekele Road D 12.00
172 Bowatta - Thisogama - Puwakgahakadawala Road C 10.60
173 Makandura Temple Road C 3.20
174 Wetakeyawa - Wilgedara Road C 3.10
175 Wetakeyawa - Hettirippuwa Road C 3.40
176 Singakkuliya - Maoya Road C 2.30
177 Singakkuliya - Kaliyawadana - Pannare Road C 12.40
178 Nabitiththankadawara - Thuthiripitiya Road C 5.80
179 Makandura - Udawella Road C 17.60
180 Yakwila - Eliwila Road C 7.70
181 Maholawa - Benawatta Road C 5.50
182 Udawelawatta - Galgammulla Road D 5.00
183 Dambadeniya - Labuyaya Road C 17.40
184 Maharagama - Horakele Road C 8.80
185 Paragammana - Horakele Road C 6.80
186 Yakwila - Wadumunnegedara Road C 8.10
187 Daraluwa - Waguruwela Road D 4.00
188 Daraluwa - Dikkele Road C 4.60
189 Weralugama - Kandanegedara Road C 7.10
190 Wadumunnegedara - Nawasigahawatta Road D 2.00
191 Kandagegedara - Waguruwela Road D 2.90
192 Welpalla - Hundirapola Road D 4.00
193 Eliwila - Lihiriyagama Road D 5.20
194 Govermnent buildings access Road (Pannala AGA Office to Pannala -
Kurunegala Road) C 0.50
195 Government buildings access Road (Pannala AGA Office to Pannala -
Dankotuwa Road) C 0.18
196 Elabadagama - Hunuwila Road C 4.30
197 Bopitya - Elabadagama Road C 10.40
198 Bopitiya - Mellawalana Road C 1.80
199 Maththegama - Dodampoththa Road C 3.30
200 Narangamuwa - Kelaniyamulla Road C 10.40
201 Bammanna - Haththiniya Road D 2.70
202 Nedalagamuwa - Yayamulla Road D 5.15
203 Pannala - Maoya Road C 1.10
204 Kawdumunna - Kalagedara Road D 3.20
205 Laima Junction to Kankaniyamulla Road C 9.20

<!-- page 32 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 07.10.2016
1472
Index Road  Name Class T otal  Length
 No. (Km)
206 Bandaranayake Mawatha C 0.25
207 Dangolla - Metiyagane Road C 8.50
208 Nikaweratiya - Kuruwikulama Road C 14.40
209 Kumbukwewa - Pahalabalalla Road C 14.20
210 Pahalamawathagama - Kadigawa Road D 8.20
211 Ambale - Inginimitiya Road C 18.65
212 Nebadawa - Andigama Road C 1 1.20
213 Palugashandiya - Aluthgama Road C 8.50
214 Nebadawa - Thimbiriyawa  Road C 4.00
215 Ambalayagoda Road C 0.89
216 Kadigawa - Magurankadawala Road D 10.00
217 Kandegedara - Hulugalla Road C 4.60
218 Dalukgolla - Diwulwewa Road C 4.00
219 Polpithigama - Irudeniya Road C 18.55
220 Kiralabokkagama - Kambuwatawana Road C 5.60
221 Saliyagama - Herathgama Road C 2.15
222 Thalawa - Siyabalangamuwa Road C 3.20
223 Polpithigama - Hathigamuwa Road C 5.60
224 Melsiripura - Rambe Road C 10.00
225 Egodagama - Thalakolawewa Road C 8.30
226 Karadagollagama - Kumbukkadawala Road C 6.00
227 Wadupalayagama -Meegaswewa - Miriswatta Road D 1 1.25
228 Pansiyagama - Imihaminegama Road C 6.00
229 Dangollagama - Kalugalla Road C 12.00
230 Meegalewa - Hurigaswewa Road D 1.60
231 Amunukole - Siyambalangamuwa Road C 9.08
232 Medinnoruwa - Bongamuwa Road D 6.70
233 Meegalewa - Siyambalangamuwa Road D 7.30
234 Leekolawewa South Canal Road C 3.80
235 Wetakoluwewa - Meegalewa Road C 1 1.07
236 Meegalewa Town Road D 0.80
237 Inginimitiya - Naanneriya Road C 6.90
238 Rajanganaya - Naanneriya Road D 12.60
239 Mahagalkadawala - Galewewa Road C 24.00
240 Ihalagama - Muwanpelessa - Nahettikulama Road C 2.50
241 Kathnoruwa Junction to Reswehera Road D 5.00
242 Medagama - Thammenawa Junction Road C 2.50
243 Galgamuwa Jusewas Church Road D 4.00
244 Warawewa - Sandagala Road D 10.00
245 Perakumpura - Govijana Sewa Junction Road D 2.00
246 Ihalagiribawa - Orugala Road D 3.00
247  Gribawa Junction - Thammennawa Road D 5.00

<!-- page 33 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –07.10.2016
1473
Index Road  Name Class T otal  Length
 No. (Km)
248 Ambanpola - Ehatuwewa Road C 12.80
249 Amabanpola - Palugolla Road C 14.60
250 Dethawa - Kadahathagama Road C 4.04
251 Ambakolawewa - Mediyawa Road D 3.83
252 Galtenwatta - Belumgala Road D 3.58
253 Wathuwattegama - Mudiyannagama Road C 10.20
254 Thalangedara - Wagolla Road C 13.50
255 Ehatuwewa - Andarawewa Road C 14.40
256 Balalla - Weehenagama Road C 3.20
257 Maho - Nagollagama Road C 8.80
258 Daladagama - Kooriywa Road C 0.40
259 Daladagama - Kapuwatta Road C 0.40
260 Ella - Kadambawa Road C 13.70
261 Vijayaba Vidyalaya - Weliyaya Circular Road C 1.90
262 Konwewa - Angamugama Road C 6.30
263 Nagollagama - Karambe Road D 8.80
264 Nagollagama - Ganewatta Road D 7.00
265 Yapahuwa - Galtenwewa Road C 10.40
266 Maho Hospital Junction - Hithokadawala - Mediyawa Road C 6.00
267 Maho Hospital Junction - Thisnampola - Thimbiriyagedara Road C 5.00
268 Digana - Hangilipola Road C 4.00
269 Walaswewa - Weehenegama Road D 2.40
270 Maspotha - Thisnampola Road C    4.20
271 Hanhamuna - Dampitiya Road C    8.79
272 Wedanda - Dampitiya Road D    2.80
273 Ambalawa - Sandagala Road D    2.80
274 Wilgamdematawa Road D    2.80
275 Walpola - Hanhamuna Road C    4.60
276 Pellandeniya - Dikwehera Road C    7.60
277 Yahalegedara - Wanduressagama Road C    6.70
278 Ambalawa - Kanotuwa Road D    2.30
279 Pangolla - Bathalegoda Road D    3.80
280 Ambanpola - Balawattala Road C    7.50
281 Ussawa - Diddeniya Road C    3.80
282 Maiwala - Diddeniya Road D    6.06
283 Melsiripura - Millawana Road D    6.02
284 Gokarella - Kandulawa Road C    6.00
285 Pannala - Mukalanyaya Road C    7.20
286 Bakmeegolla - Kumbalanga Road D    3.40
287 Yakalla - Mukalanyaya Road C    5.80
288 Kiribamuna - Nelawa Road D  2.30
289 Kiribamuna - Aragama Road C    6.05

<!-- page 34 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 07.10.2016
1474
Index Road  Name Class T otal  Length
 No. (Km)
290 Melsiripura - Kumbukwewa Road C   9.00
291 Kubukgate - Lenawa Road C  15.52
292 Kumbukwewa - Nikagolla Road D    3.20
293 Katupotha - Munamaldeniya Road C  15.75
294 Kolamunuoya - Halmillakotuwa Road C    5.50
295 Kotampitiya - Mawiela Road C    7.57
296 Magulagama - Mayakadawara Ro ad D    4.90
297 Hunugama - Nagulmunna Road D    1.21
298 Kanogama - Kosdeniya Road D    8.50
299 Kanogama - Kandegedara - Galahitiyawa Road D    2.00
300 Diwulwewa - Galadenigama Road D    9.10
301 Girathalana - Akurana Road D   8.38
302 Ganewatta - Nagollagama Road C  17.80
303 Nabiriththanwewa -Mukalanyaya Road C  16.60
304 Manapaya - Bannekgama Road C    7.10
305 Nelawa - Seeradunna Road D    2.80
306 Kanawa -Korakahawa Road C    4.10
307 Makulwewa - Hunupola Road C   3.30
308 Arankele - Nelawa Road D    4.61
309 Wariyapola - Amunugama Road C  13.60
310 Malwana - Ginimanna Road C    6.40
311 Awulegama - Bamunugedara Road D    4.00
312 Minuwangete - Malagane Road C    8.00
313 Padeniya - Kobeigane Road C  11.20
314 Kobeigane - Boraluwewa - Ujekele Road (Dirananda Mawatha) D  15.50
315 Kattapitiya - Madanpola Road C    2.16
316 Kattapitiya - Iswetiya Road D    5.00
317 Kobeigane - Pannawa  - Ihalalolanwewa Road D    6.00
Puttlam District
01 Nainamadama - Kolinjadiya Road C    7.30
02 Wennappuwa Edanda Road C    2.64
03 Walikkala - Thambarawila Road C    1.76
04 Waikkala - Nanjundankaraya Road C    1.76
05 Nanjundankaraya - Kulamulla Road C    1.76
06 Thummodara - Lunuwila - Bolawatta Road C  10.80
07 Dematapitiya - Sirigampola Road C    3.04
08 Haldanduwana - Dummaladeniya Road C    5.20
09 Haldanduwana Dispensary Road C    1.07
10 Dummaladeniya Depot Road C    1.07
11 Wennappuwa Helan Mawatha C    1.25

<!-- page 35 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –07.10.2016
1475
Index Road  Name Class T otal  Length
 No. (Km)
12 Father Rex Dias Mawatha C    1.10
13 Wennappuwa Thomes Fernando Road C    1.10
14 Wennappuwa Prabbroniya Road C    1.00
15 Wennappuwa Kadawatha Road C    0.95
16 Wennappuwa Meples Road C    0.97
17 Waikkala Old Road C    1.58
18 Sindathriya Sidu Kumari Vidyala Mawatha C    0.87
19 Bandirippuwa - Kirimetiyana Road C    1.60
20 Lunuwila - Bothalegama Road C    2.80
21 Nainamadama -Boralessa Road C    1.50
22 Ulhitiyawa Cemetery Road D    0.72
23 Gonawila Road D    1.76
24 Borelessa - Keeragara Road D    2.32
25 Approach Road to Lunuwila Railway Station D    0.30
26 Approach Road to Bolawatta Railway Station D    0.30
27 From Sirigampola Church via Shiner Junction St. Anne’ s Road D    1.70
28 Sirigampala - Bothalegama Road D    1.30
29 St. Anne’s Nursery Road D    1.00
30 Kirimetiyana - Hundirapola Road C    7.20
31 Kahatawila - Koswatta Road C    2.88
32 Kirimetiyana - Kahatawila Road C    4.00
33 Kirimetiyana - Wekada Road C    7.52
34 Kirimetiyana - Thulawala Road C    3.20
35 Dankotuwa - Katukenda Road C    1.20
36 Mawathagama - Lihiriyagama Road C    7.88
37 Haldanduwana - Kahatawila Road C    2.88
38 Haldanduwana - Danwala Road C    2.00
39 Kirimetiyana Pradeshiya Sabha Road C    1.20
40 Dummalakotuwa - Dankotuwa Road C    1.20
41 Atiywala - Dummalakotuwa Road C    1.90
42 Wekada - Galwaka Road C    3.60
43 Kirimetiyana - Medamukalana Road D    1.68
44 Mellawa - Welameda Road D    0.40
45 Thambarawila - Godella bakery Road D    1.12
46 Atiyawala - Mohottimulla Road D    3.20
47 Kudawila - Dikwela Road D    2.56
48 Atiyawala - Morukkuliya Road D    4.80
49 Atiyawala  Temple Road D    2.40
50 Mellawa - Pothuwatawana Road D    3.36
51 Ihalakottaramulla -Narawila Road C    4.80
52 Thabbowa - Pilakatumulla Road C    2.60

<!-- page 36 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 07.10.2016
1476
Index Road  Name Class T otal  Length
 No. (Km)
53 Mawila - Madangaha Road C    2.70
54 Nattandiya - Muttibendiwela Road C    7.20
55 Weerahena - Mawila Road C    2.00
56 Thabbowa - Koswatta - Bothalegama Road C    9.10
57 Ihalakottaramulla - Koswatta Road C    3.20
58 Ihalakottaramulla - Morakele Road (Kottaramulla Alhira Road) C    1.60
59 Thuthuripitiya - Wandurambe Road C    6.00
60 Ihalakatuneriya - Mawila Road C    5.30
61 Mudukatuwa - Mawila Road C    3.50
62 Mudukatuwa Beach Road C    1.80
63 Mudukatuwa Zoysarama Road C    1.30
64 Mudukatuwa Keenakelewatta Road C    1.90
65 Godawela Junction to Keenakelewatta Road C    2.20
66 Mudukatuwa Sribhodi Mawatha C    1.15
67 Narawila - Kuddatiyawa - Yakdessawa Road D    4.70
68 Approach Road to Nattandiya Railway Station D    0.47
69 Badurawa - Maningala Road D    4.30
70 Meegahawela Road D    2.60
71 Paluwelgala - Koswatta  Road D    2.40
72 Vajirawansa Thero Mawatha D    2.30
73 Kuddatiyawa - Maningala Road D    1.30
74 Kachchirawa - Thunsiya Watta Road D    2.60
75 Mudukatuwa Fathima Church Road D    2.10
76 Mudukatuwa Roman Park Road D    1.30
77 Marawila Church Road C    1.60
78 Mahawewa - Thoduwawa  Road C    7.10
79 Halpanwila - Kadaima Road C    2.50
80 Mahawewa - Peniheliyagama Road C    6.20
81 Walahapitiya - Halpanwila Road C    3.50
82 Walahapitiya - Wandurambe Road C   9.00
83 Fernando Road C    1.20
84 Marada St. Piyas Mawatha C    2.90
85 Mattakotuwa Sea Street D    0.60
86 Ihala Mahawewa Road D    2.80
87 Marawila 1st Cross Street D    0.37
88 Marawila - Thalwila Road D    1.69
89 Walahapitiya - Deniya Road D    2.80
90 Walahapitiya - Pilakatumulla Road D    1.20
91 Ihala Walahapitiya - Egodagoda Road D    2.90
92 Yatakalana - Wathugahamulla Road D    2.50
93 Mahawewa - Thissa Mawatha D    1.20
94 Mahawewa - Weehena Road D    1.50

<!-- page 37 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –07.10.2016
1477
95 Iranawila - Samindugama Circular Road D    3.00
96 Ranaviru Thisera Mawatha D    2.20
97 Panangoda - Sagaragama Road D    1.30
98 Yodaela - Mahagama Road C    3.40
99 Dummalasuriya - Panirendawa Road C    7.20
100 Palubingiriya - Nankadawara  Road C    3.20
101 Madampe - Mugunuwatawana - Galmuruwa Road C  10.50
102 Kokkawila - Manakkulama Road C    7.80
103 Kudirippuwa - Kachchakaduwa Road C    2.80
104 Pothuwila - Sembukattiya Road C    5.25
105 Palubingiriya - Rathmalagara Road C    2.00
106 Pambala Boundary Road (Bedum Para) C    2.50
107 Galmuruwa - Pallekale Road C    1.55
108 Madampe - Karukkuwa Road C    0.74
109 Pitawalayagama - Walahena Road C    1.78
110 Manakkulama - Sembukattiya Road C    3.20
111 Irattakulama - Gamameda Road C    0.80
112 Road from Thaniyavallaba Mawatha to Sandrick Silva Mawatha C    0.75
113 Road from Senanayake MMV to Sri Lanka Timber Mill (Circular Road) C    1.40
114 Irattakulama Church Road C    0.85
115 Thambagalla - Sembukattiya - Horakele Dewala Road C    2.45
116 Uraliya - Heenagara Road D    2.40
117 Sawarana - Ilippadeniya - Malwatta Road C    5.20
118 Koraya Road C    0.58
119 Peoples Bank Road C    0.27
120 Sinhapura Road C    0.84
121 Vivers Road C    1.15
122 Jetty Street C    0.44
123 Bridge Street C    0.55
124 Aluthwatta Road C    1.24
125 Jusewas Road C    1.20
126 Bazar Road C    0.45
127 Mugunuwatawana - Ariyagama Road C    3.20
128 Wilaththawa - Ariyagama - Daduruoya Road C  14.76
129 Maradankulama Road D    1.60
130 Wadiya Road D    0.40
131 Chilaw Sea Street D    1.37
132 Chilaw Prison Ro ad D    0.50
133 Ambakandawila - Welihena Road D    2.00
134 Approach Road to Chilaw Government Buildings D    0.80
135 Ilippadeniya - Karawita Road D    1.56
136 Karawita - Wekanda - Dematapitiya Road D    2.40
Index Road  Name Class T otal  Length
 No. (Km)

<!-- page 38 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 07.10.2016
1478
137 Wilaththawa - Mandalana Road D    2.40
138 Wattakkalliya Road D    2.00
139 Mid Road From Kurunegala - Chilaw Road 6th mile post D    3.00
140 Ariyagama - Lakshmiwatta Road D    7.00
141 Thiththakade - Thisogama - Udayandaluwa Road D    4.00
142 Baththaluoya - Wilpotha - Dewala Junction Road C  15.06
143 Arachchikattuwa - Adippala - Ihalakolaeliya Road C    8.16
144 Nalladarankattuwa - Aththangane Road C    4.80
145 Anawilundawa - Aththangane Road C  11.50
146 Anawilundawa Road D    2.00
147 Maiyawa Road D    2.00
148 Anawilundawa - Maiyawa Road D    0.60
149 Bangadeniya - Karukupane Road D    5.00
150 Adippola Welankele - Aththanganaya Road D    6.00
151 Ambakale - Anawilundawa Road D    0.48
152 Mandalana - Kumbukkadawala Road D    3.20
153 Wijayakatupotha - Wilpotha Road (Via School) D    6.00
154 Wijayakatupotha - Wilpotha Road (1st Lane) D    4.00
155 Suruwila - Muthupanthiya via Udappuwa Road D  10.00
156 Sengaloya - Adippala Road D    4.00
157 Sengaloya - Helambawatawana Road D    1.50
158 Rajakadaluwa - Paniadikulama Road D    2.80
159 Karukuliya Road D    1.60
160 Wilaththawa  - Mandalana Road D    4.50
161 Bangadeniya - Kurukkuliya Road D    3.00
162 Bandarahena - Kelagama Road D    6.00
163 Weerakumandaluwa - Gamkele Road D    3.00
164 Rajakadaluwa - Karukkuliya Road D    1.50
165  Arachchikattuwa - Thekkahena Road D    1.50
166 Kottapitiya - Kusala Road D    2.50
167 Kumarakattuwa - Eliwitiya Road D    6.00
168 Bangadeniya - Mukkandaluwa Road D    4.00
169 Wairankattuwa Road D    3.00
170 Madurankuliya - Mahakumbukkadawala - Andigama Road C  12.80
171 Madurankuliya - Kiuwla Road C  11.00
172 Wijayakatupotha - Agunawila Road C    4.00
173 Tharavilluwa Junction -Wilpotha Road C    7.00
174 Pulichchikulama - Udappuwa Road C    4.70
175 Mangalaeliya - Sinnapaduwa Road C    7.88
176 Pubudugama - Kandathoduwana Road C    7.23
177 Madurankuliya - Mukkuthoduwana Road C    7.78
178 Nawankulama - Periyakadawala Road D    3.95
Index Road  Name Class T otal  Length
 No. (Km)

<!-- page 39 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –07.10.2016
1479
179 Kottanthiew - Watawana Road D    1.80
180 Akkarawilluwa Main Road D    6.00
181 Kandalaya Junction to Periyapadu Road D    3.70
182 Mukkuthoduwawa - Kandathoduwawa Road D    5.01
183 Kurinchampitiya - Kandakuliya Road C    4.80
184 Kandakuda - Palliwasalthurei Road C    6.00
185 Norochchole - Alankuda Road C    1.80
186 Thigali - Eththale Road C    6.30
187 Palakuda - Thalawila Road C    4.00
188 Norochchole - Ilanthadiya Road C   4.60
189 Kalpiti - Anawasal Road D    1.60
190 Kalpiti - Wannimundalam Road D    1.00
191 Karamba - Puladivayal Road D    1.50
192 Pulachchena Internal Road D    1.00
193 Mampuriya Beach Road D    2.00
194 Uswewa - Thammannawitiya Road C    4.02
195 Thabbowa Outer Circular Road C    7.50
196 Aluthgama - Ihalapuliyankulama Road C   7.92
197 Nawagattegama - Aluthgama Road C  17.50
198 Mullegama Junction to Inginimitiya Road D    2.40
199 Nawagattegama -Konkadawala Road D    5.20
200 Murukkuwatawana - Neliwawa Road D    8.90
201 10 Mile Post - Muriyakulama Road D    4.50
202 7 Mile Post - Mailankulama  - Thabbowa Road C  13.30
203  Saliyahandiya - Neelabemma -        Road D 16.00
204 Karuwalagaswewa 9th post - Weerapura School Road C    5.00
205 Thabbowa Link Road D    3.30
206 Ihalapuliyankulama - Moonamalgaswewa Road D    4.93
207 Narioya - Moragahawewa Road D    7.00
208 Thabbowa Service Road D    0.46
209 Kumbukwewa - Galawewa Road D    5.26
210 Anamaduwa - Gamudawa Road C    1.60
211 Darmapala School -  Sangattikulama Road C    8.00
212 Konkadawala - Pahalagama Road C    1.90
213 Anamaduwa - Thattewa Road D    6.80
214 Kumaragama Junction to Wadigamangawa Road D    3.75
215 Kudawewa - Lakshimiyawa Road D    1.00
216 Siyambalagashena - Thattewa Road D    5.20
217 Thonigala - Uriyawa Road D    7.00
218 Approach Road to Mahauswewa D    4.80
219 Anawillu - Karathiv Road C    5.58
220 Karadipuwal - Ambalam Road D    2.25
Index Road  Name Class T otal  Length
 No. (Km)

<!-- page 40 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 07.10.2016
1480
221 Arachchiwillu Reservation Road C    1.60
222 Puttalam Government Quarters Road C    1.10
223 Puttalam outer Circular Road C    1.68
224 Puttalam Survey Office Road C    0.40
225 3rd Mile Post to Asgirigama Road C    4.00
226 Nagawilluwa - Kaladiya Road C  12.46
227 Kaladiya - Sinhapura - Attawilluwa Road C    6.00
228 Periyanagawillu - Karathiv Road D    5.95
229 Wanathawillu - Karathiv Road D    7.70
230 Ponparippu - Karuwalakuda Road D    2.60
231 Bandaranayakepura - Katupuliyankulama Road D    2.00
232 Wijayapura 11 Mile Post Road D    2.00
233 Saliyapura - Malwila Road D    2.00
234 Eluwankulama - Aruwallaru Road D    2.00
235 Karathiv - Milroy Road D    2.00
236 Road from Karathiv Muslim School to Erikalamvilluwa Temple D    2.00
237 Manalkandu Reservation Road D    2.50
238 Puttalam Lagoon Road D    3.00
239 Abayarama St. Maries Spill Road D    2.30
240 Thiladiya - Pudikudiruppu Road D    4.60
241 Ibanbathutha - Kanganikulama Road D    4.50
242 Velusumana Bogas Handiya - 9 Bauma Road D    7.00
243 Andigama - Nebadewa Road C    6.40
244 Kottukachchiya - Mahakumbukkadawala Road C  12.60
245 Periyamaduwa - Madawakkulama Road C    6.50
246 Pallama - Wathupola Road D    3.20
247 Pallama - Kolaeliya Road D    3.00
248 Serukale - Weherakale Road D    4.00
249 Wendakaduwa - Ambakele Road D    2.00
250 Baranankattuwa - Mahakumbukkadawala Road D    5.00
251 Agunawila - Mahakumbukkadawala Road D  13.00
252 Mundalama Temple Road - Baranankattuwa D   3.00
10-185
Index Road  Name Class T otal  Length
 No. (Km)

<!-- page 41 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –07.10.2016
1481
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money Order,
Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of Advertisements. Post Office
- Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy" should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137  0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300  0
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The "Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka" is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to alteration in any week
where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in Schedule
of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should be
addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.)580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months so
as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 0 60 0
Part V                
... ... ... ... 123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 42 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 07.10.2016
1482
MPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will
not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if
publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2016
OCTOBER 07.10.2016 Friday — 23.09.2016 Friday 12 noon
14.10.2016 Friday –– 30.09.2016 Friday 12 noon
21.10.2016 Friday –– 07.10.2016 Friday 12 noon
28.10.2016 Friday –– 14.10.2016 Friday 12 noon
NOVEMBER 04.11.2016 Friday — 21.10.2016 Friday 12 noon
11.11.2016 Friday –– 28.10.2016 Friday 12 noon
18.11.2016 Friday –– 04.11.2016 Friday 12 noon
25.11.2016 Friday –– 11.1 1.2016 Friday 12 noon
DECEMBER 02.12.2016 Friday — 18.11.2016 Friday 12 noon
09.12.2016 Friday –– 25.11.2016 Friday 12 noon
16.12.2016 Friday –– 02.12.2016 Friday 12 noon
23.12.2016 Friday –– 09.12.2016 Friday 12 noon
30.12.2016 Friday –– 16.12.2016 Friday 12 noon
GANGANI  LIYANAGE,
Government Printer. (Acting)
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
15th September, 2016.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.