

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
SRI LANKA ASSOCIATION FOR FISHERIES AND
AQUATIC RESOURCES (INCORPORATION)
————————
[Bill No.35]
————————
Presented by  Hon.Chathura Sandeepa Senaratne, M. P. for
Gampaha District on 03rd December, 2015
(Published in the Gazette on September 21, 2015)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
to incorporate the Sri Lanka Association for Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
2-2d
2-
2—PL 009504—225 (12/2015)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Sri Lanka Association for Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources (Incorporation)
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE SRI LANKA ASSOCIATION FOR FISHERIES AND
AQUATIC RESOURCES
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “Sri
Lanka Association for Fisheries and Aquatic Resources” has
heretofore been established for the promotion of effective
interaction and co-operation among those involved in
research and development activities in fisheries and aquatic
resources in Sri Lanka and for the purpose of effectively
carrying out its objects according to the Constitution agreed
to by its members :
AND  WHEREAS the said Association has applied to be
incorporated in order to enable it more effectively to carry
out and fulfill the several objects and purposes for which it
was established, and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the application :
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Association
for Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (Incorporation)  Act,
No.    of 2015.
2. From and after the commencement of this Act such
and so many persons as now are members of Sri Lanka
Association for Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (hereinafter
referred to as “the Association”) or shall hereafter be admitted
as members of the Association hereby constituted shall (so
long as they continue to be members) be and become a body
corporate with perpetual succession under the style and name
of the “Sri Lanka Association for Fisheries and Aquatic
Resources” and by that name may sue and be sued in all
Courts, with full power and authority to have and to use a
common seal and to alter the same at their pleasure.
Incorporation
of Sri Lanka
Association
for Fisheries
and Aquatic
Resources.
Short title.
5
10
2—PL009217—300 (09/2015)
15
20
Preamble.
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Sri Lanka Association for Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
General
objects of the
Corporation.
General
powers of the
Corporation.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
continued are hereby declared to be—
(a) to promote effective interaction and co-operation
among those involved in research and development
activities in fisheries and aquatic resources in Sri
Lanka ;
(b) to liaise and co-operate with Government and non-
Governmental Organizations concerned in such
activities in Sri Lanka ;
(c) to create and propagate awareness of the importance
and the ways of sound utilization cultivation,
conservation and development of aquatic resources
in Sri Lanka ;
(d) to serve as a Forum for Scientists and other personnel
to discuss issues and policies related to development
and conservation of aquatic resources ; and
(e) to establish liaison with other Scientific
Organizations.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the powers to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion or
furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them including the power to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise monies with or without security,
to receive or collect grants and donations, to invest its funds,
and to engage, employ and dismiss personnel required for
the carrying out of the objects of the Association.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
Constitution of the Corporation, be administered by an
Executive Committee consisting of officers and such other
persons as may be provided for in the Constitution and elected
in accordance therewith.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Sri Lanka Association for Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
Articles of
the
Constitution
of the
Corporation.
Power to
acquire
property and
raise money.
30
(2) The first Executive Committee of the Association shall
be the Executive Committee of the Corporation holding
office at the time of the coming into operation of this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Association, from time to
time, at any Annual General Assembly and by the votes of
two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make Articles
of the Constitution, not inconsistent with the Provisions of
this Act, for the management of the affairs of the Association
and the accomplishment of its objects. Such Articles when
made, at a like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added
to, amended by the Association.
(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
Articles of the Constitution of the Association.
7. (1) The Corporation shall be able and capable in law
to acquire purchase, gift, devise, bequest, exchange or in any
other manner and to hold any movable or immovable property
and to dispose of any such property acquired or held by the
Association.
(2) The Corporation shall have the power to borrow or
raise money necessary for the furtherance of its objects and
to create, execute, grant or issue any mortgages, bonds or
obligations to receive such money.
(3) All property, movable and immovable, acquired or held
by the Corporation under this Act or the Articles of the
Constitution, shall be held, used and applied by the
Corporation in accordance with the Constitution for the
furtherance of its objects and subject to such Articles of the
Constitution, the Corporation shall have the power from time
to time to buy, sell, grant, convey, devise, assign, exchange
or otherwise dispose of or mortgage any such property and
invest its funds in such manner as may be necessary or
expedient for the furtherance of its objects.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Sri Lanka Association for Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources (Incorporation)
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Corporation.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Power to
charge fees
and
subscriptions.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
5
10
15
20
25
30
8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
charge—
(a) such fees as the Association may deem reasonable
for admission to any course or examination
conducted by the Association ;
(b) fees for the election of persons to any class of
membership of the Association ; and
(c) such subscriptions and fees as the Association may
deem reasonable in  respect of services provided by
the Corporation.
9. All debts and liabilities of the Association existing at
the time of coming into operation of this Act shall be paid or
discharged by the Corporation, and all, debts due to, and
subscriptions, and fees payable to the Association shall be
paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
10. The Corporation shall have the power to appoint
any Committee and to take such other steps as may be found
necessary, from time to time, for the furtherance of its objects.
11. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such
persons as the Committee shall authorize from time to time
by Standing Order, who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence, and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
12. Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or any body politic or
corporate or of any other persons, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Appointment
of
Committees.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Sri Lanka Association for Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .