

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2008
127
127
wxl 1"536 _ 2008 fmnrjdß 08 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008’02’08
No. 1,536 – FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 08, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 130
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 131
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 15th February 2008, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 1st February, 2008.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B._  (i) The catalogue of Books Printed quarterly in April -June 2003 has been published in part V of this Gazette.
(ii) Part II and Part III of the Gazette No. 1535 of 01.02.2008 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2008
128
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2008
129
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi)You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of
Examinations.Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2008
130
Posts - Vacant
JUDICIAL SERVICE COMMISSION
Applications are called for in terms of Muslim Marriage
and Divorce Act (Chapter 115) the Recruitment for the
Post of Quazis
01. Addalachchenai : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service
Commission under the Muslim Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter
115) for the Post of Quazi in the A. G. A's Division of
Addalachchenai in Ampara District.
02. Akkaraipattu : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service
Commission under the Muslim Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter
115) for the post of Quazi in the A. G. A's Division of Akkaraipattu
in Ampara District.
03. Avissawella : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service
Commission under the Muslim Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter
115) for the post of Quazi  in the Judicial Division of Avissawella.
04. Colombo (East) : Applications are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim Marriages and Divorce Act
(Chapter 115) for the post of Quazi in the Judicial Division of
Colombo for Hulftsdorp, Grandpass, Maligawatta, St. Sebastian
Road, New Bazzar, Thotalaga,  Kochchikade, Kotahena, Padukka,
Hokandara, Meegoda, Godagama, Panagoda, Malambe, Thalangama
North, Kotikawatta and Buthgamuwa areas.
05. Colombo (West): Applications are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim Marriages and Divorce Act
(Chapter 115) for the post of Quazi  in the Judicial Division of
Colombo for Dehiwala, Mt. Lavinia, Ratmalana, Nugegoda,
Pepiliyana, Maharagama, Pannipitiya, Homagama, Polgasowita,
Ingiriya, Rajagiriya, Battaramulla and Athurugiriya areas.
06. Galle : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service
Commission under the Muslim Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter
115) for the post of Quazi in the Judicial Division of Galle.
07. Gampaha : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service
Commission under the Muslim Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter
115) for the post of Quazi in the Judicial Division of Gampaha.
08. Kalutara : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service
Commission under the Muslim Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter
115) for the post of Quazi in the Judicial Division of Kalutara.
09. Maho : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service
Commission under the Muslim Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter
115) for the post of Quazi in the Judicial Division of Maho area  to
comprises Maho, Wariyapola, Nikaweratiya, Galgamuwa,
Abanpola, Jagama, Palunawala, Walpaluwa, Kanuketiya,
Abukkagama and other villages falling with in the above areas.
10. Panamapattu(Pottuvil) :- Applications are invited by the
Judicial Service Commission under the Muslim Marriages and
Divorce Act (Chapter 115) for the post of Quazi  in the Revenue
Division of Panamapattu (Pottuvil) in Ampara District.
Persons with following qualifications may apply :
Any Muslim male who is a graduate of a recognized university
or a Moulavi holding a certificate from an institution recognized by
the Ministry in charge of Muslim Religions and Cultural Affairs or
a holder of the Al-Alim Certificate issued by the Department of
Education or an Attorney-at-Law or a holder of other similar
professional qualifications or a retired public servant who has held
office in staff grade.
Persons currently holding a permanent post in the public service
shall not be eligible to apply.
Applicant should be persons of  over 40 years of age and of
good character and standing in the community and possessing a
sound knowledge of the law relating to Muslim Marriage and
Divorce.
The selected candidate will be appointed for a period, which
will be specified in the letter of appointment.
It is legal requirement that a Quazi should reside in the area for
which he is appointed.
A Quazi will be paid a monthly allowance of Rs. 6,000 and an all
inclusive allowance of Rs. 5,000 per month for the cost of support
services (clerical, assessors, typing, postal)
Applications on forms obtainable from this office, should be
sent to reach me on or before 29th February, 2008.
P. W. D. C. J
AYATHILAKE ,
Secretary,
Judicial Service Commission.
Office of the Judicial Service Commission,
P. O. Box 573,
Hulftsdorp,
Colombo 12.
25th January, 2008.
02-286
RECRUITMENT OF SUB INSPECTOR OF POLICE
FOR THE POLICE DEPARTMENT (SPECIAL TASK
FORCE)
AS per the Government Gazette Notification No. 1530 of 28th
December, 2007 in connection with the above Recruitment, the
closing date of applications has been extended by 01 month till
28th January, 2008, which was extended by 01 month is further
extended till 28th February, 2008.
Inspector-General of Police.
02-324

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2008
131
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
THE GENERAL SIR JOHN KOTELAWALA DEFENCE UNIVERSITY
Undergraduate Cadetships (Male/Female)
1. APPLICATIONS are invited for Undergraduate Cadetships (Male and Female) in the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
2. The General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University in empowered to award Degrees by the General Sir John Kotelawala
Defence Acadamy Act No. 68 of 1981 and subsequent amendments thereto, to those who have successfully completed the Academic and
Military components of studies pertaining to the Degree programmes.
3. The Degree Programmes applicable to these Cadetships will be of three years for Arts, Commerce and Management, and
Technical Science Streams and Three and a half year duration for Engineering Stream.
3.1 The allocation of cadets for three Services will be based on the aggregate marks obtained at the three interviews,
conducted for selection and the availability of vacancies in each service. Cadets will be commissioned in the regular forces
of the Sri Lanka Army, Navy or Air Force as applicable on successful completion of two years of Degree programmes.
3.2 On successful completion of the academic and military training components of three year/three and a half year Degree
programme, the Officer Cadets will be awarded Bachelor's Degree in Defence Studies in the disciplines of Engineering,
Management and Technical Sciences, Commerce or Arts as applicable.
3.3 The Degree programmes are conducted in the medium of English.
3.4 Selected candidates will have to follow one of the following Bachelor's Degree Programmes in defence studies :
(i) Bachelor of Science in Engineering in one of the following fields: (Three and a half year Duration) (Male candidates only)
(a) Civil Engineering
(b) Mechanical Engineering
(c) Electrical  & Electronic Engineering
(d) Marine Engineering
(e) Aeronautical Engineering
(ii)Bachelor of Science in Management and Technical Sciences (Three–year duration) (Male and Female).
For those who have reached the standard required to be considered for University admission, Bio-Science with Physics
or Mathematics as a subject or Physical Science at the GCE (Advanced Level).
(iii)Bachelor of Commerce (Three-year duration) (Male and Female)
For those with Commerce subjects at the GCE (Advanced Level) and reached the standard required to be considered for
University admission.
(iv)Bachelor of Arts (Three-year duration) (Male and Female)
For those who have studied Arts subjects including one of the following subjects at the GCE (Advanced Level)
Examination and reached the standard required to be considered for University admission.
Geography, Economics, History, Business Statistics, Business Studies, Political Science, English (Subject No. 73),
Mathematics (Subject No. 07)
3.5 Selected candidates are required to follow a range of common and special subjects pertaining to the respective Degree
programmes including English, Management, Law, International Studies and Military subjects.
3.6 They are also be required to undergo continuous training in physical development, Drill, Weapon Training and Leadership
etc., during the full period of the Degree Programme.
4. Eligibility requirements for undergraduate Cadetships :
The candidates should ;
For those who have followed Physical Science subjects at the GCE
(Advanced Level) Examination and reached the standard required to
be considered for University admission
 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2008
132
(a) be citizens of Sri Lanka ;
(b) be not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years of age on 04th April, 2008 ;
(c) who have been pronounced as eligible to apply for University admission by the Commissioner General of Examinations
and have fulfilled the following requirements :
(i) Those who offered three (3) subjects at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held under the new scheme should have obtained
at least "S" Grades :
(a) in all three approved subjects ;
                             and
(b) passed the Common General Paper and be eligible for University admission. (Please attached a copy of Certificate
to confirm the eligibility to apply for University admission issued by the School or Department of Examinations).
(ii)have a minimum of a Credit (C) Pass for the subject of English Language at the G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination.
(d) Satisfy the following minimum physical standards :
Male : Height - For Army : 165.1cm (5'5")
For Navy : 168.3 cm (5'6')
For Air Force : 168.3 cm (5' 6")
Weight - 50Kgs (110 lbs)
Chest - 81.25cm (32" unexpand)
Female : Height - For Army  : 153 cm (5'0")
For Air Force : 162.5cm (5'4")
Note : (if a candidate possesses outstanding achievements in sports or other relevant fields, the above physical standards may
be relaxed by the Secretary, Ministry of Defence.)
(e) conform to the required medical standards. Successful candidates are required to pass a medical test to the satisfaction
of the Secretary, Ministry of Defence ;
(f) be unmarried. (No Cadet or Officer will be permitted to marry whilst under training and until permitted to do so by
Service regulations.)
5. Conditions of Service : Selected candidates will be enlisted as Officer Cadets of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence
University. They will be subjected to laws, regulations, and orders under the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy Act No. 68
of 1981 and subsequent amendments thereto.
6. At the time of enlistment selected candidates will have to enter into a Bond and Agreement with the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka to serve for a minimum period of 10 or 12 years as applicable, after commissioning in the Service to which they are
posted.
7. Officer Cadets will be paid the pay and allowances, as applicable. The consolidated pay of an Officer Cadet is Rs.178,440
per annum. In addition, the following facilities are also available for Officer Cadets :
(i) Free board and lodging;
(ii)Free Medical facilities ;
(iii) Free uniforms ;
(iv)batmen facilities ;
(v) Sports and recreational facilities.
8. On being commissioned to the Regular Forces of the Sri Lanka Army, Navy or Air Force, they will be paid the pay and
allowances appropriate to the rank in accordance with the Service pay codes :
(a) The salary seales assigned to Officers up to the rank of Lieutenant Colonel/Commander/ Wing Commander are as follows :
2/Lt/Actg. Sub Lt/Pilot Officer - Rs. 189,240 per annum .
Lieutenant/Sub Lieutenant ./Flying Officer
Rs.275,220-30x7,470-Rs.507,420 per annum.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2008
133
Captain/Lieutenant/Flt. Lieutenant
Rs 321,660-24 x 7, 740 - Rs.507,420 per annum ;
Major/Lieutenant Commander/Sqn. Leader
Rs.352,620 - 20 x 7,740-Rs.507,420  per annum ;
Lt. Col/Commander/Wing Commander
Rs.362,100-15 x 9,480-Rs.504,300 per annum ;
(b) The Following allowances are payable monthly :
(i) qualification pay;
(ii)free feeding or ration allowance;
(iii)disturbance allowance when ordered to live in (for married officers only);
(iv)uniform up keep allowance.
(c) The following facilities are available/allowances payable :
(i) free accommodation when ordered to live in;
(ii)when living in rented quarters a rent ceiling ;
(iii)free uniforms;
(iv)batmen allowance to married officers or batmen service to unmarried officers ;
(v) One return  duty warrant a month from place of work to home station to those who are ordered to “live in”.
9.Officers of the Army/Navy/Air Force wll be governed by the following regulations in respect of their pay prospects and
conditions of Service :
(i) the Army/Navey/Air Force Pay Code ;
(ii)current regulations for Officers of the Army/Navy/Air Force published in the Sri Lanka  Government Gazette ;
(iii)current Army/Navy/Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code published in the  Sri Lanka Government Gazette.
10. During the course of training, Officer Cadets are required to undergo such training as may be prescribed by the Commandant/
Vice Chancellor, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University and or respective Service Commanders.
11. Officer Cadets under training are liable to be posted for training to any part of Sri Lanka or abroad.
12. Officer Cadets under training  will be  required to live in, in accommodation provided and follow a routine laid down by the
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University or by the respective Service Establishments.
13. Language requirements.– Selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules and  regulations already made or
that may hereafter be made for giving effect to the language policy of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
14. Proof of Identity.– Candidates will be required to produce proof as to their identity. Identity cards issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons or Post Master- General and Driving Licenses issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles will be accepted for
this purpose.
15. Applications.– Those who wish to  apply for Cadetships, can either prepare the application as in the specimen application
form appended to this notification or obtain application forms and the brochure which provides more information by sending  a self
addressed 09 x 04 envelope with stamp worth of Five Rupees (Rs. 5) to the Registrar of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence
University.
16. Duly filled applications should accompany a receipt obtained by paying One Hundred Rupees (Rs.100) to any Bank of
Ceylon Branch in the Island in favour of “Commandant/Vice Chancellor, Kotelawala Defence University” to be Credited to Current
Account Number  “681950” of Bank of  Ceylon “Moratuwa–Idama”Branch. The applications without  atleast basic qualifications, no
duly  without any information to the applicant. The application fee will not be  refunded under any  circumstances. Further a self
addressed envelop with stamp worth of Rs.5 should be sent along with the application.
17. The perfected applications should be forwarded in duplicate to the “Registrar, General Sri John Kotelawala Defence
University, Kandawala Estate, Ratmalana” under registered cover to reach him or before 04th April, 2008, The left- hand top corner of the
envelope should be marked “Application for Cadetships”. Applications received at the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Uninversity
after the closing date or do not conform  to the requirements of this notification will be  rejected.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2008
134
18.  Applications from Officers in Government Service and Corporations or Statutory Bodies should be forwarded through the
Head of the Department/Corporation/Statutory Bodies and should accompany a certificate to the effect that the Officer would be released
if selected.
19. Applications should be accompanied by copies of certificates of Regisration of Birth and educational qualifications.
20. Preliminary selection will be made from among those candidates who have achieved the required standards in accordance
with the evaluation criterion determined by the Selection Committee appointed by the Board of Management of the General Sir John
Kotelawala Defence University. Candidates so selected will be required to undergo tests as may be prescribed by the Board of  Management
of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University. The final selection will be made by the Final Selection Committee appointed by
the Board of Management of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
21. Candidates calling for interviews and tests will be informed in writing of the venues, times and the dates of such interviews.
No travelling or other expenses will be paid for this purpose to applicants.
22. Any one who desires to recommend a  candidate should do so by giving his a  testimonial. Any form of canvassing would
be a disqualification.
23. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. No correspondence or inquiries will be enteratined with regard to rejected
applications.
G
OTABAYA  RAJAPAKSA , RWP, RSP, psc,
Secretary, Ministry of Defence, Public Security, Law and Order,
and Chairman of the Board of Management,
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
For Office Use
The General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University
A PPLICATION  FOR  UNDERGRADUATE  CADETSHIPS
NID No.
01. Name (in Block Letters) :———.
(a) Full Name :———.
(b) Name with Initials : Mr/Miss :———.
02. (a) Address :———.
(b) Tele. No. :———.
03. Date of Birth :      Date   Month   Year
05. Civil Status :          Married    Single
07. Sri Lanka Citizenship : By Descent/By Registration :———.
08. Educational Qualifications :
(a) GCE (O/L) Examination :
Name of the School you studied for the GCE (O/L)
Examination :———.
Index No : ———.
Year : ———.
04. Age as at 04.04.2008  :              Years   Months   Dates
06. Sex : Male Female
(b) GCE (A/L) Examination :
Name of the School you studied for the  GCE (A./L)
Examination :———.
IndexNo : ———.
Year : ———.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2008
135
Subject Grade
1. ………………… ……………
2. ………………… ……………
3. ………………… ……………
4. General Test Marks : ……………… Z-Score :  ………
Steram :
Physical Bio Commerce Arts
Whether you have been pronounced as eligible to apply for university
admission by the Commissioner General of Examinations :
Yes N o
(Please attach a copy of the result sheet or a letter from the Principal)
09. In what games have you represented :
*SL *DL *CL *NL
(a) Athletics
(b) Badminton
(c) Basketball
(d) Cricket
(e) Hockey
(f) Rugby
(g) Soccer
(h) Swimming
(i) Table Tennis
(j) Tennis
(k) V olley Ball
(l) Wrestling
(m) Karate
(n) Judo
(o) Boxing
(p) Squash
*SL - School Level *DL - District Level * CL - Club Level *NL - National Level
10. Extra Curricular Activities :
(a) Band
(b) Cadeting
(c) Scouting
(d) Societies
(e) Prefect
(f) House Captain
(g) School Captain
(h)
(i)
12.  Any other relevant facts : …………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
(Please attach a separate sheet if necessary)
Subject Grade
1. ………………… ……………
2. ………………… ……………
3. ………………… ……………
4. ………………… ……………
5. ………………… ……………
6. ………………… ……………
7. ………………… ……………
8. ………………… ……………
9. ………………… ……………
Indicate whether you have "D/A" "B/C" or "S" Pass for English at
the (O/L) Examination :
11. Physical Requirements :
Height Weight Chest
Ft. Inches Lbs. Inches

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2008
136
13. Details of two referees :
Name Address Designation Telephone No.
(i)
…………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
…………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
…………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
(ii)
…………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
…………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
…………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
14. Please pay One Hundred Rupees (Rs.100) to any Bank of Ceylon Branch in the island in favour of “Commandant, Kotelawala
Defence University” to be credited to Current Account No. “681950” of Bank of Ceylon “Moratuwa - Idama Branch” and give following
details. (Receipt should be attached hereto).
(i) Date of Payment :
(ii)BOC Branch :
15. I declare in honour that the information given above  me are to the best of my knowledge and belief, are correct. I am aware that
if any information given in the application are found to be incorrect, prior to my selection, I am liable to be disqualified, and if it is found
after the selection I am liable to be dismissed without any compensation.
——–––––––—,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :———.
02-274
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.