

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2010
2047
2047
wxl 1"678 - 2010 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 29 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'10'29
No. 1,678 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2050
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 2056
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 04th November, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 21st
October, 2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2010
2048
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2010
2049
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2010
2050
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars, Marriages, Births and Deaths – In the Tamil Medium
AMPARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 29th November, 201 0.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla,
06th October, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary's Division Application is called applications should be sent
Ampara Navithanvely Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of The District Secretary/ The Additional
Navithanvely Division and Marriages (General) Registrar General, District Secretariat,
of Sammanthurai Division (Tamil Medium) Ampara.
10–951
–––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars, Marriages, Births and Deaths – In the Tamil Medium
BADULLA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2010
2051
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 29th November, 201 0.
E. M. GUNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla,
06th October, 2010.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary's Division Application is called applications should be sent
Badulla Haputale Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths The District Secretary/ The Additional
of Haputalegama Division and Marriages (General) Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Haputale Division (Tamil Medium) Badulla.
Badulla Badulla Post of Medical Registrar of Births and Deaths The District Secretary/ The Additional
of Badulla Town Division  (Tamil Medium) Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Badulla.
10–950
––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars, Marriages, Births and Deaths
KANDY  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2010
2052
07. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 29th November, 201 0.
E. M. GUNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla,
12th October, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary's Division Applications are called applications should be sent
Kandy Thumpane Post of Registrar of Marriage (General/Kandyan) District Secretary/ Additional
of Thumpane Division and Birth and Deaths for Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Thumpane Gan Ata Division of the Kandy District Kandy.
10–948
–––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
AMPARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Marriages Registration Divisions and should be entitled to properties
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Muslim Males only can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land District Registries.
Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 29th November, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla,
06th October, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary's Division Applications is called applications should be sent
Ampara Kalmunai Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages in The District Secretary/ The Additional
Karavahupattu (Maruthamunai - 02) Division Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Ampara.
10–949

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2010
2053
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KANDY  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Marriages Registration Divisions and should be entitled to properties
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Muslim Males only can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land District Registries.
Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 29th November, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla,
12th October, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary's Division Applications are called applications should be sent
Kandy Thumpane Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages of District Secretary/ Additional
Galagedara Madihe Area of Kandy District Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Kandy.
Kandy Thumpane Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages for District Secretary/ Additional
Thumpane of Kandy District Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Kandy.
10–947
––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars, Marriages, Births and Deaths
NUWARA - ELIY A  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2010
2054
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 26th November, 201 0.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla,
06th October, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretariat Division Applications are called applications should be sent
Nuwara Eliya Kothmale Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) (Tamil District Secretary/ Additional
medium) of Kothmale Division and Birth and Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Death of Pallepane Division Nuwara Eliya.
Nuwara Eliya Kothmale Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) (Tamil District Secretary/ Additional
medium) of Kothmale Division and Birth and Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Death of Medapane Division Nuwara Eliya.
10–975
––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  EXAMINATIONS
Application to the Post of Superintendant of Press
APPLICATIONS are invited only from male applicants processing
following qualification to fill the vacancies in the post of
Superintendent of Press in the Department of Examinations of Sri
Lanka under the provisions of Printing Service Constitution of the
Department of Examinations.
01. Eligibility :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Should be less than 18 years and not more than 45 years
to 30.09.2010 ;
(Maximum age limit does not apply to those who are
already in public service.)
(iii) Should be of excellent character and sound health.
02. Educational and other qualification :
(a) (i) A degree from a recognized university including the
subject of Chemistry or Physics and three (03) years
experience as a Superintendant or in a similar post in
a Government Institute or in an Institute attached to
the Government ; or
(ii) Having a diploma certificate obtained after successful
completion of one year full time course, from a
recognized University such as London School of
Printing and Graphic Arts or Manchester College of
technology or Harriot Watt College in Edingboro or
the Certificate of Printing Technology along with a
degree from a recognized university ; or
(b) Along with any certificate stated under (ii) paragraph,
three (03) years contineous experience as a Administrator
of Press in Department of Examinations ; or
(c) 20 years experience in printing service in the Department
of Examinations of Sri Lanka and completion of five (05)
years service period in Class II Grade II of the printing
service in the Department of Examinations.
Additional qualification.– Diploma certificate awarded by the
London City and Guilds Institute or British Federation of Manchester

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2010
2055
Printing or experience as an Executive Officer in a Private Sector
Institution.
03. Method of Recruitment and Terms of Employment :
(i) Recruitment will be made in term of the provision of
Public Administration Circular 15/90 after subjecting
the applicants those who have fulfilled above
qualification in to a written/practical test.
(ii) This post is permanent, pensionable and contribution
should be made to the Widowers/Widow's and
Orphan's Pensions Scheme.
Salary Scale. – Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - 8 x 790 -
17 x 1,050 - Rs. 53,550.
04. Method of Applications :
(i) Applications should be prepared in "A4" sized paper
using both sides as per specimen form of application
given at the end of this notice and duly completed
applications should be sent by registered post to
reach Commissioner General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations Sri Lanka, Pelawatta,
Baththaramulla on or before 12.11.2010.
(ii) Those who are already in Government service should
be sent their applications through their Head of the
Department.
(iii) On the top of the left hand corner of the envelope the
words "Application for the Post of Superintendant
of Press in Department of Examinations – Sri Lanka"
should be indicated.
(iv) Department will not be responsible for those
applications lost or delay by post.
(v) Applications received after the closing date, those
are not duly completed and those without required
qualifications will be rejected.
(vi) The Commissioner General of Examinations reserves
the right to decide on any matter that not covered by
this notification.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
P
OST OF SUPERINTENDANT OF PRESS IN DEPARTMENT OF EXAMINA TIONS
1. 1.1 Name with  initials (In capital block letters) :––––––––.
(State initial at last Eg. : PERERA  A. B.)
1.2 Name denoted by initials (In capital block letters) :––––––.
2. 2.1 Permanent address :––––––––.
2.2 Official address :––––––––.
3. 3.1 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.2 Age as at 30.09.2010 :
Years : Months : Days :
3.3 Civil status :
Married – 1 Unmarried – 2
3.4 Nationality :
Sinhalese – 1,   Tamil  – 2, Muslim – 3
Berger – 4 Other – 5
4. Educational qualifications :
4.1 G . C. E. (O/L) :–
Year :––––––––.
Index No. :––––––––.
Subject Grade
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
4.2 G . C. E. (A/L) :–
Year :––––––––.
Index No. :––––––––.
Subject Grade
01
02
03
04
4.3 Higher educational qualifications :––––––––.
5. Professional qualifications :––––––––.
6. Experience :––––––––.
7. Details of the present post :
7.1 Designation and class/grade :––––––––.
7.2 Date of appointment :––––––––.
7.3 Whether it is pensionable/non pensionable post :–––––––.
7.4 Annual consolidated salary scale paid present and the present
salary step :––––––––.
8. Declaration of Applicant :
I declare that the particulars mentioned in this application are
true and correct to the best of my knowledge. I further declare that I
have not been dismissed from government service or served with
vacation of post notice. I am aware that if any information furnished

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2010
2056
by me is found to be incorrect or false I am liable for disqualification
before selection and for termination of my appointment without any
compensation, if such incorrect or false information is detected after
appointment.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––.
(
THE CERTIFICATE TO THE HEAD OF DEPARTMENT IN
CASE OF GOVERNMENT SERVICE)
The application of Mr. .................... is forward herewith. It is
hereby informed that he serves in this department as a permanent/
temporary/casual employee and he can/cannot be released from the
service if he is selected for the post concern.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Department Head.
Stamp.
Date :––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examinations.
National Evaluation and Testing Service,
Department of Examinations Sri Lanka,
Pelawaththa,
Baththaramulla.
10–983
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Admission of Teachers in Government and Government
approved Private Schools to Universities in Sri Lanka for
the Academic Year 2010/2011
APPLICATIONS are entertained from teachers in Government and
Government approved private schools, who have passed the General
Science/Arts (with English as a subject) qualifying (External)
examination to study the following courses in universities in Sri
Lanka during the academic year 2010/2011.
(i) Bachelor of Arts Degree Programme with English as a
subject ;
(ii) Bachelor of Science Degree Programme.
02. For this purpose, the applicants should possess the
qualifications as follows :
(i) Should have passed the General Science/Arts (with English
as a subject) qualifying (External) Examination held in or
after year 2006. (A copy of the result sheet should be
attached to the application).
(ii) Should have completed five years service as a teacher on
the last date of receiving applications and should be
confirmed in the post.
(iii) Should not have been registered already to follow courses
in a Teachers' Training College, A National College of
Education, A university or in the National Institute of
Education.
(iv) Selection for admission will be based on the total number
of marks obtained in the General Arts qualifying examination
(External) or General Science qualifying examination
(External) and the marks obtained for the relevant subject.
In addition to this, the applicants qualified for General
Science degree will be subjected to an oral test conducted
by the relevant university and the applicants qualified for
Arts degree will be interviewed by the University Grants
Commission.
(v) Only teachers who are entitled to study leave should
forward their applications, as study leave has to be granted
to them if they are selected to follow the course.
03. Claims for approval of full pay study leave will be examined
at the interview.
04. The Ministry is not bound with the responsibility to provide
graduate teaching appointments after the award of the Degrees.
05. In the case of applications forwarded by teachers in
government approved private schools, the Principal/Manager of the
school should state therein whether full pay study leave for the
relevant teacher could be allowed/not allowed.
06. Applications of teachers in Government Schools should be
certified by the Principal, Zonal Director and the Provincial Director
of Education and those of teachers in government approved private
schools by the Principal/Manager of the relevant schools.
07. All applications should be prepared in accordance with the
specimen form appearing herewith and forward them in two copies
under registered post to the address given hereunder to reach before
16.11.2010. The words "Applications for Admission to Universities
in Sri Lanka 2010/2011" should be clearly written on the left hand
top corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
S
UNIL S. SIRISENA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Human Resource Development Branch,
Ministry of Education,
'Isurupaya',
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2010
2057
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO .......................... UNIVERSITY TO FOLLOW
A COURSE IN ....................... DURING THE ACADEMIC YEAR 2010/2011
01. (i) Name in full :–––––––––––.
(ii) Name with initials :–––––––––––.
02. Sex :–––––––––––.
03. Post held (Service Class/Grade) :–––––––––––.
04. Private address :–––––––––––.
05. Official address :–––––––––––.
06. Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
07. E-mail :–––––––––––.
08. Present place of work :
(i) School :–––––––––––.
(ii) Zone :–––––––––––.
(iii) District :–––––––––––.
(iv) Province :–––––––––––.
09. (i) Date of first appointment :–––––––––––.
(ii) Date of confirmation :–––––––––––.
10. Teacher Registration Number :–––––––––––.
11. (i) Date of birth :
Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Date :–––––––––.
(ii) Age on 16.11.2010 :
Years :–––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
12. Year of passing the qualifying examination and subjects :
(a copy of the result sheet should be attached)
(i) Year :–––––––––––.
(ii) Subjects : 1. ............... 2. ................ 3. ................
13. Name of the course and subjects to be followed :
(i) Name of the course :–––––––––––.
(ii) Subjects :  1. ............... 2. ................. 3. ...............
14. Name of the university expected for admission :–––––––––––.
15. Whether already registered to follow another course in a Teacher's
Training College, National College of Education, University or
National Institute of Education ? :–––––––––––.
If so details :–––––––––––.
I certify that the above details are true and correct.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
I certify that the above teacher is serving in .................. school
with effect from ................ and his/her last salary was paid from this
school. He/She can be released to follow the above course.
I recommend/do not recommend the approval of study leave required
by the applicant. (Please give reasons if study leave is not
recommended.)
–––––––––––,
Principal/Manager,
Signature and Seal.
Date :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Recommended/Not recommended.
––––––––––,
Zonal Director.
Signature and Seal.
Date :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Recommended/Not recommended.
––––––––––,
Provincial Director of Education.
Signature and Seal.
Date :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
10–1037
MINISTRY  OF  LAND  AND  LAND  DEVELOPMENT
Survey Department
APPLICATIONS are invited from the qualified citizens of Sri Lanka
for the competitive examination to be held for recruitment to the
Post of Survey Instrument Technicians in the Survey Department.
02. Job Profile.– Servicing and maintenance of accessories and
instruments related to the Survey activities.
03. 1. Question Paper of the Examination :–
(a) Paper I - Intelligence
(b) Paper II - General Knowledge (There will also be
questions on the knowledge of technology pertaining
to the post).
2. Equal marks will be given for each question paper and
the selection will be made according to the aggregate
marks obtained by the candidates at the examination.
04. Recruitment Grade .– Survey Instrument Technician Grade
III.
05. Terms of Employment. – This post is permanent and
pensionable. Should contribute to the Widow's and Orphans' Pension
Fund or to the  Widower's and Orphan's Pension Fund. Appointment
will be subjected to a probationary period of three years and the

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2010
2058
selected candidates should be prepared to serve in the Head Office
and also they are subject to the General Conditions applicable to
the appointment to the posts in the Public Service, published at the
beginning of this Gazette Notification.
06. Salary Scale :
Survey Instrument Technician Grade III :–
Rs. 14,425 - 10 x 145 - 11 x170 - 6 x 240 - 14 x 320 -
Rs. 23,665 p.m. (MT 1- 2006-A)
Survey Instrument Technician Grade II :–
Rs. 14,425 - 10 x 145 - 11 x 170 - 6 x 240- 14 x 320 -
Rs. 23,665 p.m.
(Start from Salary Step 12 (MT 1- 2006-A)
Survey Instrument Technician Grade I :–
Rs. 14,425 - 10 x 145 - 11 x 170 - 6 x 240 - 14 x 320 -
Rs. 23,665 p.m.
Start from Salary Step 23 (MT 1-2006-A)
Survey Instrument Technician Selection Grade :–
Rs. 20,030- 11 x 365 - 18 x 500- Rs. 33,045 p. m.
(MN 7-2006-A)
07. Age Limit.– Should not be less than 18 years and not more
than 45 years of age on the closing date of  application. (The
maximum age limit will not apply to the candidates who are already
in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service).
08. Educational Qualifications :
(a) For 90% of External Candidates :-
Should have passed the G. C. E. (O/L) examination in 06
Subjects in not more than two sittings (Out of which 05
Passes should be in one and the same sitting) including 03
credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil, Mathematics/Arithmetic
and science ;
and
Pass in G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in Applied Maths,
Pure Maths and Physics ;
and
Should have successfully followed one year Electronic or
Machanical Course at a Technical College recognized by
the Government.
09. Method of Recruitment.– Selection will be made from among
the successful candidates on the results of the written examination
in term of the P.A. Circular No. 15/90 and relevant Circulars.
10. It is Compulsory that all candidates should have fulfilled
their qualifications required to the post before the closing date of
applications for the examination.
11. Applications and other Details :
(a) (i) Application should be prepared by the applicant himself
on a paper size 21 x 29 cm (A4) as per the specimen
application form appearing at the end of this notification
and cages No. 01-09 should appear on the front page,
No. 10-12 appear on the second page and cages No. 13,
14 and 15 appear on the third page. The receipt obtained
after paying the examination fees should be affixed on
the specified place on the application. On the top left
hand corner of the envelop containing the application
the Post of "Survey Instrument Technician" to be clearly
mentioned and the duly completed applications shall
be sent by registered post to the Surveyor General,
Survey Department, Kirula Road, Narahenpita,
Colombo 05 to reach him on or before 29.11.2010
(Applications should not be sent to the personal name
or to any other address).
(ii) The applications which are incomplete and not having
required qualifications and also that are received after
the closing date of application will be rejected without
any notice.
(iii) The loss of applications in the post will not be
considered.
(iv) The examination fees will not be refunded under any
circumstances.
(v) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
(b) Candidate's identity should be attested by a Head of
Government School, Justice of the Peace, Commission of
Oaths, Attorney at Law, A Commissioned Officer of the
Army or Air Force, a Police Officer holding a Gazetted Post
in the Police Service, a permanent Government Officer in
the Tertiary or Senior Level in terms of the grading of
employees in the P. A. Circular No. 06/2006.
12. Candidates have to submit following documents whenever
requested :–
(i) Certificate of Birth,
(ii) Educational Certificates,
(iii) A Grama Niladhari Certificate obtained recently,
(iv) Two Character Certificates.
N. B.– Documents or their copies should not be attached to
the application.
13. Those candidates who are already in the Public Service
should send their applications through the respective Department
Heads.
14. Examination fee is Rs.200. A candidate shall pay this amount
to any District Office of Superintendent of Surveys and the receipt
should be affixed on the prescribed place on the application. Money
orders or cheques will not be accepted.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2010
2059
15. Examination Centre. – Action will be taken to hold the
examination at the Head Office or any other suitable centre and also
the Candidate will be notified of the date of the examination later.
16. Admission to the Examination .– All the Candidates who
have submitted the applications and having requisite basis
qualifications will be posted the admission card to the respective
addresses given in the application. A Candidate appearing the
examination should produce his/her admission card to the Supervisor
at  the examination centre. Similarly, a Candidate without the
admission card will not be permitted to sit the examination and at
the same time,  Candidates should sit the examination only at the
examination hall stipulated to them.
Note :- The issue of an admission card to a Candidate does
not necessarily mean that he/she has the requisite
qualifications to sit for this examination or complied with
the requisite qualifications for this post.
17. Identity of the Candidate .– Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
Supervisor. For this purpose, any of the following documents will
be accepted :–
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons,
(b) Valid Postal Identity Card Issued by the Post Master
General,
(c) Valid Passport.
18. Punishment for Furnishing False Information.– If a Candidate
is found to be unqualified, His/her candidature is liable to be cancelled
prior to the examination, while holding the examination or
subsequent to the examination or at any time thereafter. Even  after
the recruitment to the Service, if a Candidate is found to have
furnished any false information purposely or a Candidate has
deliberately concealed any important information, he/she shall be
liable to dismissal from State Service.
19. Medium of Language. – The examination will be held in
Sinhala, Tamil and English medium and the Candidate is at liberty
to sit the examination in any one of these languages. However,
Candidates will not be permitted to change the medium of language,
they have selected in the application.
20. Any matter not convered by these conditions will be
determined at the discretion of the Surveyor General.
S. M. W. F
ERNANDO,
Surveyor General.
Survey Department,
Colombo 05,
12th October, 2010.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
O
PEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF
SURVEY INSTRUMENT TECHNICIAN IN THE SURVEY DEPARTMENT
For Office use only
(Indicate the Code No. in the given cage)
01. (I) Name with initials :
(i) In Sinhala :––––––––––.
(ii) In English :––––––––––.
(II) Names denoted by initials (in legible letters) :
(i) In Sinhala :––––––––––.
(ii) In English :––––––––––.
02. (i) Permanent Address (in legible Letters) :––––––––––.
(ii) Administrative District of the Address :––––––––––.
03. Sex :  (Male - M. Female -F)
04. Medium of language you wish to sit this examination :
(Sinhala - S, Tamil - T, English - E)
05. Ethnicity :
(Sinhala - 1, Sri Lankan Tamil -2, Muslim -3,
Indian Tamil - 4, Burgher -5, Malay -6, Other -7)
06. (i) Divisional Secretariat Division :––––––––––.
(ii) Grama Niladhari Division :––––––––––.
(iii) The Date from which you are residing in the District :
––––––––––.
07. Citizenship :
(i) By descent :
(ii) By registration :
08. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
09. (i) Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––, Month :––––––––, Date :––––––––.
(ii) Age as the closing date of applications :
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications :
(i) Particulars of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
First Attempt :
1. The year and month of the Examination :–––––––––.
2. Index No. :––––––––––.
3. Subjects passed :–
Subject Grade Subject Grade

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2010
2060
(ii) Particulars of G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Second Attempt :
1. The year and month of the examination :––––––––––.
2. Index No :––––––––––.
3. Subjects passed :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
(iii) Particulars of G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
1. The year and Month of the Examination :–––––––––.
2. Index No. :––––––––––.
3. Examination Centre  :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
11. Other Qualifications :––––––––––.
12. Have you been convicted by a Court of Law for any Criminal
Offence ? :
Yes N o
If so given details :––––––––––.
13. Servey office to which the Payment Made :––––––––––.
Receipt No. :––––––––––.
Date of Payment :––––––––––.
(Receipt has to be affixed on page No. 03)
14. Certificate of the Candidate :
(a) I declare that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
(b) I am also aware that if the statement made by me herein is
found to be false, I am liable to disqualification if detected
before selection and to dismissal from service, if detected
after appointment.
(c) I agree to abide by the rules and regulations of this
examination.
(d) The cash receipt obtained after paying Rs.200 as an
examination fee has been pasted into the specified place.
–––––––––––,
Singnature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
15. Attestation of the Candidate's Signature :
I certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss/................ (Name) who is submitting
the application is personally known to me and that he/she placed
his/her signature in my presence on..........
––––––––––,
Signature of Attestor.
Date :––––––––––.
Name of Attestor :––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here.
16. Recommendation of the Head of Department :
This Officer can be/cannot be released from service, if selected
for this post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department.
Date :––––––––––.
10-917