

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
THE WORLD FELLOWSHIP OF BUDDHISTS
SRI LANKA CENTRE (INCORPORATION)
ACT, N O . 1 OF 2009
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 22nd January, 2009]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 7.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 23, 2009

<!-- page 2 -->

The World Fellowship of Buddhists Sri Lanka
Centre (Incorporation) Act No. 1 of 2009
1
2—PL 003183—3,250 (08/2008)
[Certified on 22nd January, 2009]
L.D.—O. I.N.C. 4/2007.
A N  ACT   TO  INCORPORATE  THE  WORLD  FELLOWSHIP  OF  BUDDHISTS
SRI LANKA  CENTRE .
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “World
Fellowship of Buddhists Sri Lanka Regional Centre ” has
heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of
effectually carrying out and transacting all objects and matters
connected with the said Association according to the rules
agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the World Fellowship of
Buddhists Sri Lanka Centre  (Incorporation) Act, No. 1
of 2009.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
World Fellowship of Buddhists Sri Lanka Regional Centre
(hereinafter referred to as the “Centre”) and such other
persons shall hereafter be admitted as members of the
Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of the
“World Fellowship of Buddhists Sri Lanka Centre”,
(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”) and by that name
may sue and be sued, in all courts, with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and to alter the
same at its pleasure.
Short Title
Preamble.
Incorporation of
the world
fellowship of
Buddhists
Sri Lanka
Centre.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 The World Fellowship of Buddhists Sri Lanka
Centre (Incorporation) Act No. 1 of 2009
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to represent Sri Lanka within the World Fellowship
of Buddhists;
(b) to encourage the membership to abide by Buddhist
principles;
(c) to develop unity among Buddhists within the region
and world over;
(d) to promote the Buddha Sasana among the Buddhists
in the region as well as in other parts of the world;
(e) to encourage and assist Buddhists particularly
Buddhist women to organize themselves to further
the Buddhist philosophy and Buddhist culture;
(f) to undertake research activities on Buddhism and
the publication of appropriate texts relating to
Buddhism;
(g) to provide appropriate facilities for the advancement
of religious education of Buddhist Monks;
(h) to organize and implement social, cultural,
educational and rehabilitation programmes for
persons of the Buddhist faith;
(i) to promote peace, unity and friendship among
persons of the Buddhist faith;
(j) to implement programmes of the World Fellowship
of Buddhists for the benefit of persons of the
Buddhist faith;
(k) to organize and conduct lectures, seminars,
workshops, exhibitions and other appropriate
programmes and activities for persons of the
Buddhist faith in order to promote the objects of
the Corporation;
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

The World Fellowship of Buddhists Sri Lanka
Centre (Incorporation) Act No. 1 of 2009
3
(l) to provide necessary assistance and facilities to
Buddhist visitors to Sri Lanka particularly the
representatives of the Centres of the World
Fellowship of Buddhist; and
(m ) to liaise with other institutions and organizations
having objects similar to those of the Corporaion.
4. (1) The management and administration of the affairs
of the Corporation shall subject to the provisions of this Act
be administered by an Executive Committee (hereinafter
refferd to as the “Executive Committee”) consisting of office
bearers and such number of Committee members elected in
the manner as may be provided by the rules of the Corporation
made under section 6.
(2) The first Executive Committee of the Corporation
shall consist of the members of the Executive Committee of
the Centre who hold office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act.
5. Subject to the provisions  of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessary
or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects of
the  Corporation or any one of them, including the power—
(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct and otherwise
obtain lands or buildings which may be required for
the purposes of the Corporation;
(b) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations
in cash or kind;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, maintain and close accounts
in any bank;
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 The World Fellowship of Buddhists Sri Lanka
Centre (Incorporation) Act No. 1 of 2009
(d) to invest any funds that are not immediately required
for the purposes of the Corporation, in such manner
as the Executive Committee may determine;
(e) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the Corporation;
(f) to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for the
purposes fo the Corporation; and
(g) to do all other things as are necessary or expedient
for the proper and effective carrying out of the
objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act or any other written law, for  all or any of the
following matters :—
(a) the classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and fees payable by the members;
(b) the election of office bearers of the Executive
Committee or vacation of or removal from office
and the powers, duties and functions of the office
bearers;
(c) the appointment, powers, functions and duties and
the terms and conditions of the various officers,
agents and servants of the Corporation;
(d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Executive Committee,
the Corporation or any sub-committee thereof,
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

The World Fellowship of Buddhists Sri Lanka
Centre (Incorporation) Act No. 1 of 2009
5
filling of vacancies, notices and agenda of such
meetings, the quorum and the conduct of business
thereat;
(e) the qualifications and disqualifications for members
of the Executive Committee and the Corporation;
and
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation for the accomplishment of the
objects of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times be
subject to the rules of the Corporation made under this section.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund.
(2)  All moneys received by way of gift, bequest,
donation, subscription,  contribution, fees or grant for and on
account of the Corporation shall be deposited in one or more
banks approved by the Executive Committee to the credit of
the Corporation.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of money
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under the Act.
8. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
Auditing.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 The World Fellowship of Buddhists Sri Lanka
Centre (Incorporation) Act No. 1 of 2009
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
annually by a qualified auditor appointed by the Executive
Committee.
(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—
(a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law, who possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued by
the Council of such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law, who possesses a certificate to
practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council of
such Institute.
9. All debts and liabilities of the Centre existing on the
day immediately preceding the date of commencement of
this  Act, shall be paid by the Corporation, hereby constituted
and all debts due to and subscriptions and contributions
payable to the centre on that day shall be paid to the
Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
10. No member of the Corporation shall, for the
purpose of discharging the debts and liabilities of the
Corporation, or for any other purpose, be liable to make
any contribution exceeding the amount of such
membership fees as may be due from time to time to the
Corporation.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or institutions
having objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which
is or are by the rules prohibited from distributing any income
or property among its or their members.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Centre.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Limitation of
liability of
members.

<!-- page 8 -->

The World Fellowship of Buddhists Sri Lanka
Centre (Incorporation) Act No. 1 of 2009
7
12. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two
members of the Executive C ommittee of the Corporation
and who shall sign their names to the instrument in token of
their presence and such signing shall be independent of the
signing of any person as a witness.
13 Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or  of any body politic or
corporate.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 The World Fellowship of Buddhists Sri Lanka
Centre (Incorporation) Act No. 1 of 2009
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO   05  befor 15th
                           December each year in respect of the year following.