

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2375$21 - 2024 ud¾;= ui 12 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2024'03'12
No. 2375/21  -  tuesday,   March  12,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a - PG 6671- 604 (03/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
FIShERIES   AND   AquATIC   RESOuRCES   ACT,   No.  2  OF  1996
Fisheries development and Management Plan of the chilaw Lagoon Management area made under subsection (4) of 
section 31B of the Fisheries and aquatic resources act, No. 2 of 1996
 Douglas Dev ananDa,
 Minister of Fisheries.
colombo,
12th March, 2024.
Fisheries Development and Management Plan of the Chilaw Lagoon
   the document containing these laws, rules, regulations principles and the implementation methodology has been 
formulated with a view to maintaining the environmental conditions of the chilaw Lagoon located in Puttalam district in a 
sustainable manner thereby ensuring and improving the livelihoods carried out in and around the lagoon.
after the plan is approved and forwarded to the director General of Fisheries and aquatic resources by the 
coordinating committee of chilaw Lagoon, the director General having examined the compliance with the matters 
mentioned in the act shall forward the same to the Minister of Fisheries for approval. (section 31B).
Once the plan is approved and published in the Gazette the matters in the plan shall become operative (subsection 
4 of section 31B)
the Minister shall give effect to the provisions of the plan by making appropriate regulations under section 61 and 
by publishing appropriate notifications under Section 34. (Subsection 5 of the Section 31B)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2024
2a
 01.  Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee of Chliaw Lagoon.
  the committee appointed by the director General of Fisheries and aquatic resources under the section 31a  of 
the Fisheries and aquatic resources act No. 2 of 1996 as amended No. 35 of 2013 designated as the Fisheries 
Management coordinating committee of chilaw Lagoon hereinafter. (its composition is shown under annexure 01)
 02.  The area in which the Fisheries Development and Management Plan of Chilaw Lagoon is implemented
  Chilaw Lagoon waters and the land area belonging to 30 identified Grama Niladhari divisions adjacent thereto 
belonging to the divisional secretariat divisions of Mahawewa, Madampe, chilaw and arachchikattuwa in 
Puttalam district North Western Province of sri Lanka (chilaw Lagoon Management area published in the Gazette 
extraordinary No. 1964/3 and dated 25.04.2016 provisions in section 31(1) of the Fisheries Management areas of 
the Fisheries and aquatic resources act, No. 2 of 1996 as amended No. 35 of 2013 is designated as the Fisheries 
Management area of chilaw Lagoon).
Geographical Area
The lagoon area identified within Chilaw Lagoon will be described by the map contaning in GPS data. (Annexure No. 02).
Grama Niladhari Divisions of Mahawewa Divisional Secretariat Division bordering the identified area of land of the Chilaw 
Lagoon.
 1.  531 a thoduwawa North Grama Niladhari division
 2. 532      iranawila West Grama Niladhari division
 3.  532 a iranawila east Grama Niladhari division
Grama Niladhari Divisions of Madampe Divisional Secretariat Division bordering the identified area of land of the Chilaw 
Lagoon.
 1.  560      Pambala south Grama Niladhari division
 2.  560  a  Pambala Grama Niladhari division
 3.  534  c Galahitiyawa Grama Niladhari division
Grama Niladhari Divisions of Chilaw Divisional Secretariat Division bordering the identified area of land of the Chilaw 
Lagoon.
 1.  561  Kakkapalliya Grama Niladhari division
 2.  562  ambakandawila Grama Niladhari division
 3.  562 a Walihena Grama Niladhari division
 4.  563  Pahala Olidaluwa Grama Niladhari division
 5. 566  Merawala  Grama Niladhari division
 6. 566 B  Maikkulama Grama Niladhari division
 7. 566 c  inigodawala Grama Niladhari division
 8. 575 a  Kurusapaduwa Grama Niladhari division
 9. 575 c  egodawatta Grama Niladhari division
 10. 576 aluthwatta Grama Niladhari division
 11. 576 a  aluthwatta Grama Niladhari division
 12. 577  Weralabada Grama Niladhari division
 13. 578 a  Pitipana south Grama Niladhari division
 14. 578 B  Pitipana North Grama Niladhari division
 15. 579  Wattakkalliya  Grama Niladhari division
 16. 579 B  deduru Oya Grama Niladhari division

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2024
3a
Grama Niladhari Divisions of Arachchikattuwa Grama Niladhari Division bordering the identified area of land of the Chilaw 
Lagoon.
 1. 591  Battuluoya Grama Niladhari division
 2. 590  anavilundawa  Grama Niladhari division
 3. 589  suruwila Grama Niladhari division
 4. 585 B Wairankattuwa Grama Niladhari division  
 5. 583  Kusala  Grama Niladhari division
 6. 584  Kottapitiya Grama Niladhari division
 7. 582  Karukkupane Grama Niladhari division
 8. 573  Bangadeniya Grama Niladhari division
 03.  Major activities to be implemented with the involvement of the Fisheries Management Coordinating 
Committee of the Chilaw Lagoon.
  t o formulate a plan including activities / development proposals that can or should be implemented in the chilaw 
Lagoon and around it and to implement the same based on the principles indicated in the plan.
  all the members and partner institutions of the coordinating committee of the chilaw Lagoon shall operate their 
services and provide relevant permissions based in the plan.
 04.  Principles
  the Fisheries Management coordinating committee should act according to the following principles and values in 
decision making on harvesting, use and consumption of the resources of the lagoon ecosystem in order to preserve 
the biodiversity of the lagoon eco system, wildlife and to meet justice between generations.
 • Equitable distribution of resources
 • Lawfulness
 • Co-ordination/representation
 • Transparency
 • Environmental friendliness
 • Efficiency and effectiveness
 • Accountability
 • Common consensus (irrespective of race/religion/caste/political/professional power)
 • Effective response
 • Collectivity
 • Sustainable use of resources 
 05.  Institutional structure
           05.01. Implementation Methodology
 1.  There are 12 Lagoon Fisheries Management Committees that include lagoon fishermen engaged in the 
fisheries industry in Chilaw Lagoon. (Fisheries Management Committees had been established and registered  
for chilaw Lagoon Management  area published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 1772/29 and dated 22.08.2012 
by director General of Fisheries and aquatic resources provisions in sub section 3 of section 32 of Fisheries 
and aquatic resources act, No. 2 of 1996).

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2024
4a
 Name of the Fisheries Committee Registration No.
 1.1 Muthupanthiya Lagoon Fisheries Management committee dFar/F.com/c.L./01
 1.2 Naguleliya Lagoon Fisheries Management committee dFar/F.com/c.L./02
 1.3 aluthwatta carmel Mata Lagoon Fisheries Management committee dF ar/F.com/c.L./03
 1.4 Palugasthanna  Lagoon Fisheries Management committee dFar/F.com/c.L./04
 1.5 Welihena Lagoon Fisheries Management committee dFar/F.com/c.L./05
 1.6 Merawela st. Joseph Lagoon Fisheries Management committee dF ar/F.com/c.L./06
 1.7 iranawila  Fisheries Management committee dFar/F.com/c.L./07
 1.8 ambakandavila Fisheries Lagoon Management committee dFar/F.com/c.L./08
 1.9 thaladiya Beach  Fisheries Management committee dFar/F.com/c.L./09
 1.10 Pambala st. sebastian Fisheries Management committee dFar/F.com/c.L./10
 1.11 Karukkupane Lagoon Fisheries Management committee dFar/F.com/c.L./11
 1.12 st. Michael  Lagoon Fisheries Management committee dFar/F.com/c.L./12
 2.  the 12 lagoon Fisheris Management committee shall meet separately once every month on agreed dates.
 3.  twelve (12) members shall represent in the chilaw Lagoon Fisheries Management coordinating committee 
with one member representing each Lagoon Fisheries Management committee who is elected at the 12 Lagoon 
Fisheries Management committees. 
 4.  the annual General Meeting of the 12 Lagoon Fisheries Management committee is held in december every 
year.
 5.  the coordinating committee will be established for chilaw Lagoon with the representation of 12 chilaw 
Lagoon Fisheries Management committee in accordance with the Fisheries and aquatic resources act, No. 
2 of 1996 and the provisions of the Fisheries and aquatic resources (amendment) act, No. 35 of 2013. its 
composition is mentioned under annexure 01
 6.  the Fisheries Management coordinating committee of chilaw Lagoon shall be held once every 3 months 
and the district assistant director of Fisheries shall function as its secretary while the director General of 
department of Fisheries and aquatic resources and the district secretary functions as co-chairmen.
 7.  in the case of an essential requirement, the said committee can meet even before the prescribed period.
 7.1  Decision making methodology within the institutional structure.
 1. the decision making process in respect of harvesting, use and consumption of the aquatic resources 
of the lagoon shall be carried out by the Lagoon Fisheries Management committee and the Fisheries 
Management coordinating committee of chilaw Lagoon in accordance with the principles and 
agreements identified in this plan.
 2. the director General of Fisheries and the district secretary of Puttalam shall function as the co-
chairman of the Fisheris Management coordinating committee of chilaw Lagoon.
 3.  Fishing operations in the lagoon shall be monitored by the Lagoon Fisheries Management committee 
and/or Fisheries Officers, If there are any unsolvable issues, the same shall be referred to the Fisheries 
Management coordinating committee of chilaw Lagoon.
 4. When submitting proposals of chilaw Lagoon Fisheries Management committee to the Fisheries 
Management coordinating committee of chilaw Lagoon, the proposals to be submitted shall be adopted 
with majority votes by each Fisheries Management Committee. Then, the members representing the 
Fisheries Management coordinating committee of chilaw Lagoon shall cause the same to be taken up 
and decided on at the Fisheries Management coordinating committee of chilaw Lagoon.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2024
5a
 5. the proposals presented by the Fisheries Management coordinating committee of chilaw Lagoon and 
the other partners for the decision of the Fisheries Management coordinating committee of chilaw 
Lagoon shall be taken up at the Fisheries Management coordinating committee of chilaw Lagoon 
(subject to No. 7.1.1)
 6. When submitting a development proposal that may effect the lagoon ecosystem to the member institutions 
or partners of the chilaw Lagoon coordinating committee for seeking permissions and discussions or 
when implementing such a development plan, necessary approval for the same shall initially be taken 
from the Fisheries Management coordinating committee of chilaw Lagoon.
 6.1 in giving the approval, it should be informed to take an approval of the central enviornmental 
authority/Provincial environmental authority (environmetal impact assessment/environmental 
recommendation) and subsequently, the recommendation of the relevant report shall be submitted 
to the recommendation of the technical committee of the Fisheries Management coordinating 
committee of chilaw Lagoon.
 6.2 The Committee shall appoint a Technical Committee that is only relevant to a specific project from 
among the members of the Fisheries Management coordinating committee of chilaw Lagoon.
 7. the Fisheries Management coordinating committee of chilaw Lagoon shall make a development plan 
referred under heading number 05 for the lagoon and accordingly, the committee by implementing the 
same, shall take action to monitor, regulate and review the plan.
             06. Conservation of protected natural resources and eco species of the lagoon.
  All that plant communities in the mangrove ecosystem including the land strip/lagoon water/fish, birds and other 
aquatic organisms and the islands within the lagoon will be designated as natural resources belonging to the chilaw 
Lagoon. 
 1. Mangroves should not be destroyed in the Lagoon Management area and Mangroves be replanted as 
appropriate.
 2. Waste should be disposed of –
 I. When releasing water to the lagoon from shrimp farms adjacent to the lagoon, the same should not be 
released to the lagoon without it being stored in residual tanks in the farm for at least two weeks.
 ii. Waste water or solid waste discharged from animal farms, factories, hotels, houses, vessels and 
institutions should not be disposed of to the management area.
 III. All living and non living resources other than consumable fish shall be considered research/acquisition/
destruction/filling done without the permission and the approval of the Fisheries Management 
coordinating committee of chilaw  Lagoon and no such activity shall be carried out within the lagoon 
and protected area.
 3. declaration of sensitive areas in the chilw Lagoon.
  The fisheries management coordinating committee of chilaw lagoon may designate sensitive areas of the 
lagoon from time to time and no any fishing activitiers shall be carried out in these areas
           07.  The activities that can be and cannot be done and restrictions within the Chilaw Lagoon.
 1. Only the fishermen who have obtained membership of each of the 12 Fisheries Management Committee are 
permitted to engage in fishing industry in the lagoon.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2024
6a
 2. Having registered the fishing vessels engaging in fisheries industry and fishing operations in accordance with 
the fisheries and Aquatic Resources Act, No. 2 of 1996, painted the registration numbers properly and obtained 
fisheries operations licences, the respective fishing operations shall be carried out.
 3. It fishing vessels are used for fishing operations in the lagoon, only non-mechanized fishing vessels can be used 
for that purpose.
 4.  Fishing methods in the lagoon.
 1. Mesh size of gill nets should not be less than 1 1/2" and the maximum net size that can be set is 10 net 
pieces with the length of 3000 mesh. Fishing operations can be carried out by means of the nets set in the 
lagoon (gill nets) from 4 pm to 6 am.
 2. the mesh size of middle nets of trammel net laid for shrimp in the lagoon shall be not less than 1/2" 
and the maximum net size which can be set for shrimp fishing is 20 net pieces with a length of 3000 
mesh. Also the mesh size of the triple nets set for catching other fish should not be less than 2 1/2". The 
maximum size of nets that can be set is about 12 net pieces with a length of 3000 mesh. trammel nets 
can be used in the lagoon only from 4 pm to 6 am.
 3. Only the members of Pambala, Merawala, Karukkupane Lagoon Management committees can engage 
in fishing operations using mangrove brush piles. The circumference of one pen should not exceed 25 
fathoms (450 meter) and the number of brush files should be not more than 8.
 4. Fishing operations carried out by means of cast nets, lift nets for lagoon crabs, longlines, pole and line 
can be done at any time of the day.
 5. Only members selected by the aluthwatta carmel Matha Fisheries Management committee can carry 
out fyke net fishing only in the places and on dates assigned by the Committee.
 6. Basket cane traps can be set from the mouth of the lagoon to the Muthupanthiya in the dutch cannel 
with some management and when tying a basket cane trap, an empty space of about 3 meters should be 
left in the middle of the cannel.
 7. Also, fishing operations using lift nets for crabs, oyster landing operations, fishing operation by hand 
outside the mangrove areas can be carried out from the mouth of the Maha (big) lagoon only towards the 
south of the lagoon starting from inigodawela, Pahala Olidaluwa Grama Niladhari division by beating 
the water with a rod and scaring fish.
 8. In addition to the above mentioned operations, no any other fishing operations shall be carried out in the 
chilaw Lagoon without the permission of the Fisheries coordinating committee of chilaw Lagoon (not 
applicable to the experiments of the National aquatic research and development agency)
     9.    aquaculture
 1. Pen culture –
 i. Only the members of the Lagoon Management committee can carry out pen culture in the 
lagoon.
 ii. Pen culture can be carried out only after receiving the approval of the Fisheries coordinating 
committee of chilaw Lagoon on the recommendation of the respective committee.
 iii. after receiving the approval of the Fisheries Management coordinating committee of 
chilaw Lagoon, operations licence should be obtained from the National aquaculture 
development authority of sri Lanka of this purpose.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2024
7a
 2. Shrimp/fish culture carried out in ponds –
 i. Permission will not be given to carry out new shrimp culture in the management area.
 ii. the approval of Fisheries Management coordinating committee of chilaw Lagoon should 
be obtained to resume shrimp of fish culture at an abandoned site of such culture upon the 
recommendation of the Lagoon Management committee in the respective area.
 iii. after receiving this approval, operations licenses should be obtained from the National 
aquaculture development authority of sri Lanka for this purpose.
 08.  Landing Sites of the Chilaw Lagoon where the fishing boats are moored.
 1. Muthupanthiya Lagoon Fisheries Management committee - G. N. div. - anavilundawa No. 590
  the Landing site near the community hall.
 2. Naguleliya Lagoon Fisheries Management committee  - G. N. div. anavilundawa No. 590
  the Landing  site near church
  Wairankattuwa - G. N. div. Wairankattuwa No. 585 B
 3. Karukkupane Lagoon Fisheries Management committee - G. N. div. Karukkupane No. 582
 
  Periyakarukkupane
  Medapaduwa (Near the church)
  sinnakarukkupane
 4. thaladiyawella Lagoon Fisheries Management committee - G. N. div. egodawatta 575 c, Kurusapaduwa 
  No. 575 a
  thaladiyawella Landing site
 5. aluthwatta carmel Mata Lagoon Fisheries Management committee - G. N. div. aluthwatta No. 576, 
aluthwatta No. 576 a, Maikkulama No. 566 B
  aluthwatta Landing site
  Old canoe Landing site in front of the church Pitipana North
  Maikkulama
 6. Merawala st. Joseph  Lagoon Fisheries Management committee - G. N. div. Merawala No. 566
  Merawala colony 1
  Merawala colony 2
  Merawala colony 3
  harindra area
 7. Pambala st. sebestian  Lagoon Fisheries Management committee - G. N. div. Pambala North No. 560, 
Pambala south No. 560 a
  road end in from of the public cemetery
  end of sarvodyaya road.
  Near the artisanal Fisheries Federation

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2024
8a
 8. Welihena st. anthony Lagoon Fisheries Management committee - G. N. div. Welihena south No. 562 a
  st. anthony Landing site, Welihena
  Rajawatta Landing Site, Welihena
 9. Palugasthanna Lagoon Fisheries Management committee - G. N. div. Welihena south No. 562 a
  Washington Landing site
  thinthaya Landing site (Old Landing site)
 10. ambakandawila Lagoon Fisheries Management committee - G. N. div. ambakandsawila Fisheries No. 562
  sarapuwatta Landing site
  riyansi Farm Landing site
  ambakandawila Landing site
  Gangoda Landing site
 11. iranawila Lagoon Fisheries Management committee - G. N. div. iranawila east No. 532 a, iranawila West  
No. 532, thoduwawa North No. 531 a
  samidugama Landing site
  Fisheries Villages Landing site
  thoduwawa North
  the number of vessels opeerated from each landing site can be limited.
 09. Submission of amendments to the Fisheries Development and Management Plan of Chilaw Lagoon
  the Fisheries Management coordinating committee of chilaw Lagoon shall follow up the Fisheries development 
and Management plan once every 3  years and include the amendments and proposals thereto. Once the amendments 
and  proposals  so entered are approved by the committee, the same shall be presented to the director General of 
Fisheries and be entered in the Fisheries Management regulations of chilaw Lagoon.
 10. Violating the contents introduced in the Fisheries Development and Management Plan of Chilaw Lagoon.
  When the contents in this plan related to the Fishing activities and the environment of the lagoon  are violated, every 
partner of the Fisheries Management coordinating committee of chilaw Lagoon shall identify the persons who 
violate the rules and agreements and then necessary legal action can be taken against them in accordance with the 
regulations issued in terms of this Plan and the prescripts received by the relevant partners.
Annexure - 1
upon the nomination made by the Fisheries Management coordinating committee of chilaw Lagoon established for the 
chilaw Lagoon Fisheries Management area in provisions of the Fisheries and aquatic resources act, No. 2 of 1996 as 
amended Act, No. 35 of 2013, the officers to be included in that committee are as follows :
the coordinating committee shall be constituted by the director General from among the following taking into 
consideration the matter to be determined by such coordinating committee under the subsection 2 of the section 31 of the 
aforesaid Fisheries act. 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2024
9a
 1. district secretary - Puttalam
 2. Assistant Director and two officers of the District Fisheries of Chilaw of the Department of Fisheries and Aquatic 
resources.
 3. divisional secretary - Mahawewa
 4. divisional secretary - Madampe
 5. divisional secretary - chilaw
 6. divisional secretary - arachchikattuwa
 7. chairman, Pradeshiya sabha - Naththandiya 
 8. chairman, Pradeshiya sabha - chilaw
 9. chairman, urban council - chilaw
 10. chairman, Pradeshiya sabha - arachchikattuwa
 11. An officer nominated by the Chairman of the Urban Development Authority
 12. director, Ministry of Fisheries, North Western Province
 13. An officer nominated by the Director General of Department of Coastal Conservation and Coastal Resources 
Management.
 14. An officer nominated by the Chairman of the National Aquatic Resources Research and Development Agency.
 15. An officer nominated by the Chairman of the National Aquaculture Development Authority of Sri Lanka
 16. An officer nominated by the Director General of the Provincial Environmental Authority (NWP)
 17. An officer nominated by the Director General of the Department of Wild Life Conservation
 18. An officer nominated by the Director General of Department of Forest Conservation
 19. An officer nominated by the Chairman of the Central Environmental Authority
 20. An officer nominated by the Marine Environment Protection Authority
 21. An officer nominated by the Ministry of Land
 22. An officer nominated by the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority
 23. An officer of the Department of Sri Lanka Police nominated by the Deputy Inspector General of Police (NWP)
 24. An officer nominated by the Director General of the Department of Coast Guard
 25. An officer of the Sri Lanka Navy nominated by the Commander North Western Naval Area.
 26. commissioner of Local Government (North Western Province)
 27. a  representative of the traditional Fyke Net  association of chilaw
 28. a  representative of the Pambala small Fisheries Federation
 29. a  representative of the chilaw sedec Organization
 30. a  representative of the sri Lanka aquaculture development Organization
 31. 12 representatives for the chilaw Lagoon Fisheries Management committee at a rate of one representative from each 
committee.
              

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2024
10a
Annexture  02

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2024
11a
Annexture  03
FIShERIES  AND  AquATIC   RESOuRCES  ACT,  No. 2 OF 1996
NOtiFicatiON made by the director-General of Fisheries and aquatic resources under sub-section 3 of section 32 of the 
Fisheries and aquatic resources act, No. 2 of 1996.
Notice
   It is hereby notified that a Fisheries Management Committees had been established and registered for Chilaw 
Fisheries Management area published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 1744/4, 8th of February, 2012
Name of the Fisheries Committee Registration No.
1. Mutupanthiya Fisheries Lagoon Management committee dFar/F. com/c.L./01
2. Naguleliya Fisheries Lagoon Management committee dFar/F. com/c.L./02
3. aluth Watta carmel Matha Fisheries Lagoon Management committee dFar/F. com/c.L./03
4. Palugastanna Fisheries Lagoon Management committee dFar/F. com/c.L./04
5. Walihena Fisheries Lagoon Management committee dFar/F. com/c.L./05
6. Marawala st. Joseph Fisheries Lagoon Management committee dFar/F. com/c.L./06
7. iranawila east diyawara Village Fisheries Lagoon Management committee dFar/F. com/c.L./07
8. ambakandawila Fisheries Lagoon Management committee dFar/F. com/c.L./08
9. thaladiyawella Fisheries Lagoon Management committee dFar/F. com/c.L./09
10. Pambala st. sebastian Fisheries Lagoon Management committee dFar/F. com/c.L./10
11. Karukapana Fisheries Lagoon Management committee dFar/F. com/c.L./11
12. st. Micayel Fisheries Lagoon Management committee dFar/F. com/c.L./12
 N. D. HettiaracHcHi, 
 director General,
 department of Fisheries and aquatic resources.
department of Fisheries and aquatic resources, 
New secretariat Building,
Maligawatta, colombo 10,
15th august, 2012.
eOG  03 - 0115
PriNteD at tHe DePartMeNt OF GOVerNMeNt PriNtiNG,  Sri LaNKa.