

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
AL MANAR COLLEGE (INCORPORATION)
————————
[Bill No. 33]
————————
————————
to incorporate the Al Manar College
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10. 00
2-2d
2-
2-PL 009496 —225 (12/2015)
Presented by  Hon. K. Kader Masthan M. P. for Vanni District
on 02nd December, 2015
(Published in the Gazette on November 09, 2015)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed

<!-- page 2 -->

1Al Manar College (Incorporation)
2—PL 009322—300 (10/2015)
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation
of Al Manar
College.
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE AL MANAR COLLEGE
WHERE a college called and known as the “Al Manar College”
has heretofore been establish by the New Kaththankudy - 03,
for the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting all
objects and matters connected with the said College according
to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said College has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the objects and
matters  for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the advantage to grant such
application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the 
Al Manar College
(Incorporation) Act, No.      2015.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Al Manar College” (hereinafter referred to as the “College”)
or shall hereafter be admitted  as members shall be a body
corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)
with perpetual succession under the name and style of
“
Al Manar College”  and by that name may sue and be sued
in all courts, with full power and authority to have and use a
common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) catering to the needs of religious education of the
state School children;
(b) giving special training in selected Islamic
Religious fields on the basis of student’s choice;
5
10
15
20
25
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Al Manar College (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(c) creating the students as persons possessing clear
religious knowledge;
(d) creating a new generation with Islamic knowledge
and culture;
(e) laying a foundation for creating Islamic scholars;
(f) creating qualified preachers to preach Islam among
Muslims and non-Muslims;
(g) spreading Arabic Language among Muslims and
creating eligible people to continue their education
in Arabic Languge;
(h) creating Eligible analysts who will identify and
find solutions to specific problems faced by the
minority Muslim community living in Sri Lanka;
(i) providing basic fundamentals to know about other
religious;
(j) teaching other essential  courses;
(k) teaching and equipping students to sit for other
educational examinations implemented and
conducted by the government in the country;
(l) giving Training to students in technical subjects;
(m) enabling students to study in hostels made available
to them; and
(n) making arrangements to enable students to follow
graduate studies in educational institutions abroad
which possesses similar objectives to that of the
college.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Al Manar College (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, be
administerd by a committee of Management consisting of
the Director General, the Honorary Secretary and the
Honorary Treasurer and not less than eleven other members
as may be provided for in those rules and elected in
accordance therewith.
(2) The first Committee of the Corporation shall consist
of the member of the Committee of Management of the
College holding office on the day preceding the date of the
commencement of this Act.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and thing
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
of furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any
one of them, including the power to acquire and hold
property  moveable, to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise money with or without security,to
erect any building or structures on any land held by the
Corporation and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and
servants required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any General Meeting of the members and by
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters:—
(a) classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable;
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
General
powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Al Manar College (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Board of Directors, the quorum for such meetings
and the exercise and perfomance of their powers
and duties;
(c) the appointment, power, duties and functions of
the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(d) qualification required to become a member
of the Corporation and of the Board of Directors;
and
(e) the administrations and management of the property
of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the College existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to  subscriptions and contributions payable to the
College on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the
purpose of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or
grants for and on account of the Corporation shall be
deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or more
banks as the Board of Directors shall determine.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
College.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Al Manar College (Incorporation)
5
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and function under this Act.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property,  movable and immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of  any purchase,
grant, lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and
all such property shall be held by the Corporation for the
purposes of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation, with full power  to sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. No members of the Corporation there remains after
the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities of the
Corporation or for any other purpose, be liable to make any
contribution exceeding the such membership fees as may be
due from him to the Corporation.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not
be distributed among the members of the Corporation, but
shall be given or transferred to some other institution or
institutions having objects similar to those of the
Corporation and which, is or are by its or their rules prohibited
from distributing any income or property among their
members.
12. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper accounts to be kept of all moneys received and
expended by the Corporation.
(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by a auditor or auditors
appointed by the Board of Directors.
10
15
20
25
30
Audit and
accounts.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Limitation of
Liabilities of
members.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Al Manar College (Incorporation)
5
10
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such
number of person as may be provided for in the rules in force
for the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence and such
singning shall be independent of the signing of any person
as a witness.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or any other person such as are mentioned in this
Act and those claiming by from or under them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Al Manar College (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .