

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'12
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2010
333
333
wxl 1"641 - 2010 fmnrjdß ui 12 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'02'12
No. 1,641 – FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 12, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 19th February, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 05th
February, 2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 01
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... —
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.– Part II of the Gazette No. 1,640 of  05.02.2010 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'12
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2010
334
Provincial Council Notifications
1. This Statue may be cited as the Finance (Supplementary Provisions) (Amendment) Statute No. 05 of 2007
of the Provincial Council of the Southern Province and shall come into operation with effect from the date on which the
Governor gave the assent.
2. Paragraph 1 of the Finance (Supplementary Provisions) Statue No. 02 of 1994 of the Provincial Council of
the Southern Province (hereinafter referred to as the Principal Enactment) is amended by numbering as number 8
immediately after number 7 of that paragraph and by the substitution of the "Betting on Horse Racing Ordinance"
thereto.
3. The following new section is hereby inserted immediately after Section 6 and shall have effect as Section 6A
of the principal enactment.
6A(1) Subject to the rates permitted by low passed by Parliament, a tax at such rates as may be determined
by the Minister by order, published in the Gazette, may be levied and recovered on any land or
building situated within the province, calculated on the capital value of such land or building.
(2) The term land referred to Sub-section (1) shall include the crown land and the term building shall
include any building owned by the government.
(3) Every order made under Subsection (1) shall be published in the Gazette and shall be placed before the
Provincial Council for approval within one month of such publication and any order which is not so
approved shall be deemed to be rescinded with effect from the date of such disapproval, but without
prejudice to anything previously done there under.
(4) Where the term "capital value" is used in respect of any building, it shall mean the cost of construction
of such building including the improvements and additions effected to such building any fixtures fixed
thereto and value of the land on which such building is situated and where such term is used in respect
of bare land, it shall mean the market value of such land, on the 31st December of the previous year.
(5) The provisions of this Section shall come into operation on such date as may be appointed by the
Minister.
SOUTHERN  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Finance (Supplementary Provision) (amendment) Statute No. 05 of 2007 of
Provincial Council of the Southern Province
I Gustinnawadu Shan Wijayalal De Silva, Chief Minister and Minister of Finance, Southern Province, do hereby order that the Fin ance
(Supplementary Provision) (amendment) Statute shall come into operation with effect from 22.12.2008, the date on which her Excellency
the Governor of the Southern Province gave her assent to that statute.
GUSTINNAWADU SHAN WIJAYALAL DE SIL V A,
Chief Minister and Minister of Finance.
Office of the Chief Minister,
Southern Provincial Council – Galle,
21st December, 2009,
Galle.
FINANCE (SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS) (AMENDMENT) STATUTE No. 05 OF 2007 OF
PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF THE SOUTHERN PROVINCE
Be it enacted by the Provincial Council of the Southern Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :
Short title and the date
of operation.
Amendment of
Paragraph 1 of the
Finance
(Supplementary
Provisions) Statue
No. 02 of 1994 of the
Provincial Council
of the Southern
Province.
Insertion new Section
6A in the principal
Enactment.
Land and building
Tax.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'12
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2010
335
4. The following new Chapter is hereby inserted immediately after Chapter VII of the principal enactment :–
CHAPTER VII
BETTING TAX
13 (1) A tax (hereinafter referred to as the Betting tax) shall be levied and charged on bets placed or accepted
whether on cash or on credit, at any place or premises within the province, on horse racing (held in Sri
Lanka or abroad), at such rates as may be determined by the Minister by regulations published in the
Gazette.
(2) Every regulation made under Subsection (1) shall be published in the Gazette and shall be placed
before the Provincial Council for approval within one month from such publication and any regulation
which is not so approval shall be deemed to be rescinded with effect from the date of such disapproval,
but without prejudice to anything previously done there under.
(3) The betting tax levied under this Section shall be chargeable, immediately after placing such bet and the
person liable to pay such tax shall pay total of such tax to the Provincial commissioner of Revenue
within ten days after the expiry of one calendar month from the date on which such tax becomes due.
(4) Where a person liable to pay the betting tax on or before the due date as specified in subsection (3) fails
to pay such tax, such person shall be deemed to be a defaulter.
(5) Where the payment of any betting tax has been defaulted, the defaulter shall pay a fine equal to ten per
centum of the amount which has been so defaulted and in the case of a continuing default, an additional
fine not less than two per centum, subject to maximum of fifty per centum, of sum in default for every
month of such default.
(6) Where the payment of a betting tax inclusive of the fine referred to in Subsection (5) has been
defaulted, it may be recovered as debt due to the Provincial Council.
(7) If any business referred to in this Section is an illegal business, the provisions of this statute shall not
be construed as to give legality to such business.
5. The principal enactment is hereby amended by re-numbering of Chapter VII as VIII.
6. The principal enactment is hereby amended by re-numbering Section 13, 14 and 15 as Section 14, 15 and
16 respectively.
7. In the event of any inconsistency among the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Statues, the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
02–256
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Insertion new
Chapter will be the
principal enactment.
Betting tax.
Renumbering of
Chapter VII.
Re-numbering of
Section 13, 14 and
15 of principal
enactment.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistence.