

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1542 
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … 1536
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"196 – 2020 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 02 jeks isl=rdod – 2020'10'02
No. 2,196  –  fRiday , OctObER  02, 2020
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtiON is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 23rd October, 2020 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 09th October, 2020.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2020.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1533 - b 82063- 5,403 (10/2020)
N. B.–  Part iii and iV (a) of the Gazette No. 2,195 of 25.09.2020 were not published.
Note.–    (i) civil Procedure code (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 25, 2020.
 (ii) Minimum age of Marriage bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of September 25, 2020.
 (iii) Marriage Registration (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 25, 2020.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1534
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1535
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the Sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. Moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. Unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ She shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. Since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. Marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
Make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1536
uRbAN SETTLEmENT DEvELOPmENT AuThORITy
ministry of urban Development and housing
StatE MiNiStRy Of URbaN dEVELOPMENt, cOaSt cONSERVatiON, WaStE diSPOSaL, aNd PUbLic 
cLEaNLiNESS
tHE prime objective of the Urban Settlement development authority is to uplift the living standard of the under-served, 
low-income dwellers in urban areas providing them with a sustainable Urban Settlement development by enhancing existing 
housing units or providing access to affordable housing and minimum urban facilities. 
applications are invited from Sri Lankan citizens to recruit for the following posts permanently since the involvement of 
professionals in the field of Human Settlement Development is required to achieve these objectives.
Designation Salary Code
assistant director (Social Mobilization) MM 1-1
Technical Officer JM 1-1            
Development Officer Ma 5-1
data Processing assistant Ma 5-1
community development assistant Ma 3
technical assistant Ma 2-1
Management assistant (Non-technical ) Ma 1-1
Social development assistant Ma 1-1
Office Aid PL 1
Record Keeper PL 1
General Qualifications of Recruitment.– Every candidate should:
(a)  be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b)  Have a high level of physical and mental fitness required to perform the duties assigned to the post and to serve in 
any part of the island.
(c)  Have an excellent character.
01. Assistant Director (Social mobilization)
 Educational Qualifications :
(a)  first degree with Social Science as a subject obtained from a university recognized by the University Grants 
commission; 
 with
(b) At least 03 years’ experience in social mobilization or a similar field in the government or a government 
establishment or a private institution recognized by the government after obtaining the degree.
 Other 
 completion of a two-year full-time professional diploma in Social Work awarded by the National institute of 
Social Development (School of Social Work, Sri Lanka) will be an additional qualification.
Age.- Not less than 25 or more than 45 years of age. 
Posts – vacant

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1537
Salary Scale according to Management 
Services circular No. 02/2016
Rs. 53,175 -10 x 1,375 – 15 x 1,910 – Rs. 95,575 
Salary Step as at 01.01.2020  Rs. 53,175.00
allowances cost of Living allowance and other allowances entitled to the post.
02. Technical Officer
 Educational Qualifications :
(a) bachelor of Science degree in civil Engineering / Quantity Surveying / draftsman obtained from a university 
recognized by the University Grants commission
 with
 At least one-year (01) experience in the technical field in the government or a government establishment or a 
private institution recognized by the government. 
Age.- Not less than 25 or more than 45 years of age.  
Salary Scale according to Management 
Services circular No. 02/2016 Rs. 42,600 – 10 x 755-18 x 1,135 - Rs. 70,580
Salary Step as at 01.01.2020  Rs. 42,600.00
 allowances cost of Living allowance 
03. Development Officer
  Educational Qualifications :
(a) degree with Social Science or agriculture as a subject obtained from a university recognized by the University 
Grants commission 
 or 
(b) completion of a two-year full-time professional diploma in Social Work or diploma in agriculture along 
with a degree obtained from a university recognized by the University Grants commission. 
 Age.– Not less than 22 or more than 35 years of age  
Salary Scale according to Management 
Services circular No. 02/2016 Rs.34,870 – 10 x 660- 15 x 755 – 11 x 930 – Rs. 63,025
Salary Step as at 01.01.2020  Rs. 34,870.00
allowances cost of Living allowance 
04. Data Processing Assistant
 Educational Qualifications :
(a) degree in computer Science / Statistics / information technology / computation and Management and town 
& country Planning as a subject obtained from a university recognized by the University Grants commission
 Age.- Not less than 22 or more than 35 years of age.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1538
Salary Scale according to Management Services 
circular No.02/2016
Rs.34,870 – 10 x 660-15 x 755 – 11 x 930 – Rs. 63,025
Salary Step as at 01.01.2020  Rs. 34,870.00
allowances cost of Living allowance 
05. Community Development Assistant
 Educational Qualifications :
(a) Degree in any field of subject area obtained from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission.
Other Qualifications :
(b) completion of a full-time two year professional diploma in Social Work or diploma in agriculture / Social 
Science obtained from an institute recognized by the Government. 
 Age.- Not less than 22 or more than 35 years of age  
Salary Scale according to Management 
Services circular No. 02/2016 Rs.32,200 – 10 x 445 - 11 x 660  – 10 x 730 – 5x750 – Rs. 54,960
Salary Step as at 01.01.2020  Rs.32,200.00
 allowances cost of Living allowance 
06. Technical Assistant 
Educational Qualifications :
(a) Should have passed 06 subjects including Language or Literature, Mathematics, and Science at the General 
Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination 
and
  Vocational Skills :
(a) Should possess any of the following certificates of a level not less than National V ocational Qualification 
(NVQ) level 05 as prescribe by the tertiary and V ocational Education commission,
 (i) National diploma in technology (civil Engineering)
  or
 (ii) Higher National diploma (Engineering) 
  or
 (iii) National Technical Certificate (Engineering / Quantity Surveying) or a similar certificate in 
civil Engineering / Quantity Surveying obtained from a technical institute recognized by the 
Government 
Age.- Not less than 18 or more than 35 years of age
Salary Scale according to Management 
Services circular No. 02/2016
Rs.30,310 – 10 x300 – 07 x 350 – 4 x 495 – 20  x 660 – Rs. 50,940
Salary Step as at 01.01.2020 Rs. 30,310.00
 allowances cost of Living allowance 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1539
07. management Assistant (Non-Technical)
Educational Qualifications :
(a) Should have passed six (06) subjects with credit passes for Sinhala/tamil Language, Mathematics, English 
Language, and another subject in not more than two sittings at the GcE (O/L) Examination;
 and 
(b) Should have passed three (03) subjects (other than the common General test) at the GcE (a/L) Examination.
Other :
Possession of any of the following certificates will be an additional qualification :
(a) Should have passed aat intermediate Examination,
(b) Foundation Stage Certificate awarded by the Institute of Chartered Accountants,
(c) Foundation Stage Certificate awarded by the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants,
(d) diploma in computer Science obtained from the Government or an institute recognized by the Government,
(e) Certificate of Secretarial Practice obtained from the Government or an institute recognized by the 
Government.
Age.- Not less than 18 or more than 30 years of age
Salary Scale according to Management 
Services circular No. 02/2016
Rs.27,910 – 10 x300 – 07 x 350 – 4 x 495 – 20  x 660 – 
Rs. 48,540
Salary Step as at 01.01.2020 Rs. 27,910.00
allowances cost of Living allowance 
08. Social Development Assistant
Educational Qualifications :
(a) Should have passed six (06) subjects at one sitting with credit passes for four subjects including Sinhala/tamil 
Language, Mathematics, and English Language in not more than two sittings at the GcE (O/L) Examination.
 and
(b) Should have passed four subjects under the old syllabus or three (03) subjects (other than the common General 
test) under the new syllabus at one sitting at the GcE (a/L) Examination
 and
(c) completion of a two-year full-time professional diploma in Social Work awarded by the National institute of 
Social development
 Age.- Not less than 18 or more than 30 years of age
Salary Scale according to Management 
Services circular No. 02/2016
Rs.27,910 – 10 x300 – 07 x 350 – 4 x 495 – 20  x 660 – Rs. 48,540
Salary Step as at 01.01.2020  Rs. 27,910.00
 allowances cost of Living allowance 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1540
09. Office Aid
10. Record keeper
Educational Qualifications :
(a) Should have passed at least two  (02) subjects at the GcE (O/L) Examination.
Age.– Not less than 18 or more than 45 years of age
 (those who have selected for the Multi Purpose development task force established by the cabinet decision 
dated 08/01/2020 may apply for these posts.)
Salary Scale according to Management 
Services circular No. 02/2016
Rs.24,750 – 10 x250 – 10 x 270 –7 x 300  – 15  x 330 – Rs. 37,000
Salary Step as at 01.01.2020 Rs. 24,750.00
 allowances cost of Living allowance 
The Urban Settlement Development Authority has the discretionary authority to make the final decisions on selecting 
suitable candidates. 
the maximum age limit does not apply for the applicants who are already in the service in Government departments, 
Public corporations, and Statutory boards, and they should forward their applications through the Heads of institution.
Application including complete bio-data of the applicant, copies of certificates with names, addresses, and telephone 
numbers of two non-related referees should be forwarded by registered post to reach the following address on or before 
16/10/2020. the post applied for should be written on the top left corner of the envelope.
   director-General,
   Urban Settlement development authority,
09th floor, Sethsiripaya, battaramulla.
telephone: 011-2887721 fax.  011-2887721
E-mail – dg.usda16@gmail.com
10–219
–––––––––––––––––––––
JuDICIAL  SERvICE  COmmISSION
vacancies in the Judicial Service of Sri Lanka
aPPLicatiONS are invited for the post of Judicial Officer Class II Grade I (Magistrate) in Sri Lanka Judicial Service.
1. Applications should be made by persons having the required qualifications and they should reach the Judicial 
Service commission Secretariat on or before 06.11.2020. i.e. the closing date for applications.
2. Salary Scale: Rs.75,000 - 10 x 1,630 - Rs. 91,300 [in accordance with the Management Services circular                       
No. 01/2018].
Allowances to which the Judicial Officers are entitled, would be paid in addition to the salary.
3. Every applicant must be-
(a) a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(b) of excellent moral character and physically fit,
(c) prepared to serve in any part of the island.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1541
04. eligibility:
 (a) a President of Labour tribunal whose period of 
service is not less than two years as at the closing 
date for applications,
 or
 (b) an attorney - at - Law who has or had been in 
active practice for not less than four years as at the 
closing date for applications,
 or
 (c) an attorney - at - Law who has served in the 
capacity of a Legal Officer in any Ministry or 
Government department or a State corporation 
for not less than four years as at the closing date 
for applications,
 or
 (d) an attorney - at - Law who has served in the 
capacity of a Legal Officer in any Firm, Bank or 
Establishment for not less than four years as at the 
closing date for applications and who has regularly 
appeared before court during such period.
05. all the applicants should sit for a written test and will 
be called for an interview based on the results of said test.
Note :
 (i) the receipt obtained by paying 
Rs. 4,000/- as application fee from any 
People's bank branch to the credit of the 
account of "Secretary, Judicial Service 
commission", No. 297100199025039 
of the People's bank, dam Street branch 
should be sent to the J.S.c. Secretariat 
either by registered post or personally to 
obtain the application form. When filling 
the receipt at the time of payment, the 
applicant's name and address should be 
stated in the space provided in the receipt.
 (ii) applicants are kindly requested to 
forward their applications either by 
registered post or personally to the JSc 
Secretariat.
 (iii)  Applications from the officers in the 
Public Service must be forwarded 
through the Head of the department.
the address for obtaining and sending applications:-
 Secretary,
 Judicial Service commission,
 Judicial Service commission Secretariat, 
 colombo 12.
 H. Sanjeewa Somaratne,
 Secretary,
 Judicial Service commission.
Judicial Service commission Secretariat, 
colombo 12,
22nd September, 2020.
10–264
––––––––––––––––––
JuDICIAL  SERvICE  COmmISSION
Post of Chairman/Administrative Appeals 
Tribunal
01. tHE Judicial Service commission has decided to call 
for applications for the post of chairman, administrative 
appeals tribunal. applications should be made by persons 
having the required qualifications and they should reach 
the Judicial Service commission Secretariat on or before 
16.11.2020. i.e., the closing date for applications. 
02. eligibility :
(a) Over 20 years of experience as a public officer 
as at the closing date for applications. 
 or
(b) Over 10 years of experience in the legal 
profession as at the closing date for applications. 
03. the allowances paid to a chairman are as follows :
Monthly allowance  - Rs. 100,000
travelling allowance  - Rs. 50,000 (monthly)
fuel allowance - 225 liters (monthly) (in 
accordance with the market 
price)
telephone allowance - Rs. 10,000 (monthly)
 H. S. 
Somaratne, 
 Secretary, 
 Judicial Service commission. 
Judicial Service commission Secretariat, 
colombo 12, 
23rd September, 2020.
10–399

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1542
mINISTRy Of PubLIC SERvICES, PROvINCIAL COuNCILS AND LOCAL GOvERNmENT
First  Efficiency  Bar  Examination  for  Officers  in  Sri  Lanka  Administrative  Service,                        
Sri  Lanka  Engineering  Service,  Sri  Lanka  Scientific Service,  Sri  Lanka  Architects' Service,                  
Sri Lanka Accountants' Service and Sri Lanka Planning Service -  2018 (II) and Second Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka Accountants' Service and 
Sri Lanka Planning Service - 2019(I)
it is hereby notified that First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka 
Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service, Sri Lanka Architects' Service, Sri Lanka Accountants' Service and Sri Lanka 
Planning Service 2018(II) and Second Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri 
Lanka accountants' Service and Sri Lanka Planning Service - 2019(i), shall be held in colombo during weekends from 24th 
of October 2020 to 08th of November 2020, by the director General, Sri Lanka institute of development administration, 
under the supervision and direction of Ministry of Public Services, Provincial councils and Local Government. 
02. The Efficiency Bar Examinations which is due to be held in respect of the above services shall be as follows: 
Serial No. Name of the examination Code
1. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative  Service  SLaS 1
2. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Engineering  Service SLES
3. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Scientific Service SLSS
4. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Architects' Service  SLarS
5. 1st  Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Accountants' Service  SLacS 1
6. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service SLPS 1
7. Other services which can apply for the above examination Other
8. 2nd  Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative  Service SLaS 2
9. 2nd  Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Accountants' Service  SLacS 2
10. 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service  SLPS 2
  
03. Officers may appear separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, it is 
compulsory to pass the Efficiency Bar Examinations within the prescribed period. 
04. this examination shall be conducted by the director General of Sri Lanka institute of development 
administration and the candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by him with regard to conducting the 
examination. candidates shall be subjected to any punishment imposed by the disciplinary authority for violation of these 
rules and regulations. 
05. applications for the examination can strictly be made online through www.slida.lk, the official web site of the 
Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration. It is possible to commence the filling of application by selecting the 
relevant examination by entering the "Examination division" from the sub menu “Examination” at the right side of web 
site’s main page. 
filling of applications is strictly allowed during the period from 8.00 a.m. on 02.10.2020 up to 12.00 midnight on 
16.10.2020. 
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1543
06. examination Fees .– the candidates appearing 
for the examination for the first time need not to pay the 
examination fees. at such occasions where a candidate, 
who has made application, has not sat for the examination 
even after issuing an admission by Sri Lanka institute of 
development administration that should be considered as a 
sitting for the examination. 
Officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka 
accountants' Service and Sri Lanka Planning Service should 
pay the examination fee considering that the First Efficiency 
Bar Examination as one Examination and Second Efficiency 
bar examination as another examination. accordingly,                       
Rs. 1,000 should be paid if it is applied for more than one 
subject of the First Efficiency Bar Examination. Rs. 1,000 
should be paid if it is applied for more than one subject of the 
Second Efficiency Bar Examination. Rs. 500 should be paid 
if it is applied only for one subject of the First Efficiency Bar 
Examination and Rs. 500 should be paid if it is applied only 
for one subject of the Second Efficiency Bar Examination. 
The Officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka 
Scientific Service and Sri Lanka Architects' Service should 
pay Rs. 1,000, if they applying for more than one subject of 
the First Efficiency Bar Examination and Rs. 500 should be 
paid, if they are sitting for only one subject.  
Examination fee shall be paid by any post office all 
over the island (expect sub post offices) to be credited to 
the "SLida" account and the number of the receipt issued 
shall be indicated in the relevant cages of the application. 
When filling the application for inland telegraphic money 
order (format 85) for payment of money to 'SLida' 
account, "SLida" should be mentioned as the recipient. in 
the meantime, the code name of the relevant examination 
shall be indicated at the place for the recipient's address.                         
(the code names should be as mentioned in section 02).
further, when crediting money to the account, the 
application shall be filled including the name of the applicant 
as the remitter and the N.i.c. Number of the applicant at the 
space for the address of the remitter. 
07. Getting Admissions for the First Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Sri Lanka administrative Service, Sri 
Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service, Sri 
Lanka architects' Service, Sri Lanka accountants' Service 
and Sri Lanka Planning Service and Second Efficiency 
bar Examination for Sri Lanka administrative Service, Sri 
Lanka accountants' Service and Sri Lanka Planning Service. 
When the application filled online is submitted, the 
candidate will be issued a confirmation number and the 
candidate shall keep it for further inquiries. candidates 
shall be able to get their admission card of the examination 
by way of following the instructions indicated in the web 
page to which the candidate shall have the access once the 
application duly perfected is sent online. the candidate shall 
get a printed copy of the admission card and get his signature 
certified by the respective Head of the Department or a 
deputy officer authorized by the Head for the purpose. the 
admission card certified in this manner shall be submitted 
to the Supervisor of the examination. a copy of admission 
card certified as for that manner shall be submitted to the 
Heads of the departments for the purpose of attaching to the 
personal file of the candidates. 
Note.– the private address, place of work and the 
official address shall be clearly included when 
filling the application online. 
08. Any clarification regarding the process for submitting 
applications can be obtained through the telephone Number 
011 - 5980236 of Sri Lanka institute of development 
administration. communication can be made through this 
line from 8.30 a.m up to 4.15 p.m during working days of 
the week from 02.10.2020 to 16.10.2020.
09. Heads of departments should grant duty leave for 
the officers who possess admissions enabling them to sit 
for the examination. if it is required to get their candidature 
confirmed, it can be done through the Telephone Number                        
011- 5980236. candidates shall not be paid traveling 
expenses for appearing for the examination. 
10. Identity of Candidates.– candidates shall be 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall to 
the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they offer. 
for this purpose, one of the following documents should be 
submitted to the supervisor. 
 (i)  the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of  Persons. 
 (ii)  a valid Passport.
the candidature of those who fail to produce any of 
the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the 
discretion of the director General of Sri Lanka institute of 
development administration. 
11. the examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil and 
English media. if it is found that a candidate has appeared 
for the examination in a language medium that he/she is 
not entitled to, the candidature of such applicant shall be 
cancelled.  a candidate shall not be permitted to change the 
language medium indicated in the application form.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1544
12. Scheme of examination.– Subjects and the syllabus of each Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows. Duration 
of each question paper is three (03  hours). at least forty (40) marks shall be obtained for each subject by a candidate to pass 
this Efficiency Bar Examination.
 12.1  1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service : (Appendix "G" of Sri 
Lanka administrative Service Minute published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 1,842/2 dated 23.12.2013)
 
  The officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall be 
eligible to sit for this examination. 
  The subjects of the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination are given below : 
Serial 
Number
Subject Duration Subject 
Number
01
Law
constitutional  Law  and administrative Law 03 hours 01 -i
the Legal Systems of Sri Lanka 03 hours 01 -ii
criminal Law and Law of Evidence 03 hours 01-iii
02 administration  03 hours 02-i
03 Economics and Social Science 03 hours 03
04 financial management and procurement procedure in the public sector 03 hours 04
12.1.1 Law
  three question papers based on the following: 
  first (i) question paper -
  Constitutional Law and Administrative Law (Subject No. 01-I) (100 marks) 
 (i) the structure of the constitution of Sri Lanka and the Republic constitution of 1978 with the historical 
development.
 (ii) the Executive, President of the Republic, Prime Minister, cabinet of Ministers and Public Service. 
 (iii) administration of Justice. 
 (iv) Judicial control over administration. 
 (v) directive Principles of the State Policy and fundamental duties. 
 (vi) delegated Legislation.
 (vii) Liability of the State and the Public authorities. 
 (viii) fundamental Rights.
  Second (II) question paper -
  The Legal Systems in Sri Lanka (Subject No. 01-II) (100 marks)
 (i)  administration of Justice
 (ii) the Legal History of Sri Lanka 
 (iii)  the Organization of the courts 
 (iv)  the courts Ordinance of Sri Lanka (chapter 6) 
 (v)  administration of Justice act, No. 44 of 1971
  Third (III) question paper -
  Criminal Law and Law of Evidence (Subject No. 01-III) (100 marks)
 (i)  the Penal code 
 (ii)  the Evidence Ordinance. 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1545
  A candidate shall be required to obtain a minimum of thirty five (35%) of marks in each paper and 
an average of forty percent (40%) in order to pass the subject of law. 
12.1.2. administration (Subject No. 02-i -100 marks) 
  a  question paper based on the following: 
 (i)  Office and Field Organization and Methods of organization.
 (ii)  following chapters of the Establishment code
  chapters i, ii, iii, V , Vi, Vii, iX, Xi, XXiii, XXV , XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXiX, XXX, XXXi, 
XXXii, XXXiii, XLVii and XLViii). Procedural Rules of the Public Service commission.
 12.1.3.  Economics and Sociology (Subject No. 03 - 100 marks) 
   this question paper consists of two parts.
   first (1) part - Economics
 (i)  Principles of Economics with special reference to theories of Value, Production and distribution; 
 (ii)  Money, Production and distribution
 (iii)  Economic background of Sri Lanka and policies, strategies and programmes relevant to economic 
development with special reference to the Economic Structure of Sri Lanka. 
  Second (II) part - Sociology
 (i)  Social Structure, Organization and functions; 
 (ii)  Human Relationships and Groupings; 
 (iii)  Kinship, Marriage and the family; 
 (iv)  Rural and Urban Society; 
 (v)  Social Stratification and Differentiations; 
 (vi)  Social control; 
 (vii)  culture, Religion, Morals and Values. 
a candidate shall be required to obtain at least twenty (20) marks for each part to pass the subject 
of Economics and Sociology. 
12.1.4. financial management and procurement procedure in the public sector (Subject No. 04 - 
   100 marks)  
   a  question paper based on the following :-
   (i) financial control in Sri Lanka :
     constitutional Provisions Relating to the Management of Public finance
     Parliamentary control over Public finance  
     Meaning of fund 
     the consolidated fund and its operation 
     Meaning and Methods of appropriation 
     contingencies fund 
     Other funds and their Operation                
     Government Revenue 
     Powers and functions of the Minister of finance 
     Powers and functions of the treasury 
     Warrants and imprest authority 
     auditor General, his Powers and functions 
     committee on Public accounts (cOPa)
     committee on Public Enterprises (cOPE)

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1546
   (ii) Appointment of Accounting Officers, Chief Accounting Officers and Revenue Accounting  
  Officers, their Powers and Functions/accountability and nature of accountability.
   (iii) internal audit 
   (iv) Public Expenditure Planning and Management; 
     Identification of Organizational Objectives and Functions 
     Identification of Public Policies, Goals Targets and work Programmes 
     Planning and appraisal of development Projects and Programmes and  Prioritization of 
      them 
     formulation and finalization of annual Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure.
   (v)  Variations of approved Estimates of Expenditure
     application of Virement Procedure
     Management of Public Sector cadres and Salaries 
     total cost Estimates and Revisions 
     Supplementary Estimates 
   (vi)  Losses and Waivers of government properties 
   (vii)  Miscellaneous accounting Matters 
   (viii)  delegation of functions for financial control 
   (ix)  custody of Public Money and bank accounts Procedure 
   (x)  Government Procurement Process, 
     Government Procurement Manual
     Government Procurement Guidelines
12.2  First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service (Schedule "iii" of Sri 
Lanka Engineering Service Minute, published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1836/6 dated 11.11.2013).
 The Officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall be 
eligible to sit for this examination. 
 Subjects of the First Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows : 
Serial No. Subject Duration Subject Number
01 administration 03 hours 02-ii
02 financial Systems 03 hours 05-i
03 department/Establishment Methodologies Since this examination is conducted by the  
 Head of the institution, particulars in this  
 regard are not published in this notification.
the minimum marks required to pass each subject is 40.
12.2.1  Administration (Subject No. 02-II - 100 marks)
  a  question paper prepared in relation to the functions of Engineering Service based on v olume I of 
the Establishments Code published in 1985 and all the chapters in V olume ii of the Establishments 
code published in 1999 and the Procedural Rules of Public Service commission (subjected to timely 
revisions).

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1547
 12.2.2 Financial systems (Subject No. 05-I - 100 marks)
  a  question paper prepared in relation to the functions of Engineering Service based on all the chapters in 
financial Regulations published in 1992 except chapter iX and X and criteria for National Procurement 
Guidelines (subjected to timely revisions).
12.3  First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Scientific Service (Appendix 4 of Sri Lanka 
Scientific Service Minute, published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 1877/27 dated 28.08.2014) and 
 First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Architects' Service (Appendix 4 of Sri Lanka 
architects' Service Minute, published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 1877/28 dated 28.08.2014).
 Subjects of these examinations are as follows :
Subject Duration Subject Number
financial Systems 03 hours 05-ii
administration 03 hours 02-iii
departmental Regulations Since this examination is conducted by the  
 Head of the institution, particulars in this  
 regard are not published in this notification.
 12.3.1 Financial Systems (Subject No. 05-II - 100 marks)
  a  question paper based on the following : 
   (i) financial control in Sri Lanka :
     constitutional Provisions Relating to Public financial Management 
     Parliamentary control over Public finance  
     Definition of Fund 
     consolidated fund and its function
     Object and Methodologies of appropriation 
     contingent fund 
     Other funds and their functions                
     State Revenue
     Powers and role of the finance Minister
     Powers and role of the General treasury
     Warrants and imprest authority 
     Powers and role of the auditor General 
     committee on Public accounts (cOPa)
     committee on Public Enterprises (cOPE)
 (ii) Appointment of Accounting Officer, Chief Accounting Officers on State Revenue Accounting 
Officers, their powers and role/accountability and the nature of their responsibilities.
 (iii) internal audit 
   (iv) Planning and Management of Public Expenditure : 
     Identification of Organizational Objectives and Functions 
     Identification of Public Policies, objectives, Targets and Programmes
     Planning of development Projects and Programmes and Prioritizing the evaluation
     Preparation of annual estimate on income and expenditure and taking final decisions. 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1548
   (v)  Making changes of approved Estimates :
     implementation of Virement Procedure
     Management of cadre and salaries of public sector
     total cost Estimates and making Revisions to the same 
     Supplementary Estimates 
   (vi)  Losses and omissions of state properties
   (vii)  Various accounting activities
   (viii)  Entrusting tasks for financial Management 
   (ix)  custody of Public finance and Procedure of bank accounts
   (x)  Government Procurement Process, 
     code of Procurement Procedure Government
     Procurement Guidelines of the Government
   Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject.
 12.3.2 Administration (Subject No. 02-III - 100 marks)
  a  question paper is based on the following :
 (i) following chapters of the Establishment code
  chapters i, ii, iii, V , Vi, Vii, iX, Xi, XXiii, XXV , XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXiX, XXX, 
XXXi, XXXii, XXXiii, XLVii and XLViii. 
 (ii) Procedural Rules of Public Service commission published in the Gazette extraordinary             
No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009.
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject. 
12.4 First Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers of Sri Lanka Accountants' Service : (The appendix 03 
of the Service Minute of Sri Lanka accountants' Service published on the Gazette extraordinary dated 
10.09.2010 and No. 1670/33)
  The officers in Sri Lanka Accountants' Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall be 
eligible to sit for this examination. 
 
 Subjects of the First Efficiency bar Examination are as follows : 
Serial No. Subject Duration (Hours) Subject No.
01 Government financial Procedures 03 Hours 06
02 Law and Management 03 Hours 07
03 administration 03 Hours 02-iV
04 Report writing and Presenting information to Management 03 Hours 08
 12.4.1 Government financial Regulations (Subject No. 06) (100 marks) :
  candidates will be tested on the application of financial Regulations and treasury circulars in 
government transactions, financial regulations/procedures as they relate to revenue, expenditure, 
foreign aid, annual and supplementary estimates, public debt, supplies, tenders, imprests and 
advances, financial sanctions, the account of the Island, functional and economic classifications, 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1549
programme and performance budgeting, functions of the Minister of finance. the General treasury, 
the Ministry of Planning, the Secretaries, the auditor General and the Public accounts committee. 
 12.4.2 Law and Management (Subject No. 07) (100 Marks)
Law - Definition of Law
  Legal Systems of Sri Lanka
  courts Systems of Sri Lanka
  Law of contract
  Law of agency
  Sale of goods
  Hire purchase
  Negotiable instruments
  Guarantee of Securities
  insurance
Management - introduction to Management
  functions and skills of Managers
  Planning process and setting organizational levels
  Organization Structure 
  Human resource Management
  Peformance evaluation 
  Promotion
  Motivation
  Leadership
  communication
  decision Making
  Conflict resolution
  Change Management Conflicts Management Time Management
  Quality circles and Production and Result
  Management ethics and responsibilities
 12.4.3 administration : (Subject No. : 02-iV) (100 marks) 
  chapters of the Establishments code Vii, iX, Xi, Xii, XV , XXiii, XXV , XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, 
XXiX, XXX, XXXi, XXXii, XXXiii, XLVii, XLViii and
  Public Service commission rules and procedure V olume i-Vi.
 12.4.4 Report writing and presenting information to the Management (Subject No. 08) (100 marks) :
  importance of accuracy, of timeliness and of perfection of management information, dealing
  with reference information
  Periodic and ad-hoc reports
  Writing minutes of meetings and notes
  Structure of management reports
  important results that should be highlighted 
  interpretation of results
  Suggesting variations
  Use of statistical name systems in data analysis
  comparison of performance
  Use of ratios and percentages in management reports
  diagrammatic representation
  Listening to professional talks and lectures
  Reporting lectures through speech

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1550
  Panel discussions
  Seminar abilities
  delivering a speech
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the each subject to pass. 
12.5 First Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service : (the appendix  c Service 
Minute of the Sri Lanka Planning Service published on the Gazette extraordinary dated 10.09.2010 and 
No. 1670/32).
  The officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall be 
eligible to sit for this examination. 
 Subjects of the First Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows : 
Serial No. Subject Duration (Hours) Subject No.
01 Planning concepts, Methodology and Planning institutions 03 09
02 Economic analysis and statistics 03 10
03 Project Planning, implementation Monitoring and Evaluation 03 11
04 institutional Regulations and Public Sector financial Methods 03 12
05 English Language 03 13
 12.5.1 the examination should be passed within the prescribed time period as per the provisions in the 
Service Minute and the Letter of Appointment and an officer is allowed to appear for all the papers 
at one sitting or different sittings for each subject. 
Scheme of examination : 
 12.5.2 Planning concepts, methodology and Planning Institutions (Subject No. - 09) (100 marks)
 (i) National objectives and priorities and planning policy framework and programmes for their 
achievement. 
 (ii) Methodology for National Planning, Major problem areas in planning, public participation 
and mobilization of resources etc.
 (iii) Nature and sources of data for National Planning, collection of data, presentation of 
interpretation and analysis, field supervision and investigations demographic concepts, 
economic projections and policy analysis. 
 12.5.3 Economic Analysis and Statistics (Subject No. 10) (100 marks)
 (i) Principles of economics with special emphasis on the theories of production and distribution. 
 (ii) finance, banking Systems, international financial Methods and trade.
 (iii) analysis of monetary, Monetary trade and tariff Policies.
 (iv) Economic structure of Sri Lanka.
 (v) Review of the Economy.
 (vi) assessment of technically skilled and unskilled manpower and other resources including 
foreign aid and their utilization. 
 (vii) Economics and Social incidents.
 (viii) Economic analysis and basis statistical concepts and methods used in Planning.
 (ix) Principles of Benefit/Cost Analysis.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1551
 12.5.4 Project Planning, Implementation, Supervision and monitoring (Subject No. 11) (100 marks)
 (i) Planning, Identification and defining Projects and Project Planning Policies, theories, selection 
of location, Estimation of technology and cost and benefits, Technical, financial and economic 
analysis.
 (ii) Project implementation and operation/supervision, proper and timely implementation of 
projects and programmes, preparation of detailed operational plans and implementation 
schedules, coordination of monitoring and progress control and follow up action. 
 (iii) Evaluation of projects, assessment of effectiveness of projects and programmes analysis of 
benefits in relation to costs. 
 12.5.5 Institution Regulations and financial methods of the Public Sector (Subject No. 12)  
(100 marks)
 (i) Government financial Regulations, V olume 1 (except chapter X)
 (ii) chapters Vii, iX, Xi, Xii, XV, XXiii, XXV, XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXiX, XXX, XXXi, 
XXXii, XXXiii, XLVii, XLViii and chapters i to Vi of the Public Service commission 
procedure and rules. 
 (iii) Financial Control of Sri Lanka.– Statutory Provisions relating to Public finance Management, 
Parliamentary control over Public finance, consolidated fund and its operation, aim of 
appropriation and appropriation Methods, State revenue, powers and function of Minister 
of finance, powers and the function of the treasury, Warrant and imprest authority, auditor 
General, his powers and function, Public Expenditure committee, Public Enterprises 
committee. 
 (iv) Appointment of Accounting Officers, Chief Accounting Officers and Accounting officers of 
State Revenue their powers and function. 
 (v) Planning and Management of State Expenditure, Identification of Objectives and Functions of 
Organizations, Preparation of Annual Estimates and Expenditure and taking final decisions, 
Effecting changes in the approved Estimates of Expenditure, implementation of Virement 
Procedure, Management of cadres in the Public Sector, Supplementary Estimates. 
 (vi) Government Procurement Procedure.- Procuring Goods, Services and Work, composition of 
tender boards and technical Evaluation committees, Powers and function of appointment, 
tender Evaluation Procedure, Management of foreign funded projects. 
 12.5.6 English Language (Subject No. 13) (100 marks)
 (i) a  written examination in English Language will be held to test the academic and professional 
knowledge of English of candidates in relation to subject of Planning, development and 
Management. 
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the each subject.
 12.6 Second Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service : (Appendix 
"h" of the Service Minute of Sri Lanka administrative Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary                          
No. 1842/2 dated 23.12.2013)
  The officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall be 
eligible to sit for this examination. 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1552
  the subjects for this examination are as follows :
Serial No. Subject Duration Subject No.
01 Economic and Social Policy (With special reference to Sri 
Lanka)
03 hours 14
02 Process of development administration (With special 
reference to Sri Lanka)
03 hours 15
03 Use of information and communication technology for 
management
03 hours 16
04 Proficiency in the link language (English) 03 hours 17
 12.6.1 Economic and social policies (With special reference to Sri Lanka) (Subject No. 14) (100 marks)
  this question paper is based on matters affecting the formulation of economic and social policies 
using principles of Economics and Social Sciences in the context of recent economic, social and 
political history of Sri Lanka.
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject. 
 12.6.2 Process of Development Administration (With special reference to Sri Lanka) (Subject No. 15) 
(100 marks)
  this question paper is based on the functioning and inter-relationships of institutions entrusted with 
the responsibility of development administration with special reference to matters mentioned below:
 (i) State machinery of Sri Lanka,
 (ii) constitutional background of the state machinery of Sri Lanka,
 (iii) Provincial councils and Local Government institutions,
 (iv) People's Organizations,
 (v) Public corporations.
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject. 
 12.6.3 use of information and communication technology for management (Subject No. 16) (100 marks)
  this is a practical test conducted by the Sri Lanka institute of development administration to test 
the knowledge of the applicant on following subject areas. 
 (i) importance of the use of information and communication technology for state institutes,
 (ii) data analysis and preparation of reports,
 (iii) data base management and retrieval of information,
 (iv) Use of information and communication technology in project management,
 (v) Preparation of management information systems.
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject. 
 12.6.4 Proficiency in the English Language (Subject No. 17) (100 marks)
  Scheme of Evaluation : Written Examination 
  content : the following subject areas are suggested for the candidate's reference :
  communication Skills 
  the candidate should possess the ability to function effectively in the following language 
functions :

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1553
  – General Greetings and introductions
  – Giving and getting information
  – advising, suggesting and expressing opinions
  – describing Events and Situations
  – telephone Skills
  – interviewing Skills
  – Expression Skills
  – Listening and Note taking Skills
  Writing Skills
  the knowledge of the modern formats and styles of writing is tested in this area of study. 
  – internal Modes of communication
  – formal correspondence Skills
  – Writing descriptions/Explanations
  – Grammar
  – Summary Writing Skills
  – Report Writing Skills
  – Meeting Minutes/agendas/invitations
  comprehension Skills
  candidate's ability to comprehend a printed text, infer meaning and verbal/written interpretation 
is expected.
  – Reading and understanding the specific and general meaning of a printed text
  – Reading and interpretation (verbal/written)
  – Understanding the cohesion and coherence of a passage.
  
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject. 
 12.7 Second Efficiency Bar examination for officers in Sri Lanka Accountants' Service : 
  (appendix 04 of the Service Minute of Sri Lanka accountants' Service published in the Gazette 
extraordinary No. 1670/33 dated 10.09.2010)
  The officers in Sri Lanka Accountants' Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall be 
eligible to sit for this examination. 
  The subjects for the second efficiency bar examination are as follows : 
Serial No. Subject Duration Subject No.
01 Management accountancy 03 hours 18
02 Public financial Management 03 hours 19
03 Management and organization 03 hours 20
 12.7.1 Management accountancy (Subject No. 18) Question paper - duration 03 hours (100 marks)
  candidates are not allowed to select questions on their preference. 
  control theory on accounting - feedback - open and closed. types of ideal standard costs, 
principles of performance standards and their application, revision of standards, learning circles 
and determination of motivation, analysis of variations and sub variations, analysis of significance, 
presentation and investigation of variances, behavioral aspects of control accounting, concepts 
of budgeting, administration of budgetary control, the budget manual, fixed and flexible budgets, 
master and supplementary budgets, budget centers, management participation, intervention and 

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1554
motivation in the preparation of budgets, the budget period and identification of the principal budget 
factor. 
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject. 
 12.7.2 Public financial Management (Subject No. 19) Question paper - duration 03 hours (100 marks)
  candidates are not allowed to select questions on their preference. 
  Role of the Government accountant.
  Knowledge of Constitutional and Legal Framework of public finance Institutional framework, 
central Government, Public corporations, Local Government institutions, co-operative Movements 
etc.
  Parliamentary control, functions of the treasury, Ministry of Planning, Estimates committee, 
auditor General, Public accounts committee, consolidated fund, Problems of Parliamentary 
control. 
  financial circle, Preparation of Planning programmes, Preparations of budget, approval of funds, 
accounting, reporting, monitoring and auditing. 
  Project evaluation, Service prices and use of statistical data, payment theory and deciding on the 
anticipated value. 
  Cost benefit analysis, discounted cash flow, internal effective ratio, project ranking, economic, 
financial and management aspects of project formulation and evaluation, successful submission of 
projects. 
  t echniques of programming, use of network analysis, allocation of resources, problems of 
transport, deterioration of resources due to usage or with the passage of time, replacement of 
resources which do not deteriorate but become useless due to partial usage or due to passage of 
time, performance budgets, Establishment and use of basic methods, Measurement of performance, 
types of measurements, selection of units and measurements, types of measurements and analysis 
of performance. 
  Programme budgeting, programme structure, classifications according to functions, programme 
work, expenditure projects and expenditure items, economics and activity related classification. 
  Financial control systems, level of responsibilities, internal control and financial regulations, internal 
audit, performance auditing, management auditing, variance analysis, decisions on providing 
capital budgets, long term planning and it's importance, forecasting, risk analysis of accuracy and 
limitations, decision trees, probability factors. 
  demand on capital, issues in estimating earnings and effectiveness of capital investments identify 
and allocate for risk factors when prioritize and standardize projects. Pay back determinants, 
calculating of accounting rate of return, net present value and DCF yields, influence of taxation and 
incentives, investment appraisal, Project cost control and post audit. 
  decisions on capacities, product mix, make or buy, alternative methods of manufacture, shut down 
problems, pricing policies and contribution theory, influence of customer demand, patterns, elasticity 
of demand, marketing strategy, techniques of evaluation of performance, profitability criteria and 
ratios. 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1555
  analysis of return on capital, management of working capital. 
  financial control of Government commercial Enterprises, budgeting, Management reporting, 
Interpretation of financial statements and the use of financial ratios. 
  Pricing in Public Enterprises : 
  accounting plan and its contents, government reports and public undertakings. 
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject. 
 12.7.3 Management and Organization (Subject No. 20) Question paper - duration 03 hours (100 marks)
  candidates are not allowed to select questions on their preference. 
  Questions will be set to test the knowledge of the candidate on management and principles of 
organization, use of these principles with regard to the problems and issues in the public sector and 
the knowledge on new management strategies and techniques. 
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject. 
 12.8 Second  Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service : 
  (appendix "d" of the Service Minute of Sri Lanka Planning Service published in the Gazette extraordinary 
No. 1670/32 dated 10.09.2010)
  The officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall be 
eligible to sit for this examination. 
 12.8.1 The second efficiency bar examination shall consist of the following subjects. 
Serial No. Subject Duration Subject No.
01 techniques of development Planning 03 hours 21
02 basic Macro Economics 03 hours 22
03 current international Economic and Political crises and 
their impact on the Sri Lankan Economy
03 hours 23
 12.8.2 it is compulsory to answer all the questions in a question paper. 
  Syllabus :
 i. development Planning techniques (Subject No. 21) (100 marks)
 (i) SWOt analysis
 (ii) Problem tree
 (iii) Logical framework analysis
 (iv) Cost benefit analysis
 (v) Pay back method
 (vi) Net present value
 (vii) internal rate of return
 (viii) application of shadow price. 
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject. 

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1556
 ii. basic Macro Economics (Subject No. 22) (100 marks)
 (i) National accounts
 (ii) Rate of Economic Growth
 (iii) balanced National Revenue
 (iv) Multiplier effect
 (v) Inflation
 (vi) Rate of interest
 (vii) an introduction to Public fiscal Policy
 (viii) an introduction to fiscal Policy
 (ix) business circle
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject.
 iii. current international Economic crises and their impact on Sri Lankan Economy (Subject No. 23) 
(100 marks) 
  current international Economic crises and their impact on Sri Lankan Economy.
  (answers have to be given on topics which have a timely relevance to emerging world economic 
conditions)
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject.
13. the time table of this examination is as follows : 
 
SR. 
No.
Name of the examination Subject Subject 
No.
Date Time
01
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for 
Officers of Sri Lanka 
administrative Service
constitutional Law and 
administrative Law
01-i 24.10.2020 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
Legal Systems of Sri Lanka 01-ii 24.10.2020 12.45 p. m. -3.45 p. m.
criminal Law and Evidence Law 01-iii 25.10.2020 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
administration 02-i 25.10.2020 12.45 p. m. - 3.45 p. m. 
Economics and Sociology 03 31.10.2020 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
financial management in the public 
sector and procurement process 
04 31.10.2020 12.45 p. m. - 3.45 p. m. 
02
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Officers 
of Sri Lanka Engineering 
Service
financial Systems 05-i 01.11.2020 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
administration 02-ii 01.11.2020 12.45 p. m. - 3.45 p. m. 
03
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Officers 
of Sri Lanka Scientific 
Service
financial Systems 05-ii 08.11.2020 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
administration 02-iii 08.11.2020 12.45 p. m. - 3.45 p. m. 
04
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Officers 
of Sri Lanka architects' 
Service
financial Systems 05-ii 08.11.2020 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
administration 02-iii 08.11.2020 12.45 p. m. - 3.45 p. m. 
05
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for 
Officers of Sri Lanka 
accountants’ Service
Government financial Regulations 06 24.10.2020 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
Law and Management 07 24.10.2020 12.45 p. m. - 3.45 p. m. 
administration 02-iV 25.10.2020 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
Report writing and Presenting 
information to Management
08 25.10.2020 12.45 p. m. - 3.45 p. m. 

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1557
SR. 
No.
Name of the examination Subject Subject 
No.
Date Time
06
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Officers 
of Sri Lanka Planning 
Service
Planning concepts, Methodology and 
Planning institutions
09 24.10.2020 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
Economic analysis and statistics 10 31.10.2020 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
Project Planning, implementation 
Monitoring and Evaluation
11 31.10.2020 12.45 p. m. - 3.45 p. m. 
institutional Regulations and Public 
Sector financial Methods
12 07.11.2020 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
English Language 13 07.11.2020 12.45 p. m. - 3.45 p. m. 
07
2nd Efficiency Bar 
Examination for 
Officers of Sri Lanka 
administrative Service
Economic and Social Policy (With 
special reference to Sri Lanka)
14 07.11.2020 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
Process of development 
administration (With special 
reference to Sri Lanka)
15 08.11.2020 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
Use of information and 
communication technology for 
Management
16 date of the practical test to be held 
by shall be informed by the director 
General of Sri Lanka institute of 
development administration after 
the closing date of applications
Proficiency in the Link Language 
(English)
17 08.11.2020 12.45 p. m. - 3.45 p. m
08
2nd Efficiency Bar 
Examination for 
Officers of Sri Lanka 
accountants’ Service
Management accountancy 18 01.11.2020 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
Public financial Management 19 01.11.2020 12.45 p. m. - 3.45 p. m
Management and Organization 20 07.11.2020 12.45 p. m. - 3.45 p. m
09
2nd Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Officers 
of Sri Lanka Planning 
Service
techniques of development Planning 21 24.10.2020 12.45 p. m. - 3.45 p. m.
basic Macro Economics 22 08.11.2020 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
current international Economic and 
Political crises and their impact on 
Sri Lankan Economy
23 08.11.2020 12.45 p. m. - 3.45 p. m. 
  
14.  14.1  Exemptions from the requirement of passing the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examination and Second 
Language test shall be made in the following manner. 
examination Subject Qualifications required to be exempted
1st Efficiency Bar Examination 
for officers in Sri Lanka 
administrative Service
Law Shall be a barrister or a lawyer at the supreme court 
of Sri Lanka. Shall have obtained a degree in Law 
from a University recognized by the University 
Grants commission. 
Note 1.– The exemption for Sociology or Economics in the First Efficiency Bar shall be made applicable to 
the officers of Sri Lanka Administrative Service recruited from 01.07.2012 to 23.12.2013 under the Service 
Minute No. 1419/3 dated 14.11.2005.
 14.2  Even though as per the interim provisions 1.5 (b) of Sri Lanka Administrative Service Minute, the officers 
were required to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination under the provisions of previous service minutes 
before the effective date of (01.07.2012) of the above Service Minute, the officers who are unable to pass 
the same as at 31.12.2014 should complete the Efficiency Bar Examination by passing the subjects of the 

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1558
Efficiency Bar Examinations held under the existing service minute which are conforming to the subjects 
of each Efficiency Bar Examinations as per the existed service minute. Corresponding subjects are given in 
the following table :
Service Minute No. 1419/3 dated 14.11.2005 New Service Minute No. 1842/2 dated 23.12.2013
01. Law
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
Law 
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
02. administration
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
administration
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
03. Economics or Sociology
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
Economics and Sociology
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
04. Public Sector financial Management
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
Public Sector financial Management and 
Procurement  Process
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
05. English
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
Link (English) Language Proficiency
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
06. Economic and Social Policy
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
Economic and Social Policy
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
07. development administration Process
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
development administration Process
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
08. Management and Organization Methods
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
Use of information and communication 
technology for Management
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
 15. Issuance of results.– the results of all the candidates who have applied/sat for this examination shall be 
published in the web site of the Ministry Public Services, Provincial councils and Local Government. Publishing of the 
results in the website of the Ministry shall be considered as an issuance of results to the candidates, according to the circular 
Number SP/Sb/1/13 and dated 13.10.2009 of Secretary to H. E. the President on the e-documents and e-communication. 
accordingly, Heads of departments shall include the relevant copies of the results sheets of the examination published in the 
website of the Ministry to the personal files of the officers. It is not allowed to re-scrutinize the results of the examination. 
16. any matter not referred to herein will be decided by Secretary to the Ministry of Public Services, Provincial councils 
and Local Government. 
17. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this notification, the Sinhala text 
shall prevail. 
 J. J. 
ratHnaSiri,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Public Services, Provincial councils and 
 Local Government. 
Ministry of Public Services, Provincial councils and Local Government, 
independence Square,
colombo 07,
16th of September, 2020.
10–76

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1559
DEPARTmENT Of ANImAL PRODuCTION AND hEALTh
First Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers In Sri Lanka Animal Production and 
Health Service -2017(2020)
It is hereby notified that the First Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in the Sri Lanka Animal Production & Health 
Service is expected to commence in December, 2020 and to be held in Kandy. Applications are called from the officers who 
were in the Sri Lanka animal Production and Health Service as at 25th September 2020.  
 
2. Time tables will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for both Efficiency Bar Examinations at the same time. 
3. Syllabus : The Syllabus and rules and regulations relevant to efficiency bar examinations l are stated in the new 
service minute. Officers can sit for all subjects in one attempt or several attempts.
4. The prescribed Subjects for the efficiency bar examination I are given below.
Subject Duration Aggregate marks Pass marks
1. financial Systems 02 hours 100 40
2. administration 02 hours 100 40
3. departmental Regulations 1 02 hours 100 40
4. departmental Regulations 2 03 hours 100 40
5. Syllabus for the examination :
Subject Syllabus
1. financial Systems the financial Regulations of the Government of Sri Lanka (Except chapter X)
2. administration (a) Office Systems, Office Management and knowledge on office organization;
(b) Procedural rules of the Public Service commission chapters from i - XXii & 
Establishment code chapters
(c) Vi, Vii, Viii, iX, Xii, Xiii, XiV , XV , XVi, XVii, XViii, XiX, XXiii, XXV , 
XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXX, XX, Xi, XXXii, XXXiii, XLVii,XLViii
3. dept. Regulations 
Paper 1
animal act, the animal disease act and related regulations, departmental Orders and 
circulars relevant to Veterinary Surgeon’s Services.
dept. Regulations 
Paper II
(a)   Dissemination of specimens, Laboratory identification including post - mortem 
examination. Pregnancies diagnosis, vaccines for contagious and infectious 
disease, serological test.
(b) Techniques and practices of artificial inseminations, principles relevant to 
breeding and rearing of calves, hatching and rearing of chicks by incubation, 
animal nutrition food rationing usage, pasture fodder cultivation, preparation of 
silages and Livestock Management.
(c) Milk production, bottling and transportation of pasteurized milk, bacteria and fat 
in milk, separation of cream and processing of butter, ghee and curd.
(d) Slaughtering of animal in abattoirs, identification of meat including testing.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1560
6. this Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, tamil 
and English only at Examination centers established in 
Kandy. Permission will not be given to change the medium 
applied by the candidate later.
7. the application should be in the form of the specimen 
appended to the notification and should be prepared on A4 
size paper using both sides of it. it should be noted that the 
cages 01 to 06 should appear on page i of the paper and the 
rest on the other side of the paper. the application should 
be filled by the candidate. The applications which are not 
prepared as per the specimen form and the incomplete 
applications forms will be rejected without informing the 
candidate. the candidate is advised to keep a Photostat 
copy of the application for his use. further the candidate 
should check the applications prepared by himself with 
the specimen application appeared in the notice. the name 
of the examination should be written in English too in the 
applications prepared in Sinhala or tamil Medium.
8. the Examination will be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations and candidates are 
bound to abide by rules and regulations enacted by him. if a 
candidate violates any of the rules is liable to punishment at 
the discretion of the commissioner General of Examination.
9. applications should be forwarded through the 
Head of department/institute by registered Post to reach the 
director General of animal Production and Health, to the 
address given below on or before 23
rd October 2020. the 
applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
the director General of animal Production and Health, 
department of animal Production and Health,
P.O. box 13,
Peradeniya.
10. the applicants those who have forwarded the 
accurately completed application including their language 
medium in which they wish to appear at the examination, 
applicant’s signature and certification of Departmental 
Head, and the receipt when it is prescribed to pay the fee 
before or on the date of receiving applications indicated in 
the notice, will be issued the admissions by the commissioner 
General of Examinations. as soon as the admission cards 
are issued to the candidates a notice will be published in 
papers as well as in the official website of the Department. If 
the admission card is not received 2-3 days after the 
publication of the notic e, it should be informed to the 
department of Examinations as stated in the notice. there, 
the candidates are informed to indicate candidate’s full 
name, address, National identity card Number and the 
Examination applied for.the candidates who reside outside 
colombo should make the inquiry to the fax number given 
in this notice stating his/her fax number in the request to 
obtain a copy of the admission card .it is useful to keep 
certified Photostat copies of the application and receipt of 
the payment and receipt of the registration in your possession.
11. the claims submitted later by the candidates who 
have failed to fulfill the requirements as stated in the above 
paragraph 10 will not be considered.
12. candidates should prove their identity in the 
examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor at 
every subject they appear for. any of the below mentioned 
documents will be accepted to prove identity.
 i. National identity card,
 ii. Valid Pass Port,
 iii. Valid driving License of Sri Lanka.
candidates should enter into the examination hall without 
covering face and ears in order to prove their identity and 
those who refuse to do so will not be allowed to enter into 
the hall. further, the candidate should be in the hall without 
covering face and ears until he/she leave the hall so as to 
help supervisors to identify the candidate.
13. fees will be levied from the candidates who sit for 
the examination on the following basis.
(a) No fees will be levied from candidates who sit for 
this examination for the first time.
(b) for each subsequent sitting
 for whole examination : Rs. 1200.00
 Single subject  : Rs. 600.00
  
candidates who have already sat for this examination or 
the ones those who have applied previously, are required 
to pay the relevant fees as indicated above. the above 
examination fees should be paid to any post office/sub 
post office or Divisional/District Secretariat situated in the 
island to be credited to Revenue Head No. 20-03-02-13 of 
the commissioner General of Examination and the receipt 
of it should be affixed to the edge of the relevant cage in 
the application. further it may be useful to keep a Photostat 
copy of it.
14. issuing of an admission card to a candidate will not 
be considered that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to 
sit for the examination.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1561
15. if Sinhala /tamil or English language versions of the Gazette notification are comparative the Sinhala versions 
will be accepted.
  
 dr. R. HettiaracHcHi,
 director General of animal Production & Health.
11th September, 2020.
StatE MiNiStRy Of LiVEStOcK, faRM PROMOtiON aNd daiRy & EGG RELatEd iNdUStRy
FirSt eFFiciency Bar examination For tHe oFFicerS in Sri Lanka animaL Production 
and HeaLtH Service -2017(2020)
 
(the name of the examination should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope.)
Language medium of examination Sinhala  - 2  
 tamil  - 3  
 English  - 4
 (Give the relevant number in the box)
01.  (i)  full name (in block letters) :––––––––––––––.
   (Ex: HERatH MUdiyaNSELaGE SaMaN KUMaRa GUNaWaRdHaNE)
  (ii)  Last name with initials (in block letters) :––––––––––––––. 
   (Ex: GUNaWaRdHaNE H.M.S.K.)
  (iii)  full name (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––––.
02. Postal address (for dispatch of admission card) :––––––––––––––.
 (in block letters) 
03. Male / female :
 female   -     1
 Male      -      0
 (write the appropriate number in the cage)
04. Nic number :
05. Mobile No. :
06. Subjects selected with the number as indicated in the paragraph 04 of the notification (Should be written clearly) :
 
Subject No. Subject
07. State whether you have sit for whole or a part of this examination. if so state the subjects, year and month :–––––––––––.
08. date of birth :           year :                         Month :                    date : 
09. Name of the designation :–––––––––––.
 (in block letters)
 Name of the department :–––––––––––.
 (in block letters)

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1562
10. the date on which the appointment  was made to the Sri Lanka animal Production and Health Service :–––––––––––.
i declare that the above particulars are correct and that i am entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium 
indicated above. further i am prepared to abide the conditions enacted by the commissioner General of Examinations with 
regard to the conduct of the examination.
Examination fee Rs. :–––––––––––.
Paying Office :–––––––––––.
Receipt No. :–––––––––––.
To affix the receipt (keep a Photostat copy of the receipt) 
 –––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of candidate.
date :–––––––––––.
commissioner General of Examinations,
through director General, department of animal Production and Health,
forwarded :–
i certify that the candidate whose particulars appear above is eligible to sit for the examination and that he/ she has 
qualifications to sit for the examination in the medium stated  in the application.
* I also certify that the receipt, paying the prescribed examination fee, has been duly affixed by the candidate. 
i attest the candidate's signature.
 ––––––––––––––,   
 Signature of Head of department and designation. 
 (Place the rubber stamp)
date :–––––––––––.
(*May be deleted, fee not been paid)
10–160/1
––––––––––––––––––––––
DEPARTmENT Of ANImAL PRODuCTION AND hEALTh 
Second Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers in Sri Lanka Animal Production and 
Health Service -2017(2020)
it is hereby notified that the Second Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health 
Service is expected to Commence in December, 2020 and to be held in Kandy. Applications are called from the officers who 
were in the Sri Lanka animal Production and Health Service as at 25th September, 2020.
02. Time tables will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations at the same time.
03. The Syllabus and rules and regulations relevant to efficiency bar examinations II are stated in the service minute.
Officers can sit for all subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examination in one attempt or several attempts.

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1563
04. The prescribed subjects of the efficiency bar examination II for the officers in this service are given below.
Examination Detail :
 Paper Subject No. Duration hours Aggregate Pass Marks
Part 01 01 03 100 40
or
Part 02 02 03 100 40
and
Part 03   02 papers should be answered from part 03
Paper 01 03 03 100 40
Paper 02 04 03 100 40
Paper 03 05 03 100 40
Paper 04 06 03 100 40
Paper 05 07 03 100 40
Paper 06 08 03 100 40
Paper 07 09 03 100 40
Paper 08 10 03 100 40
Paper 09 11 03 100 40
Paper 10 12 03 100 40
Paper 11 13 03 100 40
05. Syllabus for the examination :
 Paper Subject No. Syllabus
Part 01 01 Sections 2:1, 2:2, 4:1, 4:2, 5:2, 5:8, 6:5, 7:2:1, 8:2, 8:2:2, 8:2:3, 8:3:1, 9:2,  
  9:4, 9:6, 9:7 of the Syllabus.
Part 02 02 Sections 1:1:1, 1:1:4, 1:2:1, 3:2, 3:1:1, 3:1:2, 3:2:1, 10:1:1, 10:1:2, 10:1:3,  
  10:1:4, 10:1:6, 10:2:1, 10:2:8, 10:4:1 of the Syllabus
Paper Subject No.    Syllabus 
Part 3
Paper 01 03 Epidemiology
Paper 02 04 Livestock Economics
Paper 03 05 Veterinary Public Health
Paper 04 06 agriculture Extension 
Paper 05 07 Genetics and breeding
Paper 06 08 animal Physiology and reproduction 
Paper 07 09 Housing for animals and Management
Paper 08 10 animal Nutrition
Paper 09 11 Pasture and fodder
Paper 10 12 applied Vet. Microbiology and immunology
Paper 11 13 applied Medicine, Pathology and Parasitology

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1564
Note.– The candidates who sit for 2nd Efficiency Bar 
Examination should select either part 01 or 02 and 
two question papers from the above Xi papers in Part 
03. Candidates should obtain at least 40% marks for 
each paper. 
06. this Examination will be conducted in Sinhala,tamil 
and English. Only at Examination centers established in 
Kandy. Permission will not be given to change the medium 
applied by the candidate later.
07. the application should be in the form of the specimen 
appended to the notification and should be prepared on A4 
size paper using both sides of it.it should be noted that the 
cages 01 to 06 should appear on page 1 of the paper and 
the balance on the other side of the paper.the application 
should be filled by the candidate. The candidate is advised to 
keep a Photostat copy of the application for his use. further 
the candidate should check the applications prepared by 
himself with the specimen application appeared in the 
notice. the applications which are not prepared as per the 
specimen form and the incomplete applications forms will 
be rejected without informing the candidate. the name of 
the  examination should be wrriten in English too in the 
applications prepared in Sinhala or tamil Medium.
08. the Examination will  be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations and candidates are 
bound to abide by rules and regulations enacted by him. if a 
candidate violates any of the rules is liable to punishment at the 
discretion of the commissioner General of Examination.
09. applications should be forwarded through the Head 
of department/i nstitute by registered Post to reach the 
director General of animal Production and Health, to the 
address given below on or before 23
rd October 2020. the 
applications received after the closing date will be 
rejected. 
 
the director General of animal Production and Health,
department of animal Production and Health,
P.O.box 13,
Getambe,
Peradeniya.
10. the applicants those who have forwarded the 
accurately completed application including their language  
medium in which they wish to appear at the examination, 
applicant’s signature and certification of Departmental  
Head, and the receipt when it is prescribed to pay the fee 
before or on the date of receiving applications indicated in the 
notice, will be issued the admissions by the commissioner 
General of Examinations. a paper notice will be published 
by the department of Examinations as soon as the admission 
cards are issued to the candidates. if the admission card is 
not received 2-3 days after the publication of the notice, it 
should be informed to the department of Examinations as 
stated in the notice. there, the candidates are informed to 
indicate candidate’s full name, address, National identity 
card Number and the Examination applied for.the candidates 
who reside outside colombo should make the inquiry to the 
fax number given in this notice stating his/her fax number 
in the request to obtain a copy of the admission card .it is 
useful to keep certified Photostat copies of the application 
and receipt of the payment and receipt of the registration in 
your possession.
11. the claims submitted later by the candidates who 
have failed to fulfill the requirements as stated in the above 
paragraph 10 will not be considered.
12. candidates should prove their identity in the 
examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor at 
every subject they appear for.any of the below mentioned 
documents will be accepted to prove identity.
 i. National identity card
 ii. Valid Pass Port
 iii. Valid driving License of Sri Lanka
candidates should enter into the examination hall without 
covering face and ears in order to prove their identity and 
those who refuse to do so will not be allowed to enter into 
the hall. further, the candidate should be in the hall without 
covering face and ears until he/she leave the hall so as to 
help supervisors to identify the candidate.
13. fees will be levied from the candidates who sit for the 
examination on the following basis.
 (a) No fees will be levied from candidates who sit for 
this examination for the first time
 (b) for each subsequent sitting
   for whole examination Rs. 1200.00 
   single subject  Rs. 600.00
candidates who have already sat for this examination or 
the ones those who have applied previously, are required 
to pay the relevant fees as indicated above. the above 
examination fees should be paid to any post office/sub 
post office or Divisional/District Secretariat situated in the 
island to be credited to Revenue Head No. 20-03-02-13 of 
the commissioner General of Examination and the receipt 
of it should be affixed to the edge of the relevant cage in 
the application. further it may be useful to keep a Photostat 
copy of it.

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1565
14. Issuing of an admission card to a candidate will not be considered that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to 
sit for the examination.  
15. if Sinhala /tamil or English language versions of the Gazette notification are comparative the Sinhala versions 
will be accepted.
 dr. R. HettiaracHcHi,
 director General of animal Production & Health.
11th September, 2020.
StatE MiNiStRy Of LiVEStOcK, faRM PROMOtiON aNd daiRy aNd EGG RELatEd iNdUStRy
Second eFFiciency Bar examination For tHe  oFFicerS in  Sri Lanka animaL Production and 
HeaLtH Service -2017 (2020)
the name of the examination should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
Language medium of examination Sinhala  - 2  
 tamil  - 3  
 English  - 4
 (Give the relevant number in the box)
01.  (i)  full name(in block letters) :––––––––––––––.
   (Ex: HERatH MUdiyaNSELaGE SaMaN KUMaRa GUNaWaRdHaNE)
  (ii)  Last name with initials (in block letters) :––––––––––––––. 
   (Ex: GUNaWaRdHaNE H.M.S.K)
  (iii)  full name (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––––.
02. Postal address (for dispatch of admission card) :––––––––––––––.
 (in block letters) 
03. Male / female :
 female   -     1
 Male      -      0
 (write the appropriate number in the cage)
04. Nic number :
05. Mobile No. :
06. Subjects selected with the number as indicated in the paragraph 04 of the notification (Should be written clearly) :
 
Subject No. Subject
07. State whether you have sat for whole or a part of this examination. if so state the subjects, year and month :–––––––––––.
08. date of birth :           year :                         Month :                    date : 

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1566
09. Name of the designation :–––––––––––.
 (in block letters)
 Name of the department :–––––––––––.
 (in block letters)
10. the date on which the appointment  was made to the Sri 
Lanka animal Production and Health Service :–––––––.
i declare that the above particulars are correct and that 
i am entitled to sit for the examination in the language 
medium indicated above.further i am prepared to abide 
by the conditions enacted by the commissioner General of 
Examinations with regard to the conduct of the examination.
10. Examination fee Rs. :–––––––––––.
 Paying Office :–––––––––––.
 Receipt No. :–––––––––––.
To affix the receipt (keep a Photostat copy of the receipt) 
  
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of candidate.
date :–––––––––––.
commissioner General of Examinations,
through director General, department of animal 
Production & Health,
forwarded :-
i certify that the candidate whose particulars appear 
above is eligible to sit for the examination and that he/ she 
has qualifications to sit for the examination in the medium 
stated  in the application.
*i also certify that the receipt, paying the prescribed 
examination fee, has been duly affixed by the candidate. 
i attest the candidate's signature.
 ––––––––––––––,  
 Signature of Head of department 
 and designation.
 (Place the rubber stamp)
date :–––––––––––.
(*May be deleted, fees not been paid)
10–160/2
mINISTRy Of TRADE
Department of measurement units, Standards and 
Services
OPEN cOMPEtitiVE EXaMiNatiON fOR tHE 
REcRUitMENt tO tHE tRaiNEE GRadE Of tHE 
POStS Of Lab aSSiStaNt Of tHE SRi LaNKa 
tEcHNOLOGicaL SERVicE Of dEPaRtMENt 
Of MEaSUREMENt UNitS, StaNdaRdS aNd 
SERVicES—2020
aPPLicatiONS are called for the open competitive 
Examination for the Recruitment to the Posts of Lab 
assistant of the Sri Lanka technological Service of 
department of Measurement Units, Standards and Services. 
the applications prepared according to the specimen 
application mentioed at the end of this notice should be sent 
to ‘commissioner General of Examinations, organisation 
and foreign Examinations branch, Examination department 
of Sri Lanka, Pelawatta, battaramulla to be reached on or 
before 02.11.2020. ‘Open competitive Examination for the 
Recruitment to the Posts of Lab assistant of the Sri Lanka 
technological Service of department of Measurement 
Units, Standards and Services” should be mentioned on the 
top of the left hand corner of the envelope.
01. Conditions for recruitment and Service Conditions :
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable, 
contributions should be made for the W & OP.
 (ii) this post will be on probation for a period of  
03 years.
 (iii) According to the Official Language Policy and 
the Public administration circular No. 07/2007 
all should get the official language proficiency 
within the specified period.
02. Salaries and Allowances.—
 t rainee Grade
 1st year - Rs. 27140/- monthly allowance
 2nd year - Rs. 27440/- monthly allowance
 cost of Living allowance - Rs. 7800/-
03. Educational Qualifications.—
Should have passed the G.c.E. (a/L) Examination 
in one attempt with three subjects of composite 
mathematics, advanced Mathematics, Physics, 
biology, chemistry and agriculture and Physics 
must be included in the above three subjects.
or

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1567
according to the old syllabus three subjects should 
be passed in one sitting with Physics.
and
06 subjects, including language, Maths, Science 
and a credit pass in any subject, should be 
passed in G.c.E (O/L) in one sitting. 
 
04. Other Qualifications : 
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) age should be 18-30 years to the last date of 
receiving applications
:(accordingly only those 
who have born 30.11.2002 or before and on 
30.11.1990 and after that are qualified to apply 
for this (the maximum age limit is 45 years 
for those who are already in the Government 
Service/Provincial Government Service/State 
corporations should be forwarded through their 
heads of institutions.)
 (iii) Should have an excellent character and a good 
health condition.
05. Method of recruitment.– the applicants who have been 
fulfilled the above qualifications should be passed in the Open 
competitive Examination will be conducted by 
the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka. 40% 
marks or more should be obtained per each subject 
to pass the examination. a schedule of a result sheet 
according to the serial number of the total marks of 
the applicants who have passed will be sent to the 
director of the department of Measurement Units, 
Standards and Services for inspection. there will be 
no marks given in the Interview. Those who fulfilled 
the qualifications and obtained top marks in both 
subjects will be recruited to the training. the result sheets 
will be sent to all applicants to their private addresses or 
published in the website www.results.exams.gov.lk by the 
commissioner General of Examinations. the commissioner 
General of Examinations regarding the conduct of 
Examination and issue of results is the final. 
06. this examination will be held only in colombo.
07. Written examination.– the examination will be held 
in Sinhala, tamil and English. the medium of language 
applied is not allowed to change later. all the question 
papers should be answered in the medium itself applied by 
the applicant.
There are two question papers :
1. iQ - total marks 100. 1 hour
 this question paper inclduding ability of rational 
thinking, general knowledge, general iQ and 
ability to take decisions is consisted with 50 
questions - multiple and short answers. all the 
questions should be answered.
2. Technical question paper —t otal marks 100. 
2 hours. the question paper is of measuring 
physical quantities and to examine the practical 
knowledge of physics. the knowledge of G.c.E. 
(A/L) is sufficient for this test. All the questions 
should be answered.
08. Application and method of Application.–  from No. 
01 to 10 should be in the first page and from 11 to 12 in 
the second page from 13 to 20 in the third page and the 
rest in the fourth page of the application and should be 
filled clearly in own handwriting.The applications not 
complying to the specimen application form and incomplete 
applications will be rejected without notice. So, before the 
application is forwarded confirm whether the application is 
complied with the specimen form and completed and the 
duly complied receipt of payment of examination fee has 
been pasted. Keeping a photocopy of the application will be 
useful. further, when the application is prepared the name 
of the examination should be mentioned on the top of the 
application in English except Sinhala and except tamil in 
tamil language applications. the receipt of application will 
not be informed.
09. Applications of officers who are already in the 
Government service/Provincial Government Service/State 
corporations should be forwarded through their heads of 
institutions.
10. admission cards for the examination will be posted 
by the commissioner General of Examinations to all the 
applicants who have paid the due examination fee and 
submitted the applications on or before the due date on 
assumption that only those who have qualifications mentioned 
in the Gazette  Notification have applied. As soon as the 
admission cards are issued for the applicants a newspaper 
advertisement will be published by the department of 
Examinations mentioning that. if the admission cards are not 
received even after lapse of two or three days, it should be 
informed to the department of Examinations as mentioned 
in the notice. you are informed to contact the department of 
Examinations with the copy of the application, copy of the 
receipt of payment of examination fee, receipt of registration 

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1568
of application mentioning the name of the examination, full 
name of the applicant, Nic No. and address and if applicants 
outside colombo can contact with an applications by fax for 
more effectiveness.
10.1 Signature of the applicant in the application 
and admission card should have been attested. 
Signature of applicants who are already in the 
service of any institution should be attested 
by the head of the institution or an authorized 
officer and the signature of other applicants 
should be attested by a School Principal/retired 
officer, Grama Niladhari of the division, Justice 
of Peace, Commissioner of Confirmation, 
attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, an authorized 
Officer in the armed forces permanent officer in 
executive grade in Public or Provincial Public 
Service or chief incumbent of any buddhist 
temple, a Nayaka thero or in-charge of clergy 
of other religion or very important person of any 
clergy.
10.2 issuing an admission card to any applicant will 
not be considered as a qualification to his/her 
for any post or sit for the examination.
11. Examination fee is Rs. 600.00 and the receipt 
received from any post office, sub post office in the 
name of the applicant for payment of the examination 
fee to be credited to the government revenue under the 
Revenue Head of commissioner General of Examinations                                                 
2003-02-13 should be pasted in one corner on the due place 
of the application. it is kindly informed that except this any 
fee is not charged. Money orders or stamps are not accepted 
for the examination fee and the payment will not be refunded 
or transfer to another examination under any circumstances 
and keeping a photocopy will be useful in future.
12. applicant (Male/female) should prove his/her 
identity for the satisfaction of the examiner for each and 
every subject he/she face. for that any of the following 
documents will be submitted.
 (i) National identity card
 (ii) Valid Passport
 (iii) Valid Sri Lankan driving License.
and applicants should not cover the face and ears when 
entering the examination to confirm the identity those who 
refuse to prove of his/her identity such applicants will not 
be admitted to the examination hall further, applicants 
should not cover face and ears until finish the examination, 
after entering the examination hall in order to identify the 
authority of the examination.
13. the decision of the commissioner General of 
Examinations regarding the conduct of examination and 
issue of results is the final so all the applicants should agree 
to abide by the rules and regulations of the commissioner. 
if these conditions are overuled, he/she will have to undergo 
the punishment imposed by him.
14. the authority of taking decisions regarding any 
matter not covered by this notice is with the director of 
Measurement Units, Standards and Services and if any                 
non-conformity among the Sinhala, tamil and English 
notices the Sinhala version is enforced.
 S. N. 
akurantiLake,
 director of Measurement Units, Standards and 
 Services (d. a)
 Measurement Units, Standards and 
 Services department.
Mahenawatta,
Pitipana,
Homagama,
15th September, 2020.
SPecimen aPPLication Form
For office use
oPen comPetitive examination For tHe recruitment to tHe 
trainee grade oF tHe PoStS oF LaB aSSiStant oF tHe 
Sri Lanka tecHnoLogicaL Service oF dePartment oF 
meaSurement unitS, StandardS and ServiceS—2020
Medium of Language:
Sinhala  - 2
tamil  - 3  
English - 4
(Put the relevant No. in the cage)
01. full Name in English block capitals :–––––––––––––.
02. Name with initials :–––––––––––––.
 (in English block letters) eg. NiMaL a. P.
03. full Name (Sinhala/t amil) :–––––––––––––.
04. (a) Permanent address English block letters :–––––––.
    (admission card will be posted to this address)
 (b) Permanent address (Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1569
05. Gender (Male -0, female -1)
 (Put the relevant No. in the cage) 
06. National identity card No. :
07. Mobile telephone No. :
08. Whether married or single:
 (Married -1, Single -2)
 (Put the relevant No. in the cage)
09. Ethnicity:
 (Sinhala -1, tamil -2, indian tamil -3,
 Muslim -4, Other-5)
 (Put the relevant No. in the cage)
10.  (a)  date of birth:
  y ear :                     Month :   date :
 (b) age to the last date of calling applications:
  y ears :                 Months :                days :
11. Mention whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka by 
descent or by registration (if by resitration mention the 
details) :–––––––––––––.
12. Educational/Professional Qualifications:
 12.1  G.c.E. (O/L) Examination :
  y ear you have passed the examination :––––––.
  index No. :–––––––––––––.
Subjects Grade achieved
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
 12.2  G.c.E. (a/L) Examination 
  y ear you have passed the examination :––––––.
  index No. :–––––––––––––.
Subjects Grade achieved
1
2
3
4
  12.3
Highest examination 
passed
Sinhala
tamil
English
  12.4  Other Educational/Professional Qualifications:
examination Institute Date
13. Present employment and former designation, if any:
Designation From Upto Annual Salary
14. Have you been dismissed from any employment in 
Government service? (if so, mention in detail) :––––––.
15. Have departmental disciplinary inquiry been held 
against you (if you are still in government service) :         
–––––––––––––.
16. Have you been convicted by any court? :––––––––––.
17. Please give telephone numbers and addresses of two 
non-related persons in order to get information of about 
you:
  1.  ............................. 2. .............................
   .............................  .............................
   .............................  .............................

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1570
18. Other related information :–––––––––––––.
19.  (i)  Post office where the examination fees was paid  
  :–––––––––––––.
  (ii) No. of the receipt :–––––––––––––.
  (iii) date :–––––––––––––.
Please paste securely the receipt obtained for 
payment of examination fee
20. Certification of the applicant:
i hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and correct and the receipt                                                                      
No.  ...................................... and dated ............................... 
for payment of examination fee has been pasted on this. i 
also agree with any decision taken by the commissioner 
General of Examinations regarding cancellation of my 
candidature if any disqualification was detected according 
to the examination rules and regulations when the 
examination is going on or after that. and if found any 
wrong or fault even after appointed to the post, i agree that 
i would be able to be dismissed from my service without 
any compensation. further, i agree to abide by the rules and 
regulations applicable to candidates regarding the conduct 
of examination and issue of results.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of candidate.
date :–––––––––––––.
21. Certification of the Signature:
i do hereby certify that i know the applicant Miss/Mrs./
Ms. ................................ personally and he/she put his/her 
signature on .................................... in my presence and 
pasted the receipt by paying the relevant payment of the 
examination fee.
  ––––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the officer and 
  the official stamp.
Name :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––––.
22. Certification of the Head of the Department if the 
applicant is serving in the government service :
i do hereby certify that the details furnished by the 
applicant are accurate/should be amended as follows, has 
paid the due examination fee and pasted the receipt, his/
her work and conduct are ................................ and he/she 
can/cannot be released from the present service. (cut off the 
irrelevant words)
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the department/
 institution.
designation :–––––––––––––.
(Should be attested by Official Stamp)
date :–––––––––––––.
10–184
–––––––––––––––––––––
EffICIENCy bAR ExAmINATION fOR 
GRADE II LEGAL OffICERS IN ThE 
DEPARTmENT Of LEGAL AffAIRS - 2020
01. HEREby  notify that the second efficiency bar 
examination for Legal Officers will be held by the Department 
of Examinations of Sri Lanka in January 2021 in accordance 
with the provisions in the approved recruitment procedure 
for Legal Officers in the Executive Service Category of the 
department of Legal affairs.
02. (i) this examination will be held by the commissioner 
General of Examinations and candidates are liable to terms 
and conditions imposed by him in relevant to conducting 
the examination and issuance of results. in relevant to 
conducting the examination and issuance of results, decision 
of the Commissioner General of Examinations will be final.
(ii) terms and conditions for the candidates is separately 
printed in the Gazette Notification. They are liable to 
any penalty imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations in case of breaching these laws.
03. examination fee:- candidates can sit for the subjects 
prescribed for examinations at one sitting or separately. 
fee is not charged from the candidates who sit for the 
examination for the first time. A fee of Rs. 250.00 is charged 
for any subsequent sitting. Receipt obtained on payment of 
examination fee to any post office, sub post office credited 
to 20-03-02-13 Revenue Heading of the commissioner 
General of Examinations should be firmly affixed to the 

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1571
prescribed place in the application. (keeping a copy of the 
receipt will be useful). Money orders or stamps are not 
accepted for examination fee and any fee is not refunded or 
transferred for another examination due to any reason.
04. Applications.– applications should be prepared in 
accordance with the specimen application attached to this 
notification. It should be prepared as per the specimen 
application using both sides of a4 size paper including 
No.01 to No.04 to the first page and rest to the other page. 
While preparing applications, applications with a Sinhala 
title should be indica ted in English language in addition 
to Sinhala language and in the application with a tamil 
title should be indicated in English language in addition to 
tamil language. though the application can be prepared by 
computer typesetting, it should be clearly filled by applicant 
in his own hand writing. applications prepared accordingly 
should be forwarded through the Head of the department 
to the address “commissioner General of Examinations, 
Organization (corporate and foreign Examinations) 
branch, department of Examination of Sri Lanka, P.b.1503, 
colombo, via registered post before 06.11.2020. Name of 
the examination should be written in the top left hand corner 
of envelope. applications that are incomplete or received 
late will be rejected. further the applicant should verify 
whether the completed application is in accordance with the 
specimen application in the notification for examination and 
if not the application will be rejected. (Keeping a copy of the 
completed application will be useful).
05. Identity of the candidate.– a candidate should prove 
his identity to the satisfaction of examiner in charge of the 
examination center for all subjects of the examination. any 
of the following documents should be produced to confirm 
the identity of the candidate :
 i. National identity card
 ii. Valid Passport
 iii. Valid driving License
also applicants should enter the examinations hall 
avoiding face or ear masks to enabling to verify their 
identity. applicants who refused to prove their identity are 
not allowed to enter the examination hall. further, during 
entire period stayed at the examination hall from start to the 
end of examination, refrain from covering the face and ears.
06. the commissioner General of Examinations will 
issue admissions together with a copy of the time table to the 
candidates assuming that only the applicants who fulfilled 
qualifications stipulated in the Gazette Notification have 
applied for the examination. department of Examinations 
will publish a paper notice immediately after issuance of 
admissions to applicants. if admissions have not received 
even after 02 or 03 days publishing notice, it should be 
informed to department of Exami nations via the telephone 
numbers thereof mentioning full name, address, Nic No. 
and the name of the examination and it is useful to keep 
a copy of the application, a copy of the receipt and receipt 
obtained on forwarding the application by registered post. 
if applicant lives outside colombo, it is fruitful to forward 
a request letter to the department of Examinations through 
fax message mentioning your fax number and above details 
for obtaining a copy of the application via fax.
07. Signature of the applicant both in application and 
admission should be certified by the Head of the Department 
or any other officer authorized by him. Applicant should 
sit for the examination at the prescribed center under the 
index number assigned to him and admission certified for 
signature should be handed over the examiner in-charge. 
applicant, who does not provide his/ her admission, will not 
allow appearing for the examination.
08. designation and service station of the applicants at 
the submission of application for examination are applicable 
to all purposes of the examination and any alterations after 
forwarding applications will not be considered.
09. Head of the departments should grant duty leave 
to the candidates who have issued applications by the 
commissioner General of Examinations to appear for the 
examination.
10. this Examination will be held only in Sinhala, 
tamil and English media. if an applicant joined the public 
service by a competitive examination, his medium will be 
the medium he appeared for the competitive examination or 
if an applicant joined the public service without competitive 
examination, medium that he was eligible to join the public 
service will be his medium. the candidate should sit for all 
the subjects in same medium and the applied medium is not 
allowed to change later.
11. this examination will be held only in colombo.
12. examination Procedure: Examination relevant to the 
above post consists of the following subjects.
Question
paper
Duration Total
marks
Pass
marks
Law 03 hrs 100 40

<!-- page 40 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1572
Syllabus :
Name of the
Question
Paper
Syllabus
Law acts under the purview of Ministry of 
finance
i. Legal Systems of Sri Lanka
ii. Law of contracts
iii. Law of agency
Note -
 *  failure to pass the examination within the 
prescribed period will be a reason to defer the 
next increment.
13. issuance of admission to a candidate should not be 
considered as he/she has fulfilled qualifications required to 
sit for the examination.
14. Regarding any matter that has not been provided 
provisions by this Gazette Notification the decision of the 
Director General, Department of Legal Affairs will be final.
15. if the Sinhala, tamil and English versions of the 
notifications are inconsistent, then the Sinhala version will 
be accepted.
director General.
department of Legal affairs, 
colombo 01.
Specimen Application
EfficiENcy baR EXaMiNatiON fOR LEGaL 
OfficERS iN GRadE ii Of tHE EXEcUtiVE 
SERVicE catEGORy iN tHE dEPaRtMENt Of 
LEGaL affaiRS - 2020
 (For office use only)
Medium to sit for the examination:
Sinhala  - 2 
tamil  - 3
English  - 4
(write the relevant No. in the square)
01.  1.1 Name in full (in English block capitals) :–––––––.
   (ex: HERatH MUd1yaNSELaGE SaMaN 
KUMaRa GUNaWaRdHaNa)
  1.2 Name with surname in the first and initials to the 
end of the name (in English block capitals) :–––––.
   (ex : GUNa WaRdHaNa, H. M. S. K.)
  1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
   (Sinhala/ tamil)
02. 2.1 Name and address of the office / department/ 
institute (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
   (admission card will be sent to this address )
  2.2 Name and address of the office/ department/ 
institute :–––––––––––.
   (Sinhala/ tamil)
  2.3 Private address :–––––––––––.
   (Sinhala/t amil)
  2.4 Mobile tele. No.:
03. National identity card No. :  
04. Gender:
  4.1  Male  - 0 
   female  - i
   (write the relevant No. in the square)
05. date of birth : 
 y ear:                   Month :                 date :
06. Present post :
  6.1 Post :–––––––––––.
  6.2 No. in the appointment letter :–––––––––––.
07.  7.1 Do you sit the examination for the first time ? :–––––.
  7.2 if not amount paid as examination fee :–––––––––.
  7.3 Receipt No. :–––––––––––. 
  7.4 date :–––––––––––.
Affix the receipt here (Only if relevant) 
(Keeping a copy of the receipt will be useful)
1 do hereby declare that the above details are correct 
and entitled to sit for the examination in the above 
mentioned media and receipt obtained on payment of                                                             

<!-- page 41 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1573
Rs. ....................... as examination fee has been affixed here. 
further declare that i agree with the terms and conditions 
impose by the commissioner General of Examinations in 
relevant to conducting examination and issuance of results.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the candidate.
date :–––––––––––.
applicant should sign before the Head of the department 
or officer authorized to sign on behalf of the Head of the 
department.
Certification of Signature :
I do hereby certify that ............................, an officer 
serving in my department and personally known to me 
signed at my presence on this date of .................................... 
and the receipt obtained on payment of examination fee has 
been affixed herewith.
 ––––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the certifying officer.
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
(certify by the seal)
Certificate of the Head of the Department :
i do hereby certify that,
 1. the above details are examined,
 2. Officer is eligible to sit for this examination.
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official seal of the 
 Head of the department.
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
10–370
amendment
DEPARTmENT  Of  ExAmINATIONS, 
SRI  LANkA
Structured Interview for Recruitment to                  
Grade III Posts of management Assistant 
Technological Segment 3 Service  
Category – 2019 (2020)
REViSiON is made to secti on (c) under iii. professional 
qualifications of para 02. of the notification “Structured 
interview for Recruitment to Grade iii Posts of Management 
assistant technological Segment 3 Service category of the 
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka  – 2019 (2020)” 
published under the notification No. 9-821 in the Gazette 
of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No.2195 
dated 25
th September, 2020 as mentioned below. 
iii. Professional qualifications :
(c) among the applicants who applied for the post 
of Preprinting Planner, priority will be given to 
those who can copy films obtained from cameras 
on printing plates, develop the copied printing 
plates, compose letterpress to print a manuscript 
or a printed copy (composing) and operate 
process cameras.
 B. SanatH PujitHa,
 commissioner General of  
 Examinations.
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pelawatta, battaramulla,
29th September, 2020.
10–556

<!-- page 42 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1574
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government 
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
Order, Postal Order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 One inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 One column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every friday. day of publication is subject to alteration in 
any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should be 
addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.)  580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade Mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 43 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2020
1575
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2020
 OCTObER 02.10.2020 friday — 18.09.2020 friday 12 noon
  09.10.2020 friday –– 25.09.2020 friday 12 noon
  16.10.2020 friday –– 02.10.2020 friday 12 noon
  23.10.2020 friday –– 09.10.2020 friday 12 noon
  29.10.2020 thursday –– 16.10.2020 friday 12 noon
 NOvEmbER 06.11.2020 friday — 23.10.2020 friday 12 noon
  13.11.2020 friday –– 29.10.2020 thursday 12 noon
  20.11.2020 friday –– 06.11.2020 friday 12 noon
  27.11.2020 friday –– 13.11.2020 friday 12 noon
 DECEmbER 04.12.2020 friday — 20.11.2020 friday 12 noon
  11.12.2020 friday –– 27.11.2020 friday 12 noon
  18.12.2020 friday –– 04.12.2020 friday 12 noon
  24.12.2020 thursday –– 11.12.2020 friday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2020.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  Of  GOVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.