

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2246
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2242
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"987 – 2016 iema;eïn¾ ui 30 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'09'30
No. 1,987 –  fRiday ,  sEPtEmbER 30, 2016
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 21st  october, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th  october, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
15th september, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2239
Note.— Rajitha senarathne foundation (incorporation) bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 24, 2016.
N. B.— Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 1986 of 23.09.2016 was not published. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2016
2240
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2016
2241
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2016
2242
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT 
Posts of Registrars of marriages, births and Deaths 
 
KaLutaRa  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrars of marriages, births and deaths in the divisions set out in the 
schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said births, deaths and marriages Registration divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the schedule on or 
before 31st october, 2016.
 E. m. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division  Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kalutara Horana Post of Registrar of marriages (General) district secretary/additional
    in Raigama Koralaya division and    Registrar General,  district
   births and deaths of millewa division  secretariat, Kalutara. 
09–1030
––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of muslim marriages 
KaLutaRa  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrars of muslim marriages in the divisions set out in the schedule 
hereto.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2016
2243
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said muslim marriages Registration divisions and should 
be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. muslim males only can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
31st october, 2016.
 E. m. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla,
08th september, 2016. 
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division  for which Address to which
  Division  Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kalutara beruwala Post of additional Registrar of muslim district secretary/additional
    marriages in mihiripenna area of   Registrar General, district   
   Kalutara and Panadura totamuna  secretariat, Kalutara.
   division.
09–1029
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of muslim marriages 
KaNdy  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrars of muslim marriages in the divisions set out in the schedule 
hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said muslim marriages Registration divisions and should 
be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. muslim males only can apply for these posts. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2016
2244
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
31st october, 2016.
 E. m. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla,
09th september, 2016. 
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division  for which Address to which
    Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy udunuwara Post of Registrar of muslim marriages district secretary/additional
    of Elpitiya and Gelioya area of   Registrar General, district   
   udunuwara and yatinuwara division   secretariat, Kandy.
09–1031
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of muslim marriages 
mataRa  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrars of muslim marriages in the divisions set out in the schedule 
hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said muslim marriages Registration divisions and should 
be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. muslim males only can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2016
2245
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. 
07. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
31st october, 2016.
 E. m. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla,
09th september, 2016. 
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division  for which Address to which
    Applications are called Applications should be sent
matara dickwella Post of Registrar of muslim marriages district secretary/additional
    of dickwella division  Registrar General, district   
      secretariat, matara
09–1032
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of muslim marriages 
baduLLa  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrars of muslim marriages in the divisions set out in the schedule 
hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said muslim marriages Registration divisions and should 
be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. muslim males only can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development societies and co-operative societies in the division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2016
2246
07. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
31st october, 2016.
 E. m. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla,
09th september, 2016. 
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division  for which Address to which
    Applications are called Applications should be sent
badulla Haldummulla Post of Registrar of muslim marriages district secretary/additional
    of Haldummulla divisional   Registrar General, district   
   secretariat division  secretariat, badulla
09–1033
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
Open Competitive Examination for the 
Recruitment of Supervisory management 
Assistant Technical Officer (Grain Surveyor 
Grade III) – 2016
Applications are called from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka 
for the open competitive Examination to the recruitment 
for the vacant post of supervisory management assistant 
Technical Officer (Grain Surveyor Grade III) of   Food 
commissioner's department.
2. A qualified candidate will be selected for the post 
of Supervisory Management Assistant Technical Officer 
(Grain surveyor Grade iii) on the basis of the merit order 
of results obtained at the written examination conducted by 
the commissioner General of Examinations.
3. the effective date of the appointment will be decided 
by the food commissioner and the decision of food 
Commissioner shall be final with regard to filling of the 
vacancy pertaining to this position.
4. Monthly Salary Scale.– in terms of the Public 
administration circular 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 and the 
salary code mN 03-2016 the salary scale is Rs. 31,040-
10 x 445-11x 660-10 x 730-10 x 750 - Rs. 57,550. to   
exceed Rs. 36,150/- promoting to class ii and to exceed                          
Rs. 43,480/- promoting to class i are compulsory.
5. this post is permanent and pensionable.
6. Conditions of Service. – the selected candidate will 
be appointed to the post of supervisory management 
assistant t echnical officer (Grain Surveyor Grade III) 
and he/she will be subject to the general conditions of 
controlling appointments in Public service, terms and 
conditions of the scheme of Recruitments dated 26.07.2012 
pertaining to this position, amendments those have been 
made and to be made hereinafter. the period of probation 
is three years. The Ist   Efficiency Bar should be passed 
within the probationary period of three years and the ii
nd 
Efficiency Bar should be passed before the completion 
of three  years subsequent to the promotion to Grade ii. 
Further, proficiency in Second Official Language should 
be obtained before the completion of five years of the 
appointment in terms of the Public administration circular 
07/2007 dated 28.05.2007.
7. Qualifications.– The following qualifications are 
required for the recruitment to the post of supervisory 
Management Assistant Technical Officer (Grain Surveyor 
Grade iii) :
 (a)  the candidate should be a citizen of sri Lanka
 (b)  the candidate should not be below 18 years of age 
and should not be above 35 as at the closing date.
 (c) should possess an excellent character.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2016
2247
 (d)  Should have the Educational Qualifications given 
below.
 (i)  should have passed G.c.E (a/L) Examination 
at one sitting with 03 subjects including 
chemistry and Physics subjects (except 
General test and General English).  
   and
 (ii)  should have passed G.c.E (o/L) Examination 
at one sitting with 06 subjects including credit 
passes for Language, mathematics, science, 
English Language and one of the other 
subjects.
 (e) should  possess the following Professional  
qualifications :
 (i) Completion of National V ocational Qualification 
(NVQ) Level 5 or the above level relevant to the 
field Agriculture or Food Technology.
  or
 (ii)  diploma of two year course in agriculture 
offered by an agricultural institute under the 
department of agriculture
        or
 (iii)  diploma in Higher National diploma 
in Technology (HNDT) in the fields of             
agriculture or food technology
        or
 (iv)  Other qualification in Agriculture or 
food t echnology recognized by t ertiary 
and Professional Education commission 
equivalent to the above qualifications or a 
qualification offered by  a University or an 
institute recognized by university Grants 
commission equivalent to the above diploma 
qualifications. 
  (f)  Two year experience in the field of food technology 
is compulsory.
  Every candidate should have fulfilled all the 
qualifications relevant to the post on or before the 
closing date.
8. examination Procedure :
 8.1  this examination consists of two papers. the 
examination will be held in sinhala, tamil and 
English medium and not allowed to change the 
medium later.
  the examination will be held in colombo.
  Marks  Duration
1. aptitude test 100  01 hour
2. food technology  100  01 hour
 1.  Intelligent Test : the candidate's capacity in 
rational thinking, analytical thinking and decision 
making will be tested in this paper. all the 
questions should be answered. It consists of fifty 
questions including multiple choice Questions 
and short answering Questions.
 2.  Food Technology : the candidate's knowledge 
in the methods of grain   surveying and quality 
controlling will be tested in this paper. all the 
questions should be answered. (these papers are 
made to test the candidate's qualifications and 
capability in the discharge of duties.)
 8.3  the candidates who score highest marks out of 
those who obtain marks of forty percent (40%) 
or above for each paper will be called for the 
interview. No marks will be given at the interview 
and it is only to test the qualifications of the 
candidates.
 8.4  a priority list based on the aggregate of marks 
prepared by the commissioner General of 
Examinations subsequent to the selection of 
candidates those who obtained 40% or above 
marks will be submitted to the food commissioner 
of food commissioner's department. further 
commissioner General of Examinations will 
inform the results individually though post or 
though the website www.results.exams.gov.lk 
9. Penalties for false information.– applicants should 
be responsible to provide true information in filling 
applications. a candidate who is found to have been 
ineligible in terms of the rules and regulations of the 
examination his/her candidature will be cancelled prior 
to the examination, at the examination, subsequent to the 
examination or any other situation. if any information 
provided by the candidates is found to be false he/she is 
liable to be dismissed from Public service.
10. examination Fee.– Examination fee Rs. 750.  it may 
be paid at any  Post Office or Sub Post  Office to the credit 
of revenue head number 2003-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examinations and a receipt must be obtained. 
the fee must be paid in the name of the applicant and 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2016
2248
the receipt must be affixed firmly in the relevant cage of 
the application. this fee will not be refunded under any 
circumstance. it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
receipt with the applicant.
11. Applications.– should to be prepared by using a4 
(24cmx29cm) size papers :
 (a)  Paragraphs under number 01 to number 04 should 
be in the first page,
 (b)  the next paragraphs from the paragraph number 
05 should be in the other pages.
 (c)  the name of the examination should be entered in 
English in sinhala applications and in English in 
tamil applications.
the applications should be clearly perfected by the 
candidates in their own handwriting. the applications 
which are not conformed to the prescribed specimen 
application, not duly paid the fee, not perfected accurately 
and incomplete will be rejected without any intimation. 
the risk of not perfecting applications accurately should 
be borne by the candidates themselves. it is advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the application with the candidate 
and the application should be conformed to the specimen 
application published in the Gazette notification. If not the 
application will be rejected.
 11.1  the commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue admission cards for all the candidates 
those who duly paid the fee and sent applications 
to reach on or before the closing date. However, 
issuing an admission card to a candidate will not 
be considered as a fulfillment of qualifications to 
sit for the examination.
 11.2  ''Open Competitive Examination for 
Recruitment to Supervisory management 
Assistant Technical Officer in Food 
Commissioners' Department (Class III of 
Grain Surveyor) 2016" should be mentioned at 
the top left corner of the envelope enclosing the 
application.
 11.3  the signature of the applicant should be attested 
by a Principal of a Government school, Justice of 
the Peace, a Commissioned Officer of the Navy, 
air force or army, a Gazetted Police Officer or an 
officer holding a permanent post in public service 
drawing an annual salary of Rs. 240,360/- or 
above.
 11.4  the duly perfected applications should be sent 
to the under mentioned address on or before 21st 
october 2016 under registered post. 
 commissioner General of Examinations, 
 organization and foreign Examination branch, 
 department of Examinations,
 P. o. box 1503,
 colombo.
12. Appearing for the examination.– A notification 
will be published by the department of Examination 
in the News Papers immediately after the admission 
cards are issued to the candidates and any candidate 
who did not receive the admission card should inquire   
the organization and foreign Examination branch of 
Department of Examinations at least five days earlier to the 
examination date. it is advisable to inform the department 
of Examinations by sending a certified copy of the receipt 
of payments and if you stay outside colombo a fax number 
enabling to send the admission card. to prove when the 
department inquires, it would be advisable to keep ready 
a photocopy of the application retained, a copy of the 
invoice of the payment of examination fee and receipt of 
registering when posting the application.  
12.1 (i)  candidate should produce either of the 
following documents to the supervisor to 
prove their identity.
 *  National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons ;
 * Valid passport.
 (ii)   the attested admission card should be produced 
to the supervisor at the examination.
13. the decision of holding the examination and issuing 
results will be the final decision of the Commissioner 
General of Examinations. if the rules and regulations 
pertaining to this examination enacted by the commissioner 
General of Examinations are violated by a candidate he/
she will be penalized by the commissioner General of 
Examinations.
14. the decision of the food commissioner will be the 
final decision regarding any matter not mentioned above. 
all the candidates are bound to abide by the general rules 
and regulations published in the Gazette.
 J. 
krishnamoorthy,
 food commissioner.
food commissioner's department,
No. 330,
union Place,
colombo 02,
30th september, 2016.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2016
2249
Specimen form of Application
wdydr flduidßia fomd¾;fïka;=fõ wëlaIK 
l<ukdlrK iyldr ;dlaIK ks,OdÍ ^OdkH iólaIl 
iii jk fY%a‚h& ;k;=rg n|jd .ekSu i|yd jk újD; 
;r. úNd.h - 2016 
oPEN comPEtitiVE ExamiNatioN 
foR REcRuitmENt to   suPERVisoRy 
maNaGEmENt  assistaNt tEcHNicaL officER  
of  food commissioNER’s dEPaRtmENt 
(cLass iii of GRaiN suRVEyoR) 2016
(For Office use only) 
* Language medium of the Examination :
 sinhala  -  2
 t amil    -  3
 English  -  4
 (indicate the Relevant Number in the cage)
1.0  1.1  full Name ( in block capitals) :–––––––––––. 
 (eg :- HERatH mudiyaNsELaGE samaN 
KumaRa GuNaWaRdHaNa.)
 1.2  Surname first and initials of the other names then 
(in block capitals) :–––––––––––. 
 1.3  full Name  :–––––––––––. 
   (in sinhala/tamil)
 1.4  National identity card No. :
2.0  2.1  Permanent address :–––––––––––. 
  (in block capitals)
 2.2  Permanent address :–––––––––––. 
  (in sinhala/tamil)
 2.3  address to send the admission card :––––––––. 
  (in block capitals)
3.0  3.1  sex :
  male  - 0
  female  - 1 
  (indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
4.0  date of birth :   
   Year               Month         Date
  age as at 21.10.2016 :
  Years                    Months                    Days
5.0  Educational Qualifications:
 5.1  G. c. E. o/L :
 (i)  year and month of the Examination :–––––.
 (ii)  admission No. :––––––––––.
 (iii)  Results:
 Subject  Grade Subject Grade
1   6
2   7
3   8
4   9
5   10
 5.2  G. c. E. a/L :
 (i)  year and month of the Examination :–––––.
 (ii)  admission No. :––––––––––.
 (iii)  Results:
 Subject  Grade Subject Grade
1   3
2   4
 5.3  if graduated from a recognized university:
  (i)  university :––––––––––.
  (ii)  degree :––––––––––.
  (iii)  admission No. :––––––––––.
6.0  V ocational Qualifications :
 (i)  ………………….…….
 (ii)  …………………………
7.0  Experience :––––––––––.
8.0  Have you been convicted before a court of Law? :
  y es                              No
   (if "yes" explain) :…………………..
  (indicate ü in the relevant cage) 
9.0 description of the receipt that paid the examination  
fee :
 (i)  district secretariat's division which paid the fee 
:–––––––––––.
 (ii)  No. of the receipt :–––––––––––.
 (iii) the amount paid:–––––––––––.
Affix the receipt firmly
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt)

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2016
2250
10.0   applicant's declaration :
 (a)  i do hereby honourly declare that the particulars 
given by me in the application are true and 
correct. i agree to bear the loss may be incurred by 
incomplete and/ or  false completion of any part 
of this. further, i declare that all the parts in the 
application are completed accurately. 
 (b)  if my declaration is found to be false i am liable to 
be disqualified before selection and to dismissal if 
detected after the appointment.
 (c)  further i declare that i am bound to abide by the 
conditions enacted by the commissioner General 
of Examinations pertaining to the holding of this 
examination.
 (d)  i will make no alternations to any fact mentioned 
in the application.
 –––––––––––––,
 applicant's signature.
date :–––––––––––.
11.0  attestation of applicant's signature:
i certify that mr/mrs./ms................., who is submitting 
this application is personally known to me, has paid the 
due examination fee, has attached the paid receipt and 
he/she has placed his/her signature in my presence on 
the................ day of ……………………
 –––––––––––––––,
       signature  of the attester.
date :––––––––––.
full Name of the attester :––––––––––.
Position :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
(Should be supported by the official frank)
12.0 Certificate of the Head of Department: (Only for the 
applicants employed in Public / Provincial Public/ 
Public cooperation service) 
i certify that mr./mrs./miss .............................. who has 
applied for this post is presently employed in this ministry/ 
department/ institute and recommend and submit his / her 
application. in the event of selecting to the above post, 
SRI  LANkA  SuRVEy  DEPARTmENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to the Post of Apprentice Surveyors in the Sri 
Lanka Survey Department - 2016
tHE open competitive Examination for recruitment to the 
post of apprentice surveyors in the department of survey, 
sri Lanka will be held only in colombo in January 2017 
by the commissioner General of Examinations. the date 
of examination will be notified through newspapers in due 
course. 
applications are invited for the above posts from both 
male and female candidates who comply with the following 
qualifications.
02.  eligibility:-
 (i)  Every candidate must furnish proof that he/she 
 (a) is a citizen of sri Lanka.
 (b) is of excellent moral character.
 (c) is not less than 22 years and not more than 33 
years of age on the closing date of application. 
(Therefore applicant’s age qualifications 
will be fulfilled only if he/she is bone  after 
31.10.1994 and before 31.10.1983)
 (ii)  Educational Qualifications.– all candidates should 
have the following educational qualifications :
  should have a degree in surveying science or a 
b sc. degree with mathematics or Physics as a 
subject or a b sc. degree in computer science 
(should have passed the G.c.E. advanced Level 
with mathematics a subject) or a degree in 
civil Engineering, obtained from a recognized 
university or an institution recognized by the 
university Grants commission.
measures could be taken to him / her from the present post 
of this institute.
   
 –––––––––––––,
 signature of the Head of the department.
Name :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
(Certify with the official frank)
09–1096
––––––––––––––––

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2016
2251
Note:- any person who is waiting for degree results could 
not apply for this examination. However a person 
who has passed a degree of recognized university 
and awaiting for the certificate can be permitted to 
sit for the examination provided he/she submits an 
official letter attached with application form from the 
Registrar of relevant university stating to that effect.
03. Conditions of Services :-
  Salary :
 (i) the consolidated monthly salary assigned to 
this post is as follows.
  as per P.a. circular No. 03/2006 (mN -5 
2006) dated 2016.02.25 Rs. 34,605 – 10x660 
– 11x755 – 15x930 – Rs. 63,460 and you will 
get it in year 2020. you will be paid as per ii 
schedule of above circular from the date of 
appointment.  
 (ii)  this post is permanent. Regarding the 
pension scheme, action will be taken as per 
policy decision taken by the government for 
this post. 
 (iii) Confirmation in Service :-
 (a)  Graduates with b sc. surveying science 
degree appointed to the post of apprentice 
surveyors will be appointed to class          
ii/ii of sri Lanka surveyors’ service 
and conferred with permanent status 
of service after a net total of 4 years 
including training period satisfactory 
service in the survey department, 
including the successful completion of 
training in survey department matters.
 (b)  Graduates with b sc. degree with 
mathematics or Physics as a subject or a 
b sc. or degree in computer science or 
a degree in civil Engineering, appointed 
to the post of apprentice surveyors 
will be appointed to class ii/ii of sri 
Lanka surveyors’ service and conferred 
with permanent status of service after 
a net total of 6 years including training 
period satisfactory service in the survey 
department, including the successful 
completion of b sc. surveying degree 
and training.
 (iv) the candidates selected for appointments 
should present themselves to a medical 
examination by a Government medical 
Officer in Government Hospital with a view 
to it being ascertained whether they are 
physically fit to serve in any part of the Island.
 (v) attention of the applicants is drawn to the 
general conditions applicable to appointments 
to the posts in the Public service published in 
part 1 : section (iia) of this Gazette. 
04. Procedure of examination.– the recruitment 
examination consists of the following 3 question papers. 
01. comprehension  –  50 marks   02 hour paper.
02. intelligence   – 150 marks   01 hour 15 
minute paper.
03. General Knowledge – 150 marks   03 hour paper.
total   350 marks
Comprehension paper: – this paper will consist of 
questions given in the form of short passages. candidates 
are expected to summarize  some of the passages into one 
sentence. Knowledge of interpretation pertaining to some 
underlined words will be tested. there would be multiple 
statements on some passages and candidates are expected to 
select the best matching statement to the given text. some 
passages will carry multiple questions to the applicant and 
it is expected to give correct answer. these questions are 
framed so as to test the candidate’s power of understanding 
the meaning. in addition there will be a long passage for 
précis writing. this question paper is of two hour duration. 
all questions must be answered. 
Intelligence: - this paper is framed with the objective 
of testing the candidate’s power of rational thinking, power 
of analysis and decision making. this will be a multiple 
choice short answer type question paper and there will be 60 
questions. the question paper is of one hour and 15 minute 
duration. all questions must be answered. 
General knowledge: - there will be questions to test 
candidate’s knowledge about the current Political, social, 
cultural, Economic and Environmental matters of both 
national and international importance. all questions must 
be answered. the question paper is of 3 hour duration.
Note :- 
 (i) the examination will be held in sinhala, tamil 
and English mediums.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2016
2252
 (ii) marks will be deducted for bad hand writing and 
spelling mistakes. also those candidates having 
bad hand writing may be deemed to be ineligible 
for sitting the examination.
 (iii) admission cards will be sent to all applicants by 
the commissioner General of Examinations. the 
issue of an admission card to a candidate does not 
necessarily mean that he or she has the requisite 
qualifications to sit for the examination.
05. Method of Selection .– under the minute of the sri 
Lanka surveyors’ service, amendment by Extraordinary 
Gazette notification No. 1675/20 dated 12.10.2010, the 
candidates will be called for an interview on the merit 
order of the total marks 40% or above for each paper at the 
open competitive examination and also depending on the 
number of existing vacancies. No marks will be allotted in 
the interview and only the marks secured at the examination 
will be taken into consideration.
 
06. Every candidate must have complied with all the 
necessary qualifications required for this post before the 
closing date of application for the examination.
07. Procedure of Application :
 (i)  specimen application form -
  specimen application form provided at the end 
of this notification should be followed in applying 
for this post and applicants should prepare their 
applications in the medium in which they appear 
for the examination. also, applications should be 
filled by the applicants in their own hand-writing. 
the name of the examination mentioned at the 
top should be indicated in English in the sinhala 
medium applications in addition to sinhala while 
in the tamil medium applications, the name of 
the examination should be indicated in English in 
addition to tamil. Every section of the application 
should be perfected strictly in accordance with 
the instructions given therein. applicants should 
indicate "not applicable" in any section which is 
not applicable to them. applicants should strictly 
keep in mind that any application with blank 
columns is liable to be rejected. all applications 
which do not conform to the specimen application 
form and incomplete applications will be rejected 
without notice. it will be useful for the candidates 
to retain a photo-copy of the application submitted. 
further, the applicant should make sure that the 
application to be filled by him/her is in accordance 
with the specimen application form mentioned in 
this notification. If not, the application is liable 
to be rejected. (applications should be prepared 
according to the annexed form on a a4 size paper 
and the cages No. 1.0 to 5.0 should appear on 1
st  
page and balance appear on the balance the pages.)
 (ii)  completed applications should be sent by 
registered post to reach “the commissioner 
General of Examinations, sri Lanka department 
of Examinations, organization and foreign 
Examinations branch, Post box 1503 colombo” 
on or before 31.10.2016. applications received 
after the closing date will be rejected. the name of 
the Examination should be written on the left hand 
corner of the cover containing the application. 
 (iii) the examination fee of Rs. 1,000/- should be paid 
credit the commissioner General of Examinations 
revenue account head of 2003 – 02 – 13 from any 
Post Office in Sri Lanka and get the cash receipt on 
the name of applicant and should be firmly affixed 
on one edge of it relevant place of the application.  
No money orders or steams will be accepted for 
examinations fees and at any reasons examinations 
fees cannot be refunded or transfer for any other 
examinations.  
 (iv) candidates presently employed under the 
Government departments /boards/corporations 
etc. should forward their applications through 
the respective Heads of departments. as such 
applicants should hand over their applications 
to their Heads of departments well in time to 
be transmitted to the commissioner General of 
Examinations so as to reach him on or before 
31.10.2016.   applications should not be sent to the 
personal name of surveyor General or any other 
departmental officer. Applications sent through the 
Heads of departments will not also be received 
after the closing date. the candidates applying 
from government service must get the signature 
and official frank of the Head of Department/
institution placed in the application for attestation, 
without which the application will be rejected.
  (v)  Attestation:
  Candidate’s identity should be certified by in the 
case of a candidate from the government service, 
the Head of the respective department or any 
other authorized officer, or in the case of other 
candidates, a Justice of Peace, commissioner of 
oaths, attorney at law or Notary Public, Head of 
Government school or school under the control 
of a Director, a Commissioned Officer of Army, 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2016
2253
Navy or air force, a Permanent Government staff 
Officer in receipt of an consolidated monthly 
salary of  Rs. 22,935/- or above at 31.12.2015, 
the incumbent of buddhist Vihara or a Nayaka 
buddhist monk, the incumbent of a place of 
worship of any other religion or a religious 
dignitary of standing of any other religion.
08.  (i)  Admission to the examination :
  the commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue admission card for the examination to 
each applicant whose applications whose send 
application correctly filled and have been received. 
applicants appearing for the examination must 
get the admission cards attested in advance and 
produce them to the supervisor of the examination 
center. a candidate without such a admission card 
will not be permitted to sit for the examination.
 
  Every candidate should sit for the Examination 
only at the Examination Hall stipulated to him/
her. No any candidate who enters any other 
Examination Hall other than the one assigned to 
him/her will be permitted to sit for the examination. 
a candidate appearing the examination should 
handover his/her admission card to the supervisor 
on the commencing day of examination itself. the 
general conditions applicable to the candidates 
have been published in part i : section (iia) 
of this Gazette . candidates are bound to act in 
conformity with such conditions. A notification 
will be published in newspapers as soon as the 
admission cards are issued to the candidates. if the 
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 
days of such advertisement steps should be taken 
to notify the department of Examinations in the 
manner specified in the advertisement. It would 
be advisable to keep the following in hand at the 
time of calling the department of Examinations : 
i.e. certified photocopies of the application form 
and the receipt kept at your possession, receipt 
of registration and, in case of applicants outside 
colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number 
to which the admission card should be sent.
  the issue of an admission card to a candidate does 
not necessarily mean that he or she has fulfilled the 
requisite qualifications to sit the examination. All 
candidates are bound to abide by the rules enforced 
by the commissioner General of Examinations 
regarding the conducting of examination. a 
candidate who violates any of such rules is liable 
to punishment imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations.
 (ii)  Results of examinations :
  as per paragraph 5 of this notice, results of 
qualified applicants will be sent to the Surveyor 
General, survey department. in addition that 
results will be conveyed to applicant by sending 
results personally or by publishing on the web site 
of Examination department of sri Lanka www.
exams.gov.lk
09. Identification of Candidates.– candidates will be 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they appear. 
for this purpose, any of the following documents will be 
accepted.
 (a) National identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of Persons.
 (b) a  valid passport 
the candidature of any candidate who is unable to submit 
any one of the above mentioned documents is liable to be 
cancelled at the discretion of the commissioner General of 
Examinations.
10. Documents pertaining to the Qualifications :-
 (i) No any other document except the cash receipt 
should be sent along with the application. but all 
the necessary particulars as stipulated should be 
included in the application. all the applications 
should be completed in all respects but any 
incomplete application will be rejected.
 (ii) Candidates who are qualified to be called for 
an interview should prove their eligibility by 
producing documentary evidence at the interview.
 (iii) the originals of the following documents should 
be produced.
  (a) A certificate of good character obtained from 
a responsible person.
Note: this should be from a Justice of Peace, 
attorney at law, divisional secretary of the area 
in which the applicant resides or a Permanent 
Government officer in receipt of an consolidated 
monthly salary step of Rs. 22,935/- or above at the 
date of 31.12.2015, or any Notable from whom 
information can directly be obtained. also the 
Name of attester, designation and address should 
be clearly mentioned in it.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2016
2254
applicants holding permanent posts in the government 
service need not furnish the certificate of good 
character.
 
 (b) A certified copy of register of Birth or (in 
the case of applicants whose births have 
not been registered) a presumed certificate 
of age issued by the Registrar General.
Note:- 
 (i) Special Certificates of birth issued for the purpose 
of using in schools or educational activities or 
certified extracts from register of birth will not be 
accepted.
 (ii) Affidavits or Baptismal certificates will not be 
accepted instead of a birth certificate. If there is 
any discrepancy between name/names on the birth 
certificate and name/names in normal usage in 
which the applicant appears for the examination, 
immediate action should be taken to get the name/
names on the applicant's birth certificate rectified 
appropriately in terms of the conditions stipulated 
in No. 27 or 28 (chap 110) of births and deaths 
Registration act.
 (iii) A certificate of Sri Lankan citizenship by 
registration or a letter of proof accepted by the 
government that the applicant has been a citizen of 
sri Lanka by descent. (as appropriate) 
 (iv) Originals of educational Qualifications or if the 
certificates have not been issued, any other official 
document to that effect namely, 
  An official document issued by the registrar of a 
relevant university to the effect that the applicant 
has passed his/her final degree examination.
 (v) applicants are advised to have their necessary 
documents ready when applying for this post. if 
any candidate fails to submit necessary documents 
or delays in submitting such documents whenever 
requested, he/she will be made ineligible for 
appointment to this post.
11. Furnishing false information. – in terms of the 
conditions of this examination, if a candidate is found to be 
unqualified to sit for this examination, his/her candidature 
is liable to be cancelled prior to this examination, during the 
course of examination or subsequent to the examination or at 
anytime thereafter. during the service of any candidate, if he/
she is found to have suppressed any important information, 
or furnished any false information knowingly, or confirmed 
to have not complied with necessary requirements to have 
appeared for this examination, that  alone will be sufficient 
ground for his/her immediate dismissal from service.
the candidature of any applicant who has not duly 
fulfilled the necessary requirements of this notification will 
be cancelled.
12. any matter not covered by these conditions will be 
determined at the discretion of surveyor General.
13. this notice will be published sinhala, tamil and 
English and if there are any  mismatching or incompatible 
identified, action will be taken as per sinhala notice.
 P. m. P. 
udayakantha,
 surveyor General,
  sri Lanka survey department.
No. 150, Kirula Road,
Narahenpita,
colombo 05.
 
sPEcimEN aPPLicatioN foRm
sri lanka survey department
open competitive examination for recruitment to the 
post of apprentice surveyors in the sri lanka survey 
department- 2016
(For office use only)
1.0 medium of Language in which you are appearing for 
the Exam 
 sinhala – 2 
 tamil  – 3    
 English – 4           
(indicate the relevant No. in the cage.)
2.0 Name :-
 2.1 Name in full :–––––––––.
  (in English block capitals eg. HERatH 
mudiyaNsELaGE sama N KumaRa  
GuNaWaRdHaNa)
 2.2 Last name with initial :–––––––––.
  (Write last name first and then inetial -  in English 
block capitals Eg. GuNaWaRdHaNa H. m. s. K)
 2.3 Name in full :–––––––––.
  (in sinhala /tamil)

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2016
2255
3.0 address  :-
 3.1  Permanent address :––––––––––.
   (in English block capitals)
 3.2 Permanent address :––––––––––.
  (in sinhala/tamil)
 3.3 Office Address :––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals, if applicable)
 3.4 Postal address :––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
 3.5 telephone numbers :-  
  mobile :––––––––––.
  Land :––––––––––.
4.0 4.1 sex :- 
   male   -  0
                female   -  1 
   (indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
     4.2 date of birth:-
 
   y ear  month           date
 4.3 age on 31.10.2016 :
           years    months  days
5.0 5.1 National identity card Number :
 5.2  date of issue :
    y ear month         date
6.0  Nationality:-
  sinhala         - 1
  t amil          - 2
  indian t amil - 3
  muslim - 4 
  other            - 5
  (indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
7.0   7.1 degree obtained:-
   bsc. surveying science – 1
  b sc. Physical science (with 
   mathematics as a subject)  – 2
   b sc. degree in computer science – 3
  degree in civil Engineering  – 4
   (indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
        7.2   G.c.E. (a/L) - year passed exam :––––––––––.
   index No. :––––––––––.
   subjects got through :––––––––––.
8.0  (i)  date of Graduation :––––––––––.
 (ii)  university/institution :––––––––––.
  (iii) Number of Registration, date :––––––––––.
  (iv) External/internal :––––––––––.
  (v) degree :––––––––––.
  (vi) subjects :––––––––––.
  (vii)  the class obtained :––––––––––.
  (viii)   upper/Lower  :––––––––––.
  (ix) index No. :––––––––––. 
  (x) medium of Language in which you appeared for 
the exam :––––––––––. 
9.0.  Affix the cash receipt firmly. Please keep a photocopy 
of the receipt.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
10.0 Certificate of the Candidate :
i hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and correct to the best of my 
knowledge and that the cash receipt No. ………………. 
dated ……………for the payment examination fees. 
further i agree to abide by the rules and regulations of this 
examination, and if i am found to be ineligible according to 
the conditions of this examination, to cancel my candidature 
prior to the examination, while holding the examination 
or subsequent to it. further  i agree to conditions, rules 
and regulations stipulate by the commissioner General of 
Examinations.
 ––––––––––––,
 signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––.
11.0 attestation of candidate’s signature :- (should be as 
per the Para No. 07) :
i hereby certify that   mr./mrs./miss……………… 
(full name) who is submitting this application is personally 
known to me and that he/she placed his/her signature in my 
presence on……………………………………
 ––––––––––––––,
 signature of the attester.
date :––––––––––.
full Name of attester  :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
to have not complied with necessary requirements to have 
appeared for this examination, that  alone will be sufficient 
ground for his/her immediate dismissal from service.
the candidature of any applicant who has not duly 
fulfilled the necessary requirements of this notification will 
be cancelled.
12. any matter not covered by these conditions will be 
determined at the discretion of surveyor General.
13. this notice will be published sinhala, tamil and 
English and if there are any  mismatching or incompatible 
identified, action will be taken as per sinhala notice.
 P. m. P. u
dayakantha,
 surveyor General,
  sri Lanka survey department.
No. 150, Kirula Road,
Narahenpita,
colombo 05.
 
sPEcimEN aPPLicatioN foRm
s
ri lanka survey department
open competitive examination for recruitment to the 
post of apprentice surveyors in the sri lanka survey 
department- 2016
(For office use only)
1.0 medium of Language in which you are appearing for 
the Exam 
 sinhala – 2 
 tamil  – 3    
 English – 4           
(indicate the relevant No. in the cage.)
2.0 Name :-
 2.1 Name in full :–––––––––.
  (in English block capitals eg. HERatH 
mudiyaNsELaGE sama N KumaRa  
GuNaWaRdHaNa)
 2.2 Last name with initial :–––––––––.
  (Write last name first and then inetial -  in English 
block capitals Eg. GuNaWaRdHaNa H. m. s. K)
 2.3 Name in full :–––––––––.
  (in sinhala /tamil)

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2016
2256
12.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department (only if 
applicable)
i declare that the applicant, mr./mrs./miss  ………… is 
an officer serving in this Department/Corporation/Board, 
working as a …..........… from………..and has earned 
all his/her increment and has not been subjected to any 
disciplinary action  within service period  and i also agree 
to release him/her from the post he/she holds in the event 
of being selected.
other comments :––––––––––.
 –––––––––––––,
         signature of Head of department.
designation :––––––––––.  
date  :––––––––––.
09–1152
––––––––––––––––
 (c) Each question paper is consisted of compulsory 
questions.
 03. Syllabus :
 03.01 Part A - Financial Regulations
  Public management structure of sri Lanka
  financial control and annual Estimates
  (Government financial Regulations - except 
the chapter x of Part 1)
  Part B - Office Systems
  directions of Establishments code
  Office Management - Following Chapters of 
the Establishments code will be covered.
  (i, ii, iV , V , Vii, ix, xii, xV , xxiii, xxVi, 
xxVii, xxx, xxxi, xxxii, xxxiii)
 
 03.02 Gender socialization and Women's rights 
  discrimi nation against women
  Gender socialization in the sri Lanka society
  Women's charter and Women's right.
 03.03 sociology and Psychological counseling
  Rural sociology 
  urbanization of sri Lanka
  Rural development 
  basic features and ethics of psychological 
counseling
  woman and mental stress
  counseling movement and opportunities in 
sri Lanka
 04. application forms should be prepared as per the 
specimen appended at the end of this notice, on a a4 Paper 
using both sides and items from 01-06 to appear on the first 
page and from 07 onwards on the other pages and it should 
be filled by the candidate's own legible handwriting.
Name of the examination should be written on the top 
left hand corner of the envelope containing the application 
in English Language, in addition to the sinhala or tamil 
Languages.
the designation and the service station of the applicant 
at the time of applying for the examination are applicable 
in respect of the matters pertaining to the examination 
and any requests for alterations after furnishing of the 
application will not be entertained.
fIRST EffICIENCy bAR ExAmINATION 
fOR WOmEN DEVELOPmENT OffICERS 
Of ThE mINISTRy Of WOmEN AND ChILD 
AffAIRS - 2016
tHE First Efficiency Bar Examination for Women 
Development Officers of the Ministry of Women and 
child affairs will be held by the commissioner General 
of Examinations in december, 2016, at colombo. Notice 
is hereby given that the closing date of the applications for 
this examinations is 24.10.2016.
 02. examination Procedure.– This Efficiency Bar 
Examination will be consisted of following subjects. 
the examination will be conducted in sinhala and tamil 
medium. Permission will not be given to change the 
medium of language after furnishing the application.
subject No 01 - financial Regulations  (two hours) 
 and Office Systems (100 marks)
subject No 02 - Gender socialization    do.
  and Women's rights           
subject No. 03 - sociology and psycho-   do.
  logical counseling     
Note -
 (a)  Officers can sit all the subjects in one occasion 
or separate occasions if they so desire,
 (b) applicants should score 40 marks or more for 
each paper to qualify,

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2016
2257
05. applications should be sent by registered post 
through the departmental Head (eg : through the divisional 
secretary, in case of a divisional secretariat) to  reach the 
commissioner General of Examinations, organization 
and foreign Examination branch, department of 
Examinations, P. o. box 1503, colombo on or before 
24.10.2016. Name of the Examination should be written 
on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing the 
application. applications which are incompleted or are not 
conformity with the specimen appended at the end of this 
notice or are received after the closing date of acceptance 
of applications are liable to reject without notice.
Every new entrant officer, for the purpose of Official 
Languages Policy, should submit their applications in 
official language or in Tamil or English Language through 
which they enter the service.
06. (i) immediately  after admission cards are dispatched 
to the respective applicants, a notification to that 
effect will be published in the news papers by the 
department of Examinations, sri Lanka. if any 
candidate does not receive the admission card 
within two or three days after the appearance 
of the paper notification they should inform 
the same to the department of Examination as 
instructed in the notification. Such applicants 
should inform the department of Examinations 
about the non - receipt of the admission card 
with a photo copy of the application retained 
by you and the receipt issued on payment of 
Examination fee and your full name, address, 
Nic number and the name of the examination. 
in case of an appeal from out station, a fax 
number should be indicated in order to send the 
admission card.
 (ii) an applican t presenting herself for the 
examination must produse her admission card 
with attestation of signature to the supervisor of 
the examination center. 
 (iii) issuing of an admission card to an applicant 
shall not be in any way treated as that the 
applicant had satisfied all the qualifications to 
sit for the examination.
 07. Identity.– applicants will be required to prove their 
identity at the Examination Hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor for each subject they appear. for this purpose 
any of the following documents will be accepted.
 (i) Valid Nic card issued by the commissioner of 
the department of Registration of Persons,
 (ii) Valid Passport.
  the commissioner General of Examination 
reserves the right to cancel or reject the 
candidature of the applicant who fails to produce 
any of the documents mentioned above.
 08. examination Fee.– applicant who sit for the 
examination will be required to pay the examination fee on 
the basis set out below.
       examination Fee Rs. cts.
  
  (a) Fees will not be charged for the first sitting  – 
 (b) for the whole examination for each 
  subsequent sitting 400 0
 (c) Per subject  150 0
the relevant examination fee should be paid to the 
credit of Revenue Head 13/02/1003 of the commissioner 
General of Examinations at any post office/sub post office 
and the receipt obtained should be securely affixed to the 
relevent cage of the application and any other mode of 
postal/ money orders will not be accepted. the fee will 
not be refunded or transferred for another examination 
on any reason. Please retain a copy of the receipt for the 
examination fee.
09. (i) the Examination will be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations and 
all candidates will be required to abide by 
the rules and regulations laid down by him in 
connection with this examination. if such rules 
or regulations are violated, he/she will be liable 
to a punishment imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations.
 (ii) Results sheet of the applicants who sat for 
the examination will be handed over to the 
secretary to the ministry of Women & child 
affairs.
10. Officers who qualified to sit for the examination and 
got admission cards should be granted duty leave.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2016
2258
 11. any matters not covered by these regulations will be 
dealt with the discretion of the secretary to the ministry of 
Women and child affairs.
 secretary, 
 ministry of Women and child affairs.
ministry of Women and child affairs,
5th floor,
sethsiripaya, 2nd stage,
battaramulla.
15th september, 2016. 
Application
fiRst EfficiENcy baR ExamiNatioN foR 
WomEN dEVELoPmENt officERs of 
miNistRy of WomEN aNd cHiLd affaiRs - 2016
medium of Language :
sinhala  - 2
tamil    - 3
(Please write the relevant number in the cage)
01.
 1.1 full Name (in English block capitals) :––––––––.
  (eg.: HERatH  mudiyaNsELaGE  samaN  
KumaRa GuNaWaRdHaNa)
 1.2 Name (indicate the last name first and the initials 
of the other names thereafter)  in English block 
capitals) :–––––––––––.
 1.3 Name in full (sinhala/tamil)  :–––––––––––.
 1.4 National identity card No. :
02.  Official Address :––––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
 2.1 Official Address  :–––––––––––.
  (sinhala/t amil)
 2.2 address to which the admissions should be sent  
:–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
 2.3 t elephone No.  :–––––––––––.
03.  sex :
 3.1 female  - 1     
  male  - 0 
  (Write the relevant number in the cage)
 3.2 marital status :
  married  - 1     
  unmarried  - 2  
  (Write the relevant number in the cage)
 3.3 date of birth :
  y ear                   month           date 
 3.4 age as at the closing date of application (24.10.2016) :
  y ears       months     days
04. date of appointment to the post of women development 
Officer in the ministry of Women and child affairs 
- (the date on which the appointment was actually 
taken up) :–––––––––––.
05. are you an old or / new entrant for the purpose of 
Official Language Policy :–––––––––––.
06. Name of the department (in case of a divisional 
secretariat please mention) :–––––––––––.
07. applied subjects and the relevant numbers (as 
mentioned in the 2nd paragraph of the Gazzette 
Notification) :–––––––––––.
 Subject Subject No
 1....................................
 2....................................
 3.....................................
08.  Is this first sitting for the examination ? :––––––––––.
09. details of the receipt obtained for payment of 
examination fee :
 (i)  Post Office :–––––––––––.
 (ii) Receipt No. and date :–––––––––––.
 (iii) date of Payment :–––––––––––.
      
Affix the receipt here 
(Please retain a Photocopy of the receipt)
10. i do hereby declare that the above information are true 
and correct and I am qualified to sit the examination 
in the abovementioned medium of language and 
i am bound to act in conformity with the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations relating to conducting of the 
examination and to the decisions taken at the issuing 
of the results.
date :–––––––––––.
 signature of the applicant :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2016
2259
Note.- applicant should sign before the Head of the 
Department or an authorized Officer.
Attestation of the Signature of the Applicant
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss. ............................
...........................................an officer of my office who is 
personally known to me signed before me.
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
signature :–––––––––––.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  sRi  LaNKa.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
i hereby certify that i checked the abovementioned 
particulars and those are correct and the examination fee 
has been paid and the receipt has been affixed and this is 
the first sitting of the applicant and she has qualified to sit 
for this examination.
signature of the Head of the dept. :––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––. 
09-1133