

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1615
1615
wxl 1"876 - 2014 wf.daia;= ui 15 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'08'15
No. 1,876 – FRIDAY , AUGUST 15, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1618
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1644
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 05th September, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22nd
August, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note.— Local Authorities Filling of Vacancies (Special Provisions) (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 01, 2014.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1616
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1617
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1618
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
GAMPAHA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 15th of September,
2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Gampaha Attanagalla Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Wathupitiwala Base Hospital General, District Secretariat,
Gampaha.
Gampaha Divulapitiya Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Aluthkuru Korale North and Birth General, District Secretariat,
and Deaths of Godakaha Division Gampaha.
08–563
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
MATALE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1619
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 09th of September,
2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
25th July, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Matale Dambulla Post of Medical Registrar of Births District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Deaths of Dambulla Town General, District Secretariat,
Division Matale.
08–566
––––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  REGULAR/VOLUNTEER  AIR  FORCE
Airmen/Airwomen Vacancies
VACANCIES exist in the Regular/V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka
Air Force for Airmen/Airwomen.
1. (a) Trades and Educational Qualifications Required :–
Regular
(1) Physical Trainer (Male/Female) :
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination
at not more than two sittings (additional and optional
subjects not considered) including an ordinary pass in
Sinhala/Tamil langauge.
Due consideration will be given outstanding
achievements in the National Level Sprots of Athletics.
(2) Nursing Assistant (Male/Female), Dental Assistant
(Male) :
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination
at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including ordinary pass in
English language and credit passes in Sinhala/Tamil
language, Mathematics, Science and one other subject.
Having three passes at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination
from Science Stream in one sitting will be an added
advantage for selection and a qualification for advance
training under Ministry of Health Services.
Direct Entry - V olunteer (Male/Female) :
(3) Operation Theater Technician :
Trade Qualification (Operation Theater Technician at
Government Nursing School) :
Complete 02 years Operation Theatre Technicians
Course at Government Nurisng School

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1620
Experience.– 02 years (in a reputed hospital Sri Lanka
or foreign country).
Trade Qualification (Operation Theater Technician at
Private Nursing School) :
Complete 02 years Operation Theatre Technicians
training at Private Nursing School as a Qualified
Operation Theatre Technician.
Experience .– 02 years experience as an Operation
Theatre Technician (in a reputed hospital Sri Lanka or
foreign country).
(4) Operation Theater Nurses  :
Trade Qualification (Operation Theater Nurses at
Government Nursing School) :
Complete 03 years nursing course at Government NTS
and who have registered in medical council as qualified
nurses. Complete operation theater nursing course at
post basic school of nursing Colombo or minimum of
03 years Theater experience.
Experience.– 02 years (in a reputed hospital Sri Lanka
or foreign country).
Trade Qualification (Operation Theater Nurses at
Private Nursing School) :
Minimum 03 years theater experience or complete 03
years nurisng course at private nursing school and
complete operation theater course with 02 years
experience.
Experience.– 02 year experience as Operation Theatre
Nurse (in a reputed hospital Sri Lanka or foreign
country).
(5) Intensive Care Unit Nurses :
Trade Qualification (Intensive Care Unit Nurses at
Government Nursing School)  :
Complete 03 year nursing course at Government NTS
and who have registered in medical council as qualified
nurses. Complete operation theater nursing course at
post basic school of nursing Colombo.
Experience.– 02 years (in a reputed hospital Sri Lanka
or foreign country).
Trade Qualification (Intensive Care Unit Nurses at
Private Nursing School) :
Minimum 03 years theater experience or complete 03
years nursing course at a private nursing school and
complete operation theater course with 02 years
experience.
Experience .– 02 years experience as an Operation
Theatre Nurse (At a reputed hospital Sri Lanka or foreign
country).
(b) Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfill the following
general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular/
V olunteer  Air Force :–
(1) Nationality : Must be a Citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(2) Age : Years as at 31st August, 2014 ;
Regular : Male Not less than 18 years and
not more than 23 years,
Regular : Female Not less than 18 years and
not more than 22 years,
V olunteer : Male Not less than 18 years and
not more than 37 years,
V olunteer : Female Not less than 18 years and
not more than 30 years,
(3) Height :
Regular (Male) : 5 feet 5 inches and above ;
Regular (Female) : 5 feet 3 inches and above ;
V olunteer (Male) : 5 feet 4 inches and above ;
V olunteer (female) : 5 feet 2 inches and above ;
(4) Weight : 17< Body Mass Index < 26 (Male)
17<Body Mass Index <25 (Female)
BMI  = 
Weight (kg)  
Height2 (m)
(5) Vision Colour Standard : CP 2
(6) Visual Acuity : Regular Male/Female 6/6 each eye
(without spectacles)
V olunteer Male/Female (With or
without spectacles)
(7)  Civil Status : Regular - Male/Female - unmarried
V olunteer - Male/Female -
(Married/Unmarried)
(a) Candidates must be unmarried. (Airmen are not
allowed to marry until the completion of two years
from the date of enlistment and until one year after
the completion of the Basic Trade Training Course
and which ever is later).
(b) Unmarried Volunteer candidates is not allowed to
marry until the completion of Combat Training
Course.
2. Candidates who do not possess the required Educational
Qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 01 "a" and
"b" will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview the height,
weight and vision will be measured. Candidates whose height, weight
and vision is below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification
and who have no exceptional skills will not be interviewed. Any
candidate who may have a special skill or value to the service may
at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered
even though he/she may not have the requisite height provided he/
she possess the requisite academic and professional qualifications.
3. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements
in the field of sports.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1621
4. Conditions of Service :–
(a) Airmen/Airwomen will be governed by the Air Force
Act and other Air Force Regulations and Orders with
effect from the date of enlistment.
(b) Selected regular candidates will be trained in combat and
in the selected trades accordingly. They will be required
to perform combat duties and any type of duty, day and
night, even under very difficult conditions in any part of
Sri Lanka or abroad.
(c) Selected V olunteer candidates will be trained in combat.
They will be required to perform combat duties and any
type of duty, day and night, even under very difficult
conditions in any part of Sri Lanka or abroad.
5. Terms of Engagement.– Regular - (Airman/Airwomen) Selected
candidates will be enlisted to the rank of Grade III Aircraftsman in
the Regular Air Force and shall be required to serve for 12 years in
which 08 years will have to be served continuously whilst serving
a further 04 years in the Regular Air Force (Reserve) when called to
do so. Opportunities exist for suitable Airmen to extend for further
service on completion of eight years of service on the discretion of
the Commander of the Sri Lanka Air Force.
Volunteer - (Airmen/Airwomen). – Selected candidates will be
enlisted to the rank of Grade III Leading Aircraftsman/Leading
Aircraftswoman/Corporal in the V olunteer Air Froce and shall be
required to serve for 05 years continuously. Opportunities exist for
suitable Airmen/Airwomen to extend for further service on
completion of five years of service on the discretion of the
Commander of the Sri Lanka Air Force.
6. Official Language Requirements.–  The selected candidates
must confirm to the Official Language Policy of the Government of
Sri Lanka.
7. Pay and Allowances:-
(a) The scale of consolidated pay applicable to Airmen
shall be as follows :–
Aircraftman - R. 173,100 - 6 x Rs. 1,740 - 19x
Rs. 2,040 - Rs. 222,300 per annum
Leading Aircraftman - Rs. 178,320 - 4x Rs. 1,740 - 19x
Rs. 2,040 - Rs. 222,300 per annum
Corporal - Rs. 183,540 -10x Rs. 2,040 - 9 x Rs. 2,880
- Rs. 229,860 Per annum
Sergeant - Rs. 187,620 - 3 x Rs. 2,040 - 9 x Rs. 2,880 -
3 x Rs. 3,840 - Rs. 231,180 per annum
Flight Sergeant - Rs. 191,700 - 1x Rs. 2,040 - 9x
Rs. 2,880 - 3 x Rs. 3,840 - Rs. 231,180 per annum
Warrant Officer - Rs. 199,500 - 7x Rs. 2,880 - 14x
Rs. 3,840 - Rs. 273,420 per annum
Master Warrant Officer - Rs. 223,500 - 13x Rs. 3,840
- Rs. 273,420 per annum.
Pay and allowances will be paid according to the consolidated
pay scale applicable to Airmen/Airwomen increments in promotions
will be based in consideration to the service period, good conduct
and trade efficiency and will be placed in the appropriate pay scale.
(b) Other Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowances of Rs. 7,800 per month.
(2) Hardlying allowance Rs. 600 per month.
(3) Additional hard allowance - Rs. 4,500 per month for
those serving in operational areas.
(4) Special allowance - 1- Rs. 2,400 per month (Rs. 80 will
be paid for each working day).
(5) Special allowance - 2 - 15% of consolidated salary and
Rs. 375.
(6) Incentive allowances - After completion of 05 years
service (Rs. 250 to Rs. 850 per month).
(7) Ration allowance - Rs. 13,197.00 per month for living
out Airmen/Airwomen (free messing for living-in
Airmen/Airwomen).
(8) Uniform upkeep allowance - Rs. 170 per month.
(9) Interim allowances - Rs. 1,000 per month.
(10) Accommodation - Free for personnel living-in.
(11) Travelling - Three sets of holiday railway warrants
per year (for Airmen/Airwomen/Wife/Husband and
Children as applicable). One set of railway warrants
per month or the reimbursement of bus fare of living-in
Airmen/Airwomen).
(12) Disturbance allowance  - When proceeding on duty
outside permanent station. (Rates vary with married/
unmarried).
(13) Qualification pay - For personnel who have qualified
in special courses or possess qualifications, which are
of special value to the service. (Up to maximum of
Rs. 637.50 per month).
(14) Good conduct badge pay  - Paid to personnel whose
behaviour and general conduct are maintained at a high
standard. (Rs. 30 to Rs. 511 per month).
(15) Re-engagement pay  - Personnel are entitled to
Rs. 300 per month during the period of re-engagement.
(16) Medical facilities  - Provided through Air Force
expense for Airmen/Airwomen and their married
families.
(17) Free travel from residence to place of work in S. L. T.
B. buses for living-out Airmen/Airwomen within a
radius of 30 miles (48km).
(18) Following rent allowance are payable to married
Airmen/Airwomen not in occupation of Government
married quarters Rs. 1,200 - Rs. 3,300 per month.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1622
(19) Instructional pay - (Rs. 425 to Rs. 510 per month).
(20) Other allowance - (separation and overseas etc.) will
be paid as per Air Force Pay Code.
(21) Pensions/Gratuities are payable in terms of the Air
Force Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981, as amended
from time to time. All Airmen is contributors to the
Widows' and Orphans' Pensions (Armed Forces)
Scheme. Rate of contributions are as per Widows' and
Orphans' Pensions (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970).
8. Instructions to Applicants :–
(a) Applications should be in terms of the form specified
below. All cages of the application should be filled with
much details as possible.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Departments/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should bear
a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released
if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the
following documents when summoned for interviews or
when called upon to do so:-
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth (Certificate issued
for the purpose of the Education Code will not be
accepted).
(2) Certificates in support of the educational
qualifications required.
(3) Certificates of Trade/Technical training and/or
experience (if any) obtained from a recognized
institution will be an added advantage.
(4) Two recent certificates of character. One of these
should be from the Principal of the last school
attended and the other from the responsible person
who has known the  applicant for more than two
years or from the present employer (if employed).
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities and
cadetting etc.
9. Candidates considered suitable for the interview will be
required to appear for an interview. Interviews will be held at Sri
Lanka Air Force Trade Training School Ekala on 11, 12 and 13
August 2014 from 0900 hrs. to 1300 hrs. for male candidates and
14 and 15 August 2014 from 0900 hrs. to 1300 hrs for female
candidates. The candidates considered suitable for the itnerview
will be required to appear for an interview at their own expenses
before an Air Force Recruiting Board.
10. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for interviews,
he/she is to produce the National Identity Card. Candidates who do
not have the National Identity Card could produce some other form
of the accepted identification. However, candidates will not be
enlisted with out the National Identity Card.
11. Candidates likely to be suitable following their interviews
will be required to present themselves before an Air Force Medical
Board. The required number of candidates per trade will be selected
according to merit order.
12. Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do
so by giving his/her testimonial. Any form of canvassing or attempt
to influence the selection of a candidate will result in disqulaification
of such candidates.
13. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if
discovered after the selection.
14. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not
be notified.
K. A. G
UNATILLEKE,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P.O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION  FOR  AIRMEN/AIRWOMEN IN THE
SRI  LANKA  AIR FORCE
1. Full Name :––––––––––––.
(According to National Identity Card)
2. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––––.
3. Applied Trade :–––––––––––––.
4. Postal Address :–––––––––––––.
5. Permanent Address :–––––––––––––.
6. Nearest Air Force Station to permanent address :––––––––.
7. Nearest Police Station to Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
8. District :–––––––––––.
9. Electorate :–––––––––––––.
10. G.S. Division :–––––––––––––.
11. Telephone Number :–––––––––––––.
12. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
13. Age (as at 30th August 2014) :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Days :––––––––.
14. Marital State :–––––––––––––.
15. Gender :–––––––––––––.
16. Height : Feet :––––––––––. Inches :–––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1623
17. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Y ear Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
18. G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Y ear Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
19. Any special qualifications for the post :––––––––––––.
(Eg.– Technical, Training and Experience etc.)
20. Details of special achievements in sports :–––––––––––.
21. Other achievements of note at school or with outside
organizations :–––––––––––.
22. If previously applied for the Armed Forces of Police give
details :–––––––––––.
MINISTRY  OF  BOTANICAL  GARDENS  AND  PUBLIC  RECREATION
Department of National Botanic Gardens
RECRUITMENT TO THE PRIMARY SEMI SKILLED SERVICE CATEGORY (PL-2) OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF NA TIONAL BOTANIC GARDENS
APPLICATIONS are called from the Qualified Citizens of Sri Lanka for the Post of primary semi skilled service category (PL-2) i n the
Department of National Botanic Gardens that mention below.
POST AND NATURE OF THE JOB
No. Post Basic function
01 Bungalow keeper Maintain circuit bungalows which belong to the Department of National Botanic Gardens,
pleasant and tidy, prepare meals for Guests and keep income and expenditure accounts.
02 Mason Construct, repair and maintain mason works according to the approved plans and estimates.
03 Carpenter Construct, repair and maintain carpentry works according to the standards and specifications.
04 Motor mechanic Check, record and do repairs of Department of National Botanical Gardens’ Motor vehicles and
fuel used machines and equipments.
05 Electrician All fixing, repairing and maintenance of electrical works of Department’s offices, circuits and
other buildings.
06 Budder All budding activities to foliage plants, flower plants and other plants in the nurseries and
experimenting new methods.
07 Label writer Preparation of the name boards which indicate places, plants in the gardens in trilingual and fix
and maintain those.
23. Have you been convicted or bound over by a Civil or Military
Court ? If so, give details :–––––––––––.
24. Particulars of Testimonials :
Name Description Permanent Address
25. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I declare on my honour that the answers given to the above
questions are to the best of my knowledge and belief are correct. I
have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and
the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected as Airwomen in the Sri Lanka Regular/V olunteer Air Force
pubilshed in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
08–578

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1624
Vacancies are in – Hambanthota, Colombo, Gampaha, Kandy,
Nuwara eliya districts
02. Service Conditions .– The selected candidates shall be
appointed to Grade III of the Service on the following conditions.
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable.
(ii) The employment is subjected to a probation period of
three years from the date of appointment.
(iii) The Selected officers are required to comply with the
provisions of the constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka, Establishment Code, Financial
Regulations,  National Language Policy, Government
circulars & Procedural Rules of Public Service
Commission, Departmental orders and any other orders
that are already issued or which may be issued by the
government from time to time.
(iv) The officer should pass the 1
st Efficiency Bar Examination
within three years from the date of appointment in grade
III.
(v) The relevant proficiency level of the second official
language should be acquired as per the provisions of Public
Administration circular 07/2007 dated 28.05.2007.
(vi) Should comply to work at anywhere within the
Department if needed.
03. Salary Scale :
(i) Salary code number – PL2 -2006 (A)
(ii) Salary Scale – Rs:12,210 – 10 x 130– 10 x 145 – 10 x 160
– 12 x 170– Rs. 18,600 (According to Public
Administration Circular No. 6/2006 (IV) )
04. Qualifications:
4.1 (i) Educational Qualifications:
Should have passed G .C.E (O/L) in six (06) subjects
at least with two credit passes in less than two
sittings.
(ii) Professional Qualification:
Should have obtain at least level 02 qualification of
National Vocational Qualification (NVQ) standards
relevant to the respective field as determined by the
Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission.
(iii) Experience:
Should have 03 years of work experience relevant to
the duties of the applied post at a recognized
organization (should be certified by written
documents.)
4.2 Other Qualifications :
I. Be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
II. Should possess an excellent character.
III. Applicants should have fulfilled all qualifications as
mentioned in above 4.1 (i) and 4.1 (ii) required for
recruitment to the post at the closing date of
applications as mentioned in this Gazette notification.
IV . Every applicant should be in good mental and
physical order to serve in any part of the island and
shall get through a government medical examination.
V . Should not be less than 18 years and more than 45
years of age at the closing date of the applications.
(Age limit is not applicable to the applicants who
are already confirmed in the Government Service).
05. Method of Applying.– The application should be prepared in
the form of specimen appended to this notification using A4 size
(8 ½" x 12") paper using both sides. Duly completed application
should be forwarded through registered post addressed to "The
Director General, Department of National Botanic Gardens, P.O
Box 14,Peradeniya" to reach on or before 05th September, 2014.
The post applied should be written on the left hand top corner of
the envelope enclosing the application. To apply more than one
post, use separate application for each.
06. Method of Selection .– By a structured interview and a
professional test.
07. Marks will be allocated to additional educational
qualifications, language proficiency, experience and performance at
the structured interview. Skills will be checked by a professional
practical test. Incomplete applications in any manner will be rejected
and applications received after the closing date will not be accepted.
Director General, Department of National Botanic Gardens Who
reserves the right to make all decisions.
Dr. D.S.A. W
IJESUNDARA,
Director General
Department of National Botanic Gardens.
30th July, 2014
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
MINISTRY OF BOTANIC GARDENS AND PUBLIC
RECREATION
DEPARTMENT OF NATIONAL BOTANIC GARDENS
(Office use only)
Application for open recruitment to the primary semi skilled
service category (PL-2) for the Department of National
Botanic Gardens
01. Tick ( 3) the relevant post which you are applied for ( if you
are applying for more than one post,  please use separate
application form)
01. Bungalow keeper
02. Mason
03. Carpenter
04. Motor mechanic
05. Electrician
06. Budder
07. Label writer

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1625
02. Name with initials (In English Block Capitals) Mr./ Mrs./Miss
:–––––––––––––.
03. Name in full (In English Block Capitals) :–––––––––––––.
04. National Identity card No. :–––––––––––––.
05. Permanent Address :–––––––––––––.
06. Postal Address (In English Block Capitals) :–––––––––––––.
07.  7.1 Date of Birth :–––––––––––––.
7.2  Age as at the closing date of applications:
Years : Months : Days :
08. Gender :
1 – Female 2– Male
09. Civil Status :
1 – Married      2 – Unmarried
10. Medium (Language) for interviews :
(Sinhala – 1, Tamil – 2, English – 3)
11. Telephone No. (if available) :–––––––––––––.
12. Qualifications :
12.1 Educational Qualifications:
Particulars of the G.C.E. (O/L) examination :
First sitting :
o Year and the medium of the examination :––––––––.
o Index Number :–––––––––––––.
o Result of the examination:
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
Candidates who passed the exam in second sitting please
mention result by using same format again.
12.2 Professional Qualifications:
o Acquired Professional Qualifications :––––––––––.
o Time duration :–––––––––––––.
o Effective date :–––––––––––––.
o Relevant Institution :–––––––––––––.
12.3 Other Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
12.4 Experience: (Nature of the jobs, Time duration, relevant
institute  etc.)  :–––––––––––––.
13.  For the Candidates who already serve in the Public Service :
13.1. Current post and Grade :–––––––––––––.
13.2. Current work place :–––––––––––––.
13.3. Date of first appointment :–––––––––––––.
13.4. within recent 5 years
(i) Subject to any disciplinary action   YES/NO
(ii) No pay leave YES/NO
14. Declaration of the candidate:
I do here by declare that the particulars furnished above are true
and accurate to the best of my knowledge and belief. I also declare
that I have not been dismissed or treated as a person, vacated the
post from Public Service. Further I agree to be bound by the rules
and regulation imposed by the Director General, Department of
National Botanical Gardens who reserves the right to make all
decisions with regard to the appointment and place of work of this
post.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date:–––––––––––––.
15. For the candidates who already serve in the Public Serivce :
Certificate of the Head of Department
I forward here with the application of Mr./Mrs./Miss
……………. Who is currently serving in this Ministry/Department
as a permanent/temporary …………………… officer  and she/he
is able/unable to do the above post.  If selected she/he can be
released from the current post of the ministry/Department.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of head of Department and
Official Frank.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :–––––––––––––.
08–559

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1626
JUDICIAL  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Applications are called in terms of the Muslim Marriage
and Divorce Act (Chapter 115) for the recruitment of
Quazis for the areas indicated in the following Schedule
PERSONS with following qualifications may apply.
Any Muslim male who is a graduate of a recognized University
or a Moulavi holding a certificate from an institution recognized by
the Ministry in charge of Muslim Religions and Cultural Affairs or a
holder of the Al-Alim certificate issued by the Department of
Education or an Attorney-at-Law or a holder of other similar
qualification or a retired public servant who has held office in staff
grade.
A person currently holding a permanent post in the public service
shall not be eligible to apply.
Applicants should be married persons over 40 years, should be
physically fit and of good character and standing in the community
and possessing a sound knowledge of the law relating to Muslim
Marriage and Divorce.
The selected candidate will be appointed for a period, which will
be specified in the letter of appointment.
It is a legal requirement that a Quazi should reside in the area for
which he is appointed.
A Quazi will be paid a monthly allowance of Rs. 6,000 and an all
exclusive allowance of Rs. 5,000 per month for the cost of support
services, stationary and postal expenses.
Applications, as per specimen below, should be sent by
Registered Post to reach me on or before 14th September, 2014 with
word 'Quazi' written on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
Originals of documents should not be forwarded with the application.
W. K. D. W
IJERATHNE,
Senior Assistant Secretary for Secretary,
Judicial Service Commission.
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat,
P. O. Box. 573,
Colombo 12,
22nd July, 2014.
SCHEDULE
01. Hambantota - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Zone of
Hambantota under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
02. Colombo West - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in Dehiwala, Mount -
Lavinia, Ratmalana, Nugegoda, Papiliyana, Maharagama,
Pannipitiya, Homagama, Polgasovita, Ingiriya, Rajagiriya,
Battaramulla and Athurugiriya areas in the Colombo Judicial
Division under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce
Act.
03. Akurana - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in Akurana D. S. Division in
Kandy District under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
 A
PPLICATION FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF QUAZI UNDER THE MUSLIM MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE ACT (CHAPTER 115) AS AMENDED BY ACTS,
NO. 1 OF 1965 AND NO. 32 OF 1969, FOR THE ........................................... QUAZI DIVISION
1. Full Name  :
2. Name with Initial :
3. Permanent Residence :
4. Postal Address :

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1627
5. Date of Birth :
6. Age :
7. Race :
8. Religion :
9. N. I. C. No. :
10. Telephone No. :
11. Educational Qualifications :
12. Professional Qualifications :
13. Languages which the applicant can read and write :
14. Does the Applicant posses knowledge of Muslim Law ? :
15. Is he Married ? :
16. Are you an Attorney at Law ? If so, date of enrolment ? :
17. Past and Present Occupations (with date) :
From To Occupation
18. Value of Possessed by Applicant : Rs.
19. Monthly Income : Rs.
20. Amount of debts if any : Rs.
21. Were you actively engaged in politics during the last ten years ? :

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1628
22. Are you an income tax payer ? :
23. Were there criminal cases against you ? or are there any pending criminal cases ? :
24. Particulars of Court convictions if any :
25. Personal referees (They should be responsible person who known you well) :
(1) (2)
Name : Name :
Address : Address :
Occupation : Occupation :
Period during which he has known you : Period during which he has known you :
I certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
Note :  Attach all copies of the relevant certificates with this.
08–476
–––––––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
Post of Police Constable
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for the
Post of Recruit Police Constable in the Sri Lanka Police Department.
2. Application forms duly perfected in accordance with the
specimen form given below should be sent to Director/Recruitment,
Recruiting Office, No. 375, Sambuddathwa Jayanthi Mawatha,
Colombo 06. The application should be sent by registered post to
the above-mentioned address to reach on or before 15.10.2014 and
the post applied for should be marked on the top left hand corner of
the envelope enclosing the application. Delayed applications will
be rejected and no applications will be issued by Sri Lanka Police
Department.
3. Salary Scale :
 Rs. 171,360 - 7 x 1,740 - 10 x 2,160 - 17x2,880 - Rs. 254,100.
Further, these officers are entitled to cost of living allowance
paid to other public officers and the allowance granted in accordance
with the Public Administration Circular No. 31/11 dated 12.12.2011.
In addition to the above salary scale, they will be paid following
monthly allowances :
Rs. cts.
(a) Arduous duty allowances 2,000 0
(b) Combined allowances :
(1) For performance of duties in 10,500 0
North and East areas
(2) For performance of duties in other areas 8,400 0
(c) Free transport facilities.
(d) Free medical facilities to officers  (Financial assistance
can be obtained for medical treatment even in a foreign
country.).
(e) All uniforms will be provided free of charge.
(f) Facilities to imporve their skills and talents in sports.
(g) Travelling expenses for duty and money will be granted
as rewards for outstanding and arduous duties.
04. Basic Qualifications :
(a) Age Limits.– The age should be in between 18 and 28
years as at closing date 15.10.2014 as per the Gazette
Notification. However Security Assistants Service

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1629
personal who are serving in the Police Department are
eligible to apply up to the age of 30 years as at the
closing date of applications.
(b) Educational qualifications :
Should have passed in 06 subjects including
Mathematics and Medium Language in not more than
two attempts at the G . C. E. (O/L) examination.
Applicants who are qualified within two attempts
should have passed at least 05 subjects at the first
attempt.
Note 01.– According to the classification of subjects by the
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, number
of subjects passed at the examination will be
decided by considering the two science subjects
bearing Numbers 41, 44 as one subject and the
two Mathematics subjects bearing Numbers 42
and 45 as one subject.
Note 02.– Failure in the Technical subjects at written test
of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination will be considered
as failure in the same subject although a pass has
been obtained for the same subject in the Practical
Test.
Note 03.– Since optional subjects of Tamil, English and
Sinhala have not been included in the stream of
G . C. E. (O/L) passes in any of these subjects
will not be computed as a pass in the G . C. E.
(O/L) Examination.
(c) Physical Requirements :
* Height 05 feet 04 inches (minimum).
* Chest 30 inches (minimum/in exhalation).
Note.– Applicants who are slightly short of the physical
requirements, but fulfill the other stipulated
qualifications will be eligible at the discretion of
Inspector General of Police provided that they have
skills in sports or have achieved best performance
in sports at national level or they have earned
reputation for Sri Lanka by participating in an
international competition.
(d) Visual Requirement .– Vision should not be less than
6/12 with each eye, if the vision is of 6/6 with one eye
and 6/18 with the other eye it will be accepted. Colour
vision should be normal. Applicants wearing spectacles
or contact lenses will not be eligible.
(e) Other Qualifications :
Applicants should be unmarried (Divorce will be
considered as married). Only this condition will not
apply for those who have fulfilled the other
qualifications and presently serving in the Police
Department as Security Assistants.
5. Method of Recruitment. – Selected applicants will have to
pass in the Basic Qualification Test conducted by the Department
of Police. Only those who have passed this test must also get
through the physical fitness test such as endurance test :
1,000 meters  – 03 minutes   44 seconds
Only those who are successful in the physical fitness such
as endurance test will be called for final interview. Only
those who score 40% or more will be called for the written
test.
* The written test consists of two question papers :–
* An essay paper ; not less than 500 words within 45
minutes.
* General Knowledge and Intelligence test paper - 1 hour.
6. Medical Test.– Applicant must be passed in the medical test
before obtain his appointment. Meidcal test is an only one part of
the course of action, with regard to the recrutiment process. Selection
will be made among the applicants who have passed in the medical
test, considering the number of existing vacancies and the position
in the list pertaining to the merit and skill. Those who have failed in
the medical test will be rejected.
7. Background Inquiries  :
(a) In view of confirm the conduct of the applicant inquiries
will be made on the conduct of the applicant, close
relations and friends. If the applicant with the adverse
reports he will be rejected for recruitment ;
(b) Providing false information will make the applicant
ineligible. If the false information is elicited after the
appointment, the applicants will be dismissed from the
service.
8. Implementation of Official Language Policy :
* As per the Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007
dated 28.04.2007 issued by the Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs, all officers recruited
to the Public/Provincial Service with effect from
01.07.2007 should acquire proficiency in the other official
language within a period of 05 years in addition to the
official language through which they entered to the service.
* Officers recruited below the rank of an Assistant
Superintendent of Police from 01.07.2007 should pass
the language test of secondary level conducted by the
Department of Official Language.
* The salary increments of those who fail to pass the second
official language within 5 years from the date of
appointment will be deferred until a pass is obtained.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1630
9. Terms of Engagement. – This post is permanent and
pensionable. You are liable to contribute to the Widows'/Widowers'
and Orphans' Pension Scheme.
10. Conditions of Service :
(a) This appointment is subject to a recruit period of three
years ;
(b) The selected applicants will be required to comply with
any rules already made or may hereinafter be made to
give effect to the official language policy of the
Government ;
(c) They will be subjected to the relevant provisions of the
Establishment Code V olume I and II, Financial Regulations,
Departmental Orders and any other orders that may be
issued by the Inspector General of Police or by the
Government from time to time ;
(d) Prior to their confirmation, of post every officer will be
required to pass the prescribed Departmental
Examinations. Those who fail to pass the prescribed
examinations or found to be unfit for Police duties are
liable to dismiss from the Service ;
(e) Permission will not be granted to the selected officers to
marry prior to being confirmed in the said rank without
the permission of the Inspector General of Police :
However, in terms of P. G. II No. 41 dated 28.02.1973
and I. G. P.'s Circular, No. 1952/2006 of 19.10.2006 and
Circular (amended) dated 09.08.2007, it is possible to
marry showing special reasons and with permission of
Inspector General of Police ;
(f) Applicants on being appointed and after the training
should serve a recruit period of three years in the Police
Department and if they wish to resign from service before
their recruit period is over, they should sign an agreement
of consent to the effect that they are willing to pay at the
time of tendering their resignation, any amount which
was incurred on the training and uniforms etc., together
with any other prescribed payments. Director of Police
Training College will decide it having calculated due from
the applicants. The acceptance of resignation should
conform to the Section 4, Chapter V of V olume I of the
Establishment Code, 1985 ;
(g) Immediately after Recruit Police Constables have
commenced their training at the Police Training College,
they should take affirmation/oath to the effect that they
comply with the Police Code of conduct in terms of the
I. G. P.’s Circular, No. 1693/2003 ;
(h) Immediately after Recruit Police Constables have
commencement their training at the Police College, they
should take the Oath of allegiance to the Public Service,
in terms of the I.G.P.'s Circular, No. 1804/2004 ;
(i) Recruit Police Constables who have been confirmed in
the post will have opportunities for promotions in terms
of the approved scheme of promotions of the Police
Department.
11. (a) Attention is invited to the general conditions applicable
to appointments to the posts in the Public Service
published in the Section (IIA) of the Part I of this Gazette ;
(b) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public Administration
Circular, No. 15/90 dated 10.03.1990.
12. Applicants should annex copies of the following documents
to their applications (originals must not be forwarded) :
(i) Birth Certificate ;
(ii) Two recent testimonials of character (obtained from
persons who are not related) ;
(iii) Certificates substantiating educational qualifications ;
(iv) Certificates substantiating any outstanding sports or
other extra curricular activities ;
(v) A photocopy of certificates of services (if available) ;
(vi) A photocopy of the Identity Card.
13. (a) Applicants who are already in the Public Service must
forwarded their applications through the Heads of their
respective Departments and they must be accompanied
with a certificate stating that the officer can be released if
selected.
(b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their own
hand writing on paper 11" x 8" in size and post them
together with the copies of certificates called for to the
address given in paragraph two (2) and under no
circumstances should applications be handed over
personally to any officer in the Department.
14. Applications which do not conform to the requirements
stipulated in this notification will be rejected and such applicants
will not be notified.
Note.– No travelling or other expenses will be paid to
applicants who are summoned for the test and interview.
N. K. I
LLANGAKOON,
Inspector General of Police.
SRI LANKA POLICE DEPARTMENT
POST OF RECRUIT POLICE CONSTABLE
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
01. ( a) Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––.
(As stated in the applicant's birth certificate)

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1631
(b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
(c) Post applied for :––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
(Photocopy of the NIC should de attached)
03. Father's name in full :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
Divisional Secretariat to which the place of birth belongs :
––––––––.
Province :––––––––––.
05. ( a) Present address :––––––––––.
(b) Police Station to which the present address belongs :
––––––––––.
(c) Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(d) Police Station to which the permanent address belongs :
––––––––––.
(e) Grama Niladari's Division to which permanent address
belongs :––––––––––.
Divisional Secretariat :––––––––––.
(g) Telephone No. (Residence) :––––––––––.
Mobile No. :––––––––––.
06. ( a) Nationality :––––––––––.
(b) Whether you are a citizen by birth or registration :––––.
(If by registration attach copies of certificate)
(c) If you are a citizen by birth state the place of birth :–
(i) Applicant :––––––––––.
(ii) Applicant's father :––––––––––.
(iii) Applicant's paternal grandfather :––––––––––.
(iv) Applicant's paternal great grandfather :––––––––.
07. Date of Birth :––––––––––. (Copy of the birth certificate should
be attached)
Age : (As at the closing date of application as stated in the
Gazette):
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
08. Height : Feet :––––––––––.  Inches :––––––––––.
Chest (inches) :––––––––––.
09. Educational Qualifications (Copies of the certificates should
be attached) :––––––––––.
10. Additional Qualifications (Copies of the certificates should be
attached) :–––––––––.
11. Whether married or single :––––––––––.
12. ( a) Present employment :––––––––––.
(b) Are you a member of the armed forces ? :––––––––––.
13. Do you have any special skills and/or qualifications ? :––––––.
14. Give names and addresses of two referees to inquire the
applicant :
(a) ––––––––––.
(b) ––––––––––.
15. ( a) Have you ever applied for a post in the Reserve Police
Service or Regular Police Service  (If so give reference) :
––––––––––.
(b) Have you served in the Regular Police Service or in the
Sri Lanka Reserve Police Service before ? (If so, under
what circumstances did you leave the service ? Give
details) :––––––––––.
16. Are you a member of the Sri Lanka Police Reserve ? If so give
date of appointment, Rank and number. Attach a copy of the
appointment letter :––––––––––.
17. ( a) Are you serving in any armed service ? (If so your
application must be submitted through the respective
commander of the respecting Service) :––––––––––.
(b
) Have you served in any of the Armed service ? (If so
attach copy of your discharge certificate) :––––––––––.
18. ( a) Are you serving as a V olunteer in any of the Armed
Service ? (If so, your application must be submitted
through the respective Service Commander) :––––––––.
(b) Have you served in any of the V olunteer Armed service ?
:–––––––.
(If so attach copy of your discharge certificate)
19. Have you been involved in or concerned in or charged or arrested
even on suspicion and or convicted of any offence ? (If so give
details) :––––––––––.
20. Have any of your relatives been involved or concerned in or
charged or arrested even on suspicion and or convicted of any
offence ? (If so give details) :––––––––––.
I hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct to
the best of my knowledge and belief. If the particulars furnished are
found to be incorrect or fake, I am aware that I am liable for immediate
termination of my service in the Police Department at any time
even though I have been appointed to the post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
08–644

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1632
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Recruitment of Graduates for Sinhala and Tamil Medium
Teacher Vacancies in the Sri Lanka Teaching Service
Grade 3-1 for the subjects of Biosystems Technology and
Science for Technology in the New Technology Stream at
G. C. E. (Advanced Level)
APPLICATIONS are called from qualified graduates for Sinhala
and Tamil medium Teacher vacancies in the Sri Lanka teachers
Service Grade 3-1 according to the teachers service minute for the
subjects of Biosystems Technology and Science for Technology in
the New Technology Stream at G. C. E. (Advanced Level) at the
Secondary schools with Mahindodaya Technology Laboratories
for the development of children of the nation.
01. Qualifications  :
1.1 General Qualifications :
(i) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Should have a good character and should have good
mental and physical health.
(iii) Should not be less than 18 or more than 35 years of
age on 15.09.2014.
1.2 Educational Qualifications :
(i) I Should have obtained a degree approved by the
University Grants Commission in the relevant subject
on which the application is forwarded, by 15.09.2014
according to the Sri Lanka Teachers Service Minute.
Accordingly Graduates applying for Biosystems
Technology subject should have obtained a degree in
Agriculture.
Graduates applying for Science for Technology
subject should have offered Physics as a main subject
for their degree.
(ii) Should have passed G . C. E. (O/L) and G. C. E. (A/L)
according to accepted policies of the Ministry of
Education and stated below :
* Should have passed G . C. E. (Ordinary Level)
examination with Mother Tongue and Mathematics
and passing in six subjects with 03 credit passes in
not more than two sittings ; and
* Passed in 03 subjects at the G . C. E. (Advanced Level)
in one and the same sitting.
Note.– Those who have passed at an examination equivalent
to the G. C. E. (O/L) and G. C. E. (A/L) Local and
Overseas examinations which are acceptable by the
Commissioner General of Examinations can also
apply.
02. Method of Recruitment and Service Conditions :
2.1 According to this notification, if the number of applicants
exceed the number of vacancies, the appointing authority
will direct to hold a competitive examination and those
who qualify according to the priority list prepared on
the total number of marks scored and on School based
basis, appointments will be given according to the number
of vacancies available. Applicants who do not have the
qualifications mentioned in this notice will not be called
for the interview.
2.2 A competitive examination will not be held if the number
appleid is less than the number of vacancies. Applicants
will only be subjected to a qualifying examination for
absorption to the Teacher Service.
2.3 Appointments will be given only to the schools
mentioned in Annex 1 where vacancies exist, and only
those applicants who are willing to serve in them should
apply.
Note.– If the number of applicants exceeds the number of
vacancies in a school, priority will be given according to
the total number of marks scored at the competitive
examination. If several candidates who have applied to a
particular school have got the same marks, then priority
will be given according to the distance to the school.
Applciants who satisfy these criteria will be recruited.
Annex 1
TEACHER VACANCIES IN THE SINHALA MEDIUM
B
IOSYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY SUBJECT
Province Serial Name of  School Address T eacher
No. Vacancies
Eastern North Central 1 Polwatte Maha Vidyalaya Polwaga Colany Ampara 1
2 Kebithigollewa Maha Vidyalaya Kebithigollewa 1
3 Vidyadarsha Maha Vidyalaya Nochchiyagama 1
4 Medirigiriya National School Medirigiriya 1
5 Leelaratne Maha Vidyalaya Hansayapalama 1

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1633
6 Welikanda Maha Vidyalaya W elikanda 1
7 Sri Siddhartha Vidyalaya Eppawala 1
Sabaragamuwa 8 W ijeriya Sumana Maha Vidyalaya Wijeriya ( via Rakwana) 1
9 Pinnawala Central College Rambukkana 1
Northern 10 Madukanda Central College Madukanda 1
Western 11 Mahinda Rajapakse Vidyalaya Pitipana, Homagama 1
Southern 12 Batapola MMV Batapola 1
13 Karandeniy a MMV Karandeniya 1
Uva 14 President's College Ambagasdowa Welimada 1
15 Megahakeula MMV Megahakeula 1
Wyamba 16 Sri Parakrama National School Kobeyigane 1
Central 17 Namini Oya MMV W eligama, Matale 1
18 Rangiri Dambulu National School Dambulla 1
19 Nugawela MMV Nugawela 1
SCIENCE FOR TECHNOLOGY SUBJECT
Province Serial Name of School Address T eacher
No. Vacancies
North Central 1 Maithripala Senanayake Vidyalaya Medawachchiya 1
2 Medirigiriya National School Medirigiriya 1
3 Thambuttegama MMV Thambuttegama 1
4 Palugasdamana Maha Vidyalaya Palugasdamana 1
5 Wilayaya MMV Aralaganwila 1
6 Mahasena Maha Vidyalaya Bakamuna 1
7 Welikanda Maha Vidyalaya W elikanda 1
8 Leelaratne Wijesinghe Maha Vidyalaya Hansayapalama 1
Wyamba 9 Mahasen National School Nikaweratiya 1
Northern 10 Madukanda Central College, Madukanda Vauniyawa 1
Eastern 11 Polwatte Maha Vidyalaya Polwaga Colany Ampara 1
12 Abhayapura MV Abayapura, Trincomalee 1
TEACHER VACANCIES IN THE TAMIL MEDIUM
BIOSYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY SUBJECT
Province Serial Name of School Address T eacher
No. Vacancies
Northern 1 Kili/Kilinochchi MMV A9 Road, West Anandapuram, 1
Kilinochchi
2 Kilinochchi Hindu College Janthinagar, Kilinochchi 1
3 Thampuram MV Thampuram, Paraththan 1
4 Erukkampiddi Muslim MMV Erukkampiddi, Mannar 1
5 Man/Murukkan MV Murukkan, Mannar 1
6 Mu/Vidyananda Vidyalaya Mulliyawelei 1
7 Oddusudan MV Vidyapuram, Oddusudan 1
8 Vu/Cheddikulam MV Cheddikulam 1
9 Vavuniya Tamil MMV Vavuniya 1
Province Serial Name of School Address T eacher
No. Vacancies

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1634
10 Manipai Hindu Vidyalaya Manipai 1
11 Wyavilan MMV Wyavilan 1
12 Nalladi MMV Karaweddi 1
13 Jaffna Hindu Vidyalaya Jaffna 1
Eastern 14 Bati/Oddamawadi MMV (N.S.) Oddamawadi 1
15 Bati/Valachchenei Annur MV V alachchenei 1
16 Bati/Kiran MV Kiran 1
17 Bati/Vandaramuli MMV Sittandi -1 1
18 Bati/Hindu Vidyal aya Batticaloa 1
19 Bati/Kaththankudi MMV 322, Beach Road, New 1
Katthankudi - 06
20 Kal/Samanthurei (N.S.) Samanthurei 1
21 Zahira Vidaylaya (N.S.) Zahira Vidayalaya Road, 1
Ayinthamarathu
22 Akkareipattu Muslim MMV Akkareipattu 1
23 Sri Ramakrishna Vidyalaya Akkareipattu 1
24 Vipulananda Vidyalaya Kandy Road, Trincomalee 1
25 Addalachchenei MV Main Street, Addalachchenei 1
26 T/Muthur MMV Knox Road, Muthur 1
Southern 27 Malhurussulhiya National School H. K. Edmund Road, Galle 1
28 Zahira National School Hambantota 1
Sabaragamuwa 29 Al-Azar Muslim MV Hemmathagama 1
Uva 30 Haputale Tamil MV Haputale 1
31 Saraswathi MMV Mahiyangana Road, Badulla 1
Wyamba 32 Passara Tamil MV Passara 1
33 Hisbulla MMV Kurunegala 1
34 Zahira National School Puttlam 1
35 Kekunagolla Muslim MMV Giriulla 1
Central 36 Madina Muslim Vidyalaya Madawala Bazzar 1
37 Kadireshan MMV Kothmale Road, 1
Nawalapitiya
38 Hindu National School Nuwaraeliya Road, Pusselawa 1
39 Al-manar MMV Handessa 1
40 Ajmeer National School Elkaduwa Road, Ukuwela 1
41 Holbrook Tamil MV Agarapathana 1
42 Norwood Tamil MV Norwood 1
43 Ragala Tamil MV Halgranoya 1
44 Cambridge V idyalaya Kotagala 1
SCIENCE FOR TECHNOLOGY SUBJECT
Province Serial Name of School Address T eacher
No. Vacancies
Western 1 Almubarak MMV Malwana 1
Central 2 Hindu National School Nuwaraeliya Road, Pusselawa 1
3 Al-manar MMV Handessa 1
4 Ajmeer National School Elkaduwa Road, Ukuwela 1
5 Kadireshan MMV Kothmale Road, Nawalapitiya 1
6 Holbrook Tamil MV Agarapathana 1
Province Serial Name of School Address T eacher
No. Vacancies

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1635
7 Norwood Tamil MV Norwood 1
8 Ragala Tamil MV Halgranoya 1
9 Cambridge Vidyalaya Kotagala 1
Southern 10 Arfa National School W eligama 1
11 Zahira National School Hambantota 1
Wyamba 12 Kekunagolla Muslim MMV Giriulla 1
13 Zahira National School Puttlam 1
14 Hisbulla Muslim MMV Theliyagonna 1
Uva 15 Saraswathi MMV Mahiyangana Road, Badulla 1
16 Passara Tamil MV Passara 1
17 Haputale Tamil MV Haputale 1
Sabaragamuwa 18 Al-Azar Muslim MV Hemmathagama 1
Northern 19 Manipai Hindu Vidyalaya Manipai 1
20 Nalliadi MMV Karaweddi 1
21 Chawakachcheri Hindu Vidyalaya Chawakachcheri 1
22 Jaffna Hindu College Jaffna 1
23 Wmbadi Balika High School Jaffna 1
24 Welani MMV W elani 1
25 WADDU Hindu Vidyalaya Sithankarni 1
26 Wyavilan MMV Wyavilan 1
27 Sri Somaskandha Vidyalaya Puthur 1
28 Methodist Balika High School Point Pedro 1
29 Kili/Kilinochchi MMV A9 Road, West Anandapuram, 1
Kilinochchi
30 Kilinochchi Hindu College Janthinagar, Kilinochchi 1
31 Erukkampiddi Muslim MMV Erukkampiddi, Mannar 1
32 Mn/Murukkan MV Murukkan Mannar 1
33 Mu/Vidyananda MV Mulliyawelai 1
34 Oddusudan MV Vidyapuram, Oddusudan 1
35 VU/Cheddikulam MV Cheddikulam 1
36 Vavuniya Tamil MMV Vavuniya 1
Eastern 37 Ba ti/Oddamawadi MMV (NS) Oddamawadi 1
38 Bati/Valachchenai Annur MV V alachchenai 1
39 Bati/Kaththankudi MMV 322, Beach Road, New 1
Kantthankudi - 06
40 Smanthurai MMV Smanthurai
41 Zahira Vidyalaya (NS) Zahira Vidyala Road, 1
Ayinthamarathu
42 Akkareipattu Muslim MMV Akkareipattu 1
43 Addalachchenei MV Main Street, Adalachchenei 1
44 Muthur MMV Muthur 1
45 Sri Ramakrishna Vidyalaya Akkareipattu 1
46 Bati/Kiran MV Kiran 1
47 Bati/Wandaramulei MMV Sitthandi - 1 1
48 Bati/Hindu Vid yalaya Batticaloa 1
49 Kaluthawalei MV Kaluthavalei 1
50 Wipulananda Vid yalaya Kandy Road, Trincomalee 1
Province Serial Name of School Address T eacher
No. Vacancies

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1636
2.4 A candidate will be appointed to Grade 3-1 of the Sri
Lanka Teacher Service according to the general conditions
of Government appointments, conditions under the Sri
Lanka Teacher Service, amendments done or to be made
to the Sri Lanka Teachers Service Minute. The entitled
monthly salary scale to this post is (according to the
Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006(iv) of 2007-
08-24) No. TS-1-2006A salary category (Monthly
Rs. 14,135 -180x9 - 240x6 - 330x5 - 400x7 - 645x13 -
Rs. 30,030). You will be placed at the first step of
Rs. 15,395 monthly.
2.5 These appointments are permanent and pensionable.
2.6 Promotions will be made under the directives of the Sri
Lanka Teachers Service Minute.
2.7 These appointments are subjected to the transfer
procedures of the transfers of the Sri Lanka Teacher
Service. As these appointments are given under School
Based basis, requests for transfers will not be considered
for 05 years and the selected applicants should enter
into a bond regarding.
03. Method of Application :
3.1 Application should comply with the phototype format
provided with this notification and it should be prepared
on both sides of an A4 paper and filled in by the applicant
him/herself. Applications contrary to the specimen
application and incomplete applications will be rejected
without any notification. (It is advisable to keep a
photocopy of the completed application form). The
applicant should assess whether the completed
application is in conformity to the specimen application
provided in the notice. It may be rejected if it does not
conform to the specimen application given.
3.2 The applicant's signature should be attested by a
Principal in a government school, a Justice of Peace, a
Commissioner of Oath, a Lawyer, a Public Notary, A
Commissioned Officer in the Tri-forces, a Gazetted
officer in the Police Service or a permanent officer in the
government service drawing an initial annual salary above
Rs. 240,360.
3.3 Duly filled applications should be sent by Registered
Post on or before 15.09.2014 addressed to "The Secretary,
Ministry of Education, Pelawatte, Battaramulla". It is
essential to note "Recruitment of Sinhala and Tamil
Medium Graduates as Teachers to teach Technology
subjects - 2014" on the top left hand side of the envelope
in which the application is sent.
3.4 Applications which are incomplete in any required
aspect will be rejected. The Ministry of Education will
not entertain any complaint regarding loss or delays in
the post.
3.5 One applicant can submit only one application.
4. It is essential for the officers who are presently in government
service to submit the application under heading 7.0 through the
Head of the Department.
5. Applicants who do not appear for the interview on the date
informed will not be considered in any way afterwards.
6. Any certificate produced after the date of the interview will
not be accepted.
7. Final decision regarding any matter that is not covered by this
notification and filling or not filling all or part of the vacancies is
vested upon the Secretary, Ministry of Education.
A
NURA DISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
At the Ministry of Education,
15th August, 2014.
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
For office use
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
RECRUITMENT OF GRADUATES FOR SINHALA AND TAMIL MEDIUM TEACHER VACANCIES IN THE SRI LANKA
TEACHING SERVICE GRADE 3-1 FOR THE SUBJECTS OF BIOSYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY AND SCIENCE FOR
TECHNOLOGY IN THE NEW TECHNOLOGY STREAM AT G . C. E. (ADVANCED LEVEL)
Biosystems Technology subject Sinhala Medium
(Agriculture Graduates) Tamil Medium
Science for Technology Sinhala Medium
(Physical Science Graduates) Tamil Medium
(Put a 3 for the subject and the medium)

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1637
Serial No. Province Name of School
(Put in the name of the school and the Serial No. for which applying)
01. 1.1 Name with initials denoted at the end of name (in English capitals) (Eg.– PERERA A.B.) :–––––––––––––.
1.2 Name denoted by the initials (in English capitals) :–––––––––.
02. Present address (in English capitals) :–––––––––––––.
(Calling letters will be posted to this address)
03. 3.1 Gender :
(Female - 1  Male - 0) (Write relevant number inside box)
3.2 Married/Unmarried :
Unmarried - 1  Married - 2 (Write relevant number in the box)
3.3 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.4 Age on 15.09.2014 : Years : Months : Days :
3.5 National Identity Card No. :
04. Details of Educational Qualifications :
G . C. G . (O/L) Examination G . C. E. (A/L) Examination
Year :–––––––––––––. Year :–––––––––––––.
Index No. :–––––––––––––. Index No. :–––––––––––––.
...................................................................... ......................................................... .............
...................................................................... ......................................................... .............
...................................................................... ......................................................... .............
...................................................................... ......................................................... .............
......................................................................
......................................................................
......................................................................
......................................................................
......................................................................
05. Details of Higher Education Qualifications :
4.1 Degree :–––––––––––––.
4.2 Issuing University :–––––––––––––.
4.3 Valid date of degree :–––––––––––––.
4.4 Main subject/s of the degree :–––––––––––––.
4.5 Medium in which the degree was obtained :–––––––––––––.
I declare that the the information provided here are true to my knoweldge. I understand that I may be dismissed from service
after selection if it becomes evident that I am not suitable. Further I agree to abide by the rules and regulations drawn up by the Appointing
Authority. I will not be changing afterwards any of the particulars provided herewith.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1638
06. Attesting the signature of the Applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................. who forwards
this application is known to me perosnally and that he/she had
placed his/her signature in my presence.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
Date:–––––––––––––.
Name of the Attestor :–––––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
07. If the applicant is a government servant, the certification of the
Head of the Department :
I forward the application of Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................ He/
She is permanent/temporary/casual servant of this Ministry/
Department and would like to inform that he/she can be released/
cannot be released from service.
–––––––––––––,
Head of Department/Authorised
Officer.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :–––––––––––––.
08–665/1
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Recruitment of Technology Diploma Holders for Sinhala
and Tamil Medium Teacher Vacancies for the Subject of
Engineering Technology in the New Technology Stream at
G . C. E. (Advanced Level)
APPLICATIONS are called from qualified Diploma holders in
mechanical Technology. Construction Technology, Electrical and
Electronics Technology and those who are awaiting results of
Diplomas for Sinhala and Tamil medium Teaching  vacancies in the
Sri Lanka Teachers Service Grade 3-1 according to the teachers
service minute for the subjects of Engineering Technology in the
New Technology Stream at G . C. E. (Advanced Level) at the
Secondary schools with Mahindodaya Technology Laboratories
for the development of children of the nation.
01. Qualifications  :
1.1 General Qualifications :
(i) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Should have a good character and should have good
mental and physical health.
(iii) Should not be less than 18 or more than 35 years of
age on 15.09.2014.
1.2 Educational Qualifications :
(a) (i) Four year Higher National Diploma in Engineering
(HNDE) awarded by the Sri Lanka Higher Technology
Institute (SLIATE).
(ii) Three year National Diploma in Technology (NDT)
awarded by the University of Moratuwa.
(iii) Four year National Diploma in Engineering Science
(NDES) awarded by the Engineering Technology
Institute at Katunayake.
(iv) Diploma in Technology (DT) awarded by the Open
University of Sri Lanka.
(v) Advanced Diploma in National V ocational
Qualification Level 6 (NVQ Level 6) awarded by
institutions approved by the Sri Lanka Tertiary and
professional Training Commission.
(vi) Local and International Diploma qualifications
equivalent to the Diplomas mentioned above
approved as to be equivalent by the equalizing and
empowering Commission of the National
Apprenticeship and Technical Training Authority.
Note.– Diploma holders in i-iv above should belong to one of
the fields below and Diploma holders in other fields
will not be considered.
* Mechanical Technology
* Construction Technology
* Electrical and Electronic Technology
(b) Should have passed G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) examination
with Mother Tongue and Mathematics and passing in
six subjects with 03 credit passes in not more than two
sittings.
(c) Passed in 03 subjects at the G . C. E. (Advanced Level) in
one and the same sitting.
Note.– Those who have passed at an examination equivalent
to the G. C. E. (O/L) and G . C. E. (A/L) Local and
Overseas examinations which are acceptable by the
Commissioner General of Examinations can also
apply.
02. Method of Recruitment and Service Conditions :
2.1 The Appointing Authority on recruitment will direct to
conduct a structured interview for those who apply
according to this notification and appointments will be
given to the teaching vacancies available for those
qualified according to the priority of marks obtained.
2.2 A candidate will be appointed to Grade 3-1 of the Sri
Lanka Teacher Service according to the general conditions
of Government appointments, conditions under the

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1639
Annex 1
TEACHER VACANCIES IN THE SINHALA MEDIUM
ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY SUBJECT
Province Serial Name of School Address T eacher
No. Vacancies
Central 1 Anuruddha Kumara National School Nawalapitiya 1
2 Gamini National Scho ol Nuwara Eliya 1
3 Rangiri Dambulla National School Dambulla 1
4 Sri Sumangala National School Nildandahinne 1
5 Ranasinghe Premadasa National School Hasalaka 1
6 Hatharaliyadda madya Maha V idyalaya Hatharaliyadda 1
7 D. B. Wejethunga National School Kuliyapitiya 1
8 Sri Naga National School Naula 1
9 Gelewela Madya Maha Vidyalaya Galewela 1
10 Naminioya Madya Vidy alaya Wilgamuwa, Matale 1
11 Sumana Madya Maha Vidyalaya T alawakele 1
North Central 12 Ananda Balika National School Hingurakgoda 1
13 Minneriya National School Minneriya 1
14 Medirigiriya National School Medirigiriya 1
15 Ruwanweli Madya Maha V idyalaya Horowpathana 1
16 Galnewa Madya Maha V idyalaya Galnewa 1
17 Ganthiriyagama Mahinda Madya Ipalogama 1
Maha Vidyalaya
18 Galkiriyagama Madya Maha Vidyalaya Galkiriyagama 1
19 Palugasdamana Maha V idyalaya Palugasdamana, Polonnaruwa 1
20 Wilayaya Madya Maha Vidyalaya Aralaganwila 1
21 Mahasen Maha Vidyalaya Bakamuna 1
22 Weilkanda Maha Vidyalaya W elikanda 1
23 Leelaratne Wijesinghe Maha Vidyalaya Hansayapalama 1
24 Maithreepala Sirisena Maha Vidyalaya Madewachchiya 1
25 Royal College, Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa 1
26 Mihinthale Maha Vidy alaya Mihinthale 1
Sabaragamuwa 27 Kalawana National School Kalawana 1
28 Siri Saman Madya Maha Vidyalaya Deraniyagala 1
29 Swarna Jayanthi Maha Vidyalaya Kumaratunga Munidasa 1
Mawatha, Kegalle
30 Karawita National School Uda Karawita 1
31 Kolonna National School Kolonna 1
32 Dehiowita National School Dehiowita 1
Sri Lanka Teacher Service, amendments done or to be
made to the Sri Lanka Teachers Service Minute. The
entitled monthly salary scale to this post is (according
to the Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006(iv) of
24-08-2007) (Monthly Rs. 14,135 -180x9 - 240x6 - 330x5
- 400x7 -645x13 - Rs. 30,030). You will be placed at the
first step of Rs. 14,135 monthly.
2.3 These appointments are permanent and pensionable.
2.4 Promotions will be made under the directives of the Sri
Lanka Teachers Service Minute.
2.5 Appointments will be given only to the schools
mentioned in Annex 1 where vacancies exist, and only
those applicants who are willing to serve in them should
apply.
Note.– If the number of applicants exceeds the number of
vacancies in a school, priority will be given according to
the total number of marks scored at the competitive
examination. If several candidates who have applied to a
particular school have got the same marks, then priority
will be given according to the distance to the school.
Applciants who satisfy these criteria will be recruited.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1640
33 Pinnawala Madya Maha Vidyalaya Rambukkana 1
34 Wijeriya Sumana Maha V idyalaya Rakwana 1
Uva 35 Mahiyangana National School Mahiyangana 1
36 Meegahakivula National School Meegahakivula 1
37 Sri Jananada National School Kadurugamuwa, Diyatalawa 1
38 Walahaputenna National School W alahaputenna, Haldummulla 1
39 Welimada Central School W elimada 1
40 Wellassa National School Wellassa, Hewelwala, Bibila 1
41 Mahanama National School Monaragala 1
42 Nissanka National School Badalkumbura 1
43 Malwatthawala Madya Maha Vid yalaya Wellawaya 1
44 Dharmapala Maha Vidyalaya Bandarawela 1
45 Dharmashoka Maha Vidyalaya Bandarawela 1
46 Madagama National School Bibila 1
47 Dutugemunu National School Buththala 1
48 Maliththa Maha Vidy alaya Pattiyegedara 1
49 President College Ambagasdowa 1
Southern 50 Weraketiya Rajapaksha National School Hambanthota 1
51 Keethi Abeywickrama National School Morawaka 1
Deniyaya Road
52 Deiyandara National School Deiyandara 1
53 Maliduwa Maha Vidya laya Eramudugoda, Akuressa 1
Wayamba 54 Perakumpura National School Track 3, Solepura 1
55 Ananda National School Puttlam 1
56 Kumbukgete Madya Maha Vidyalaya Puttlam 1
Kumbukgete
57 J. R. Jayawardena National School Kuliyapitiya 1
58 Mahasen National School Nikaweratiya 1
59 Madagama Abaya Vidyalaya M edagama 1
Northern 60 Madukanda National School Madukanda, Vauniya 1
Eastern 61 Polwatte Maha Vidyalaya Polwate Colony, Ampara 1
62 Medagama Maha Vidyalaya Nawa Medagama, Mahaweli 1
Zone C
63 Abhayapura Maha Vidyalaya Abhayapura, Trincomalee 1
64 Agbopura Maha Vidyalaya Agbopura, Kantale 1
65 Kantale Maha Vidyalaya Kantale 1
TEACHER VACANCIES IN THE TAMIL MEDIUM
ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY SUBJECT
Province Serial Name of School Address T eacher
No. Vacancies
Western 1 Almubarak MMV Malwana 1
Central 2 Ajmeer National School Ukuwela 1
3 Hindu National School Nuwaraeliya Road, Pusselawa 1
4 Kadireshan MMV Kothmale Road, Nawalapitiya 1
5 Holbrook Tamil MV Agarapathana 1
6 Norwood Tamil MV Norwood 1
7 Ragala Tamil MV Halgranoya 1
8 Cambridge Vi dyalaya Kotagala 1
Province Serial Name of School Address T eacher
No. Vacancies

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1641
Province Serial Name of School Address T eacher
No. Vacancies
Southern 9 Arpha National School W eligama 1
10 Zahira National School Hambantota 1
Wyamba 11 Kekunagolla Muslim MMV Giriulla 1
12 Zahira National School Puttlam 1
Uva 13 Saraswathi MMV Mahiyangana Road, Badulla 1
14 Passara Tamil MV Passara 1
15 Haputale Tamil MV Haputale 1
Sabaragamuwa 16 Al-Azar Muslim MV Hemmathagama
Northern 17 Manipal Hindu Vidyalaya Manipai 1
18 Nalliadi MMV Karaweddi 1
19 Chawakachcheri Hindu Vidyalaya Chawakachcheri 1
20 Jaffna Hindu College Jaffna 1
21 Wembadi Balika High School Jaffna 1
22 Welani MMV W elani 1
23 WADDU Hindu Vidyalaya Sithankarni 1
24 Wyavilan MMV Wyavilan 1
25 Sri Somaskandha Vidyalaya Puthur 1
26 Methodist Balika High School Point Pedro 1
27 Kili/Kilinochchi MMV A9 Road, West Anandapuram, 1
Kilinochchi
28 Kilinochchi Hindu College Janthinagar, Kilinochchi 1
29 Erukkampiddi Muslim MMV Erukkampiddi Mannar 1
30 Mn/Murukkan MV Murukkan Mannar 1
31 Mu/Vidyananda MV Mulliyawelai 1
32 Oddusudan MV Vidyapuram, Oddusudan 1
33 Vu/Cheddi kulam MV Cheddikulam 1
34 Vauniya Tamil MMV Vauniya 1
35 Tharmapuram Madya Maha Vidyalaya Paranthan 1
Eastern 36 Ba ti/Oddamawadi MMV (NS) Oddamawadi 1
37 Bati/Valachchenai Annur MV V alachchenai 1
38 Bati/Kaththankudi MMV 322, Beach Road, New 1
Katthankudi - 06
39 Zahira Vidyalaya (NS) Zahira Vidyalaya Road, 1
Ayinthamarathu
40 Akkareipattu Muslim MMV Akkareipattu 1
41 Addalachchenei MV Main Street, Addalachchenei 1
42 Sri Ramakrishna Vidyalaya Akkareipattu 1
43 T/MU/Muthur MMV Knox Road, Muthur 1
44 Bati/Kiran MV Kiran 1
45 Bati/Wandaramulei MMV Sitthandi - 1 1
46 Bat/Hindu Vidy alaya Batticaloa 1
47 Wipulananda Vidyalaya Kandy Road, Trincomalee 1
03. Method of Application :
3.1 Application should comply with the prototype format provided with this notification and it should be prepared on both sides
of an A4 paper and filled in by the applicant him/herself. Applications contrary to the specimen application and incomplete
applications will be rejected without any notification. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed applciation form).
The applicant should assess whether the completed application is in conformity to the specimen application provided in the
notice. It may be rejected if it does not conform to the specimen application given.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1642
3.2 The applicant's signature should be attested by a Principal
in a government school, a Justice of Peace, a
Commissioner of Oath, a Lawyer, a Public Notary, A
Commissioned Officer in the Tri-forces, a Gazetted
officer in the Police Service or a permanent officer in the
government service drawing an initial annual salary above
Rs. 240,360.
3.3 Duly filled applications should be sent by Registered
Post on or before 15.09.2014 addressed to "The Secretary,
Ministry of Education, Pelawatte, Battaramulla". It is
essential to note "Recruitment of Sinhala and Tamil
Medium Diploma holders in Engineering Technology as
Teachers to teach Technology subjects - 2014" on the
top left hand side of the envelope in which the application
is sent.
3.4 Applications which are incompelte in any required
aspect will be rejected. The Ministry of Education will
not entertain any complaint regarding loss or delays in
the post.
4. It is essential for the officers who are presently in government
service to submit the application under heading 7.0 through the
Head of the Department.
5. Applicants who do not appear for the interview on the date
informed will not be considered in any way afterwards.
6. Any certificate produced after the date of the interview will
not be accepted.
7. Final decision regarding any matter that is not covered by this
notification and filling or not filling all or part of the vacancies is
vested upon the Secretary, Ministry of Education.
A
NURA DISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
At the Ministry of Education,
15th August, 2014.
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
For office use
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
RECRUITMENT OF TECHNOLOGY DIPLOMA HOLDERS FOR SINHALA AND TAMIL MEDIUM TEACHING VACANCIES FOR
THE SUBJECT OF ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY IN THE NEW TECHNOLOGY STREAM AT G . C. E. (ADVANCED LEVEL)
Engineering Technology subject Sinhala Medium
Tamil Medium
(Put a 3 for the subject and the medium
Serial No. Province Name of School
(Put in the name of the school and the Serial No. for which applying)
01. 1.1 Name with initials denoted at the end of name (in English capitals) ( Eg.– PERERA A.B.) :–––––––––––––.
1.2 Name denoted by the initials (in English capitals) :–––––––––.
02. Present address (in English capitals) :–––––––––––––.
(Calling letters will be posted to this address)
03. 3.1 Gender :
(Female - 1  Male - 0) (Write relevant number inside box)
3.2 Married/Unmarried :
Unmarried - 1  Married - 2 (Write relevant number in the box)
3.3 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1643
3.4 Age on 15.09.2014 : Years : Months : Days :
3.5 National Identity Card No. :
04. Details of Educational Qualifications :
G . C. G . (O/L) Examination G . C. E. (A/L) Examination
Year :–––––––––––––. Year :–––––––––––––.
Index No. :–––––––––––––. Index No. :–––––––––––––.
...................................................................... ......................................................... .............
...................................................................... ......................................................... .............
...................................................................... ......................................................... .............
...................................................................... ......................................................... .............
......................................................................
......................................................................
......................................................................
......................................................................
......................................................................
05. Details of Higher Education Qualifications :
5.1 Diploma :–––––––––––––.
5.2 Issued Institute :–––––––––––––.
5.3 Valid date :–––––––––––––.
5.4 Main subject/s studied :–––––––––––––.
5.5 Medium in which the diploma was obtained :–––––––––––––.
I declare that the the information provided here are true to my knoweldge. I understand that I may be dismissed from service
after selection if it becomes evident that I am not suitable. Further I agree to abide by the rules and regulations drawn up by the Appointing
Authority. I will not be changing afterwards any of the particulars provided herewith.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
06. Attesting the signature of the Applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................. who forwards this application is known to me perosnally and tha t he/she
had placed his/her signature in my presence.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
Date:–––––––––––––.
Name of the Attestor :–––––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
07. If the applicant is a government servant, the certification of the Head of the Department :
I forward the application of Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................ He/She is permanent/temporary/casual servant of this Minist ry/
Department and would like to inform that he/she can be released/cannot be released from service.
–––––––––––––,
Head of Department/Authorised  Officer.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :–––––––––––––.
08–665/2

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1644
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
AUDITOR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment of
Superintendents of Audit Class II Grade II of the Sri
Lanka Audit Service – 2014
THE Open  Competitive Examination for recruitment of
Superintendents of Audit Class II Grade II for the candidates
possessing the qualifications specified in paragraph 02 below will
be held in Colombo in November 2014 by the Commissioner General
of Examinations
01. Methodology of Recruitment.– Out of the vacancies existing
in Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Audit Service, 15 vacancies
which is not more than 20 percent of the existing vacancies will be
filled by the Public Service Commission on the results of a written
examination and an interview held for the candidates who have
completed the qualifications specified in  paragraph 02 below.
02. Qualifications.– All candidates must –
(a) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Have any one of the following qualifications ;
(1) Degree of a recognized University with Accountancy
as a subject;
(2) Associate Membership of the Institute of Chartered
Secretaries;
(3) Associate Membership of the Institute of Corporate
Secretaries,
(4) B.Sc. Degree in Public Finance and Taxation or a
similar field;
(5) Obtained the Intermediate Certificate or the Licentiate
Certificate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants
of Sri Lanka or qualifications at similar level of any
one of the following Accountancy Bodies;
(i) The Institute of Chartered Accountants of
England and Wales;
(ii) The Chartered Institute of Management
Accountants of the United Kingdom.
(iii) The Chartered Association of Certified
Accountants of the United Kingdom or similar
Professional Body.
(6) Associate Membership of the Cost and Industrial
Accountants of the United Kingdom;
(7) Higher National Diploma in Accountancy of the
Ministry of Higher Education;
(8) Diploma in Commerce of the Ceylon Technical
College;
(9) An Officer who holds a post in a Departmental Grade
or a Combined Service carrying a salary scale with an
initial salary of which is not less than Rs.13,640 per
month and who possesses 10 years of continuous
Public / Provincial Public Service on the closing date
of applications and who is confirmed in his service;
(10) An Officer who holds a Degree of a recognized
University and who is confirmed in his post and
possesses 05 years service in Public/Provincial Public
Service or in a Public Enterprise on the closing date
for applications;
(11) An Officer who has passed the Intermediate
Examination of the Higher National Diploma in
Accountancy of the Ministry of Higher Education
and who possesses 5years service in Public/ Provincial
Public Service or in a Public Enterprise on the closing
date for applications and who is confirmed in his
post;
(12) An Officer who holds a post in a Public Enterprise
carrying a salary scale with an initial salary of which
is not less than Rs.14,980 per month and who
possesses 10 years of continuous service on the
closing date of applications and who is confirmed in
his service.
Notes :(i) The examination or the examinations for
qualification should be completed in every respect
by 12 September 2014.
(ii) The official certificate in support of qualification
or an Official Document acceptable by the Public
Service Commissioner in lieu of such a certificate
should be produced at the interview.
03. Salary Scale.– The monthly consolidated salary scale attached
to this post is SL-1, Rs.22,935-10x645 – 8x790-17x1,050-53,555.
Salary will be paid in accordance with the Public Administration
Circular No. 06/2006.
04. Age Limit. – Age should not be less than 22 years and not
more than 40 years on 12 September 2014.  This age limit is not
applicable to those already in the Public / Provincial Public Service.
05. Physical Fitness and other Service Conditions :
(a) All candidates should have an excellent moral character
and should be in sound health.
(b) Should be willing to serve in any part of the Island.
(c) The officers recruited to this post should acquire
proficiency in the second language on joining the service
in accordance with the Public Administration Circular
01/2014.
(d) This post is a permanent and pensionable post subject
to a probation period of three years/ an acting period
of one year.

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1645
06. Scheme of Examination :
(a) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
Mediums;
(b) A candidate should sit the examination in the Language
in which he/she passed the qualifying examination or in
the Official Language.
(c) A candidate who has passed subjects at the qualifying
examination in two or more languages should sit the
examination in the language in which he / she passed the
majority of subjects at such examination or in the Official
Language.
(d) A candidate with a Special Degree who has passed the
principal subject in one language and the subsidiary
subjects in another language should sit the examination
in the language in which he passed the principal subject
or in the Official Language.
Notes : (i) The term "Qualifying examination" in (b) and (c)
above refers to any of  the examination referred
to in paragraph 02.
(ii) A candidate must sit all the papers for examination
in one and the same language.
(iii) Candidates will not be permitted to change the
medium of the examination given in their
applications.
07. Syllabus of Written Examination.– The examination consists
of six written question papers of three hours duration each and the
total of marks for each question paper is 100.
(i) Accountancy;
(ii) Auditing;
(iii) Business Mathematics;
(iv) Cost Accountancy;
(v) Economics and Public Finance;
(vi) General Commercial Knowledge and Commercial
Arithmetic ;
or
(vii) Government Financial Regulations and Financial
Procedure.
The candidates who qualify under paragraphs (1) to (8) of 2(b)
of this Notification should, in addition to the question papers (i) to
(v) above, answer the question paper (vi) and the candidates who
qualify under paragraphs (9) to (12) of 02 (b) should answer the
question paper (vii).
Syllabus :
(I) Accountancy – A question paper of 3 hours duration on
the following topics.  (All questions should be answered)
Accounting Theory, Manufacturing Accounts, Trading
Accounts, Profit and Loss Accounts and Balance Sheet,
Suspense Accounts and Rectification of Errors, Single
Entry and Incomplete Records, Total Accounts, Stock
Valuation, Receipts and Payments Accounts, Income
and Expenditure Accounts, Cash Basis and Accrual
Basis, Capital and Revenue Expenses, Depreciation,
Amortization and Depletion, Partnership Accounts,
Provisions and Reserves, Joint V entures, Bills of
Exchange, Limited Companies, Accounts of Public
Corporations, Consignment Accounts, Goods on Sale
or Return, Container Accounts, Branch Accounts,
Departmental Accounts, Hire Purchase Accounts,
Investment Accounts and Royalty Accounts.
(II) Auditing – A question paper of 3 hours duration on the
following topics. (All questions should be answered.)
General Theory on Auditing
Types of Audit, Internal and External Audit and Private
and Balance Sheet Audit, Interim and Final Audit, State
Audit and Audit of Private Enterprises.
Role of the External Auditor and the Internal Auditor,
their Relationship, Personal Qualities, Independence.
Internal Control and Check : Review, Recording,
Preliminary Evaluation, Authentication and
Ascertainment and Final Evaluation, Analytical
Audit,Organizational Charts and Flow Charts and
Auditing in Depth.
V ouching : Classification of Capital and Revenue Income
and Expenditure, Sampling Methods and Techniques
Detection and Prevention of Fraud and Error.
Audit of Sales : Debtors and Receipts Procedure,
Purchase on Credit and Payments Procedure, Payroll
Procedure, Cost and Inventory Records, Books of
Account and Interim and Final Accounts.
V erification of Assets and Liabilities : Ownership,
Existence and Valuation of Fixed Assets, Investments,
Stocks, Debtors, Cash, Liabilities and Contingent
Liabilities.
Limited Companies : Statutory Books of Limited
Companies, Powers and Duties of Directors, Divisible
Profits.
Public Corporations : Appointment, Remuneration and
Removal of Auditors, Action before Accepting a new
Audit.
Powers, Duties and Responsibility of Auditor.
Organization and Control of Internal and External
Audits, Audit Programmes, Internal Control
Questionnaires and Charts.
Audit of Mechanized Systems.

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1646
Internal Audit, Efficiency Audit, Management Audit,
Operational Audit, Systems Audit, Value for Money
Audit.
Investigations
(III) Business Mathematics : A question paper of 3 hours
duration on the following topics, (All questions should
be answered).
Series :  Arithmetic, Geometric, Binomial and
Exponential Series, Compound Interest and Discounting
Formulas and their Derivations.
Equations : Linear and Quadratic Equations and their
Graphical Equivalents, Derivations and their
Applications to the solution of Maximum and Minimum
Points.
Data : Collection and Tabulation of Data, Approximation
and Limits of Accuracy, Market Research and Collection
of Data.
Presentation : Use of Statistics in the presentation of
Reports, Analysis of Statistical Information and its
interpretation in non-technical Language, Graphs and
Diagrams including Logarithmic Graphs.
(IV) Cost Accountancy  - A question paper of 3 hours
duration on the following topics.  (All questions should
be answered).
Materials :
Purchasing : Materials Specifications, Materials
Requisitioning, Ordering and follow up procedures.
Receipt of Goods : Methods of checking Receipts,
Quantity, Quality and Specifications.
Materials Classification : Classification and Coding of
Raw Materials, Work-in-progress, Finished Goods,
Packing Materials, Maintenance Materials, Patterns and
Tools and other Indirect Materials.
Stores : Layout, Methods of Storage, Raw Materials,
Work-in-progress, Finished Goods and Packing
Materials, Stores for Tools, Patterns, Maintenance
Materials and other Indirect Materials, Centralized and
Decentralized Stores and Sub-stores, Internal Transport
and Mechanical Handling Equipment.
Store – Keeping : Recording of Receipts, Stocks
Transferred from Stores and Returns to Stores, Orders,
Allocations and free Balance, Treatment of Waste and
Scrap Materials.
Stock Control : Maximum, Minimum and Re-order
Levels, Order Quantities, Control of Perishable Goods,
Prevention of Waste, Review of Slow Moving, Dormant
and Obsolete Stocks.
Stocktaking : Organizing Stocktaking, Preparation of
Forms,  Control of Inventory Records, Recording of
Physical Stocks, Pricing, Extending and Summarizing
Inventory Records, Perpetual Inventory and
Discrepancies in Continuous Stocktaking, Investigations
and Treatment of Discrepancies.
Materials Costing : Methods of Costing Materials and
Calculation of Costs and Allocation to Cost Centres,
and Units,Materials Summaries, Stock Ledgers.
Cost of Materials : Cost of a Unit of Finished Goods,
Cost of Damaged Materials.
Labour :
Work  Records : Recording of Time, Outputs and Types
of Records, Defective Work, Lost Time.
Remuneration : Methods of Remuneration, Incentives
and Payment by Results, Work Study, Standard Rate
Fixing.
Job Evaluation : Merit Rating, Allowance for Defective
Work.
Extra Allowances :
Payroll Procedures : Calculation and  Verification of
Gross Earnings, V oluntary and Statutory Deductions,
Payroll Methods and Routines, Payment Procedure,
Pay Roll Summaries.
LabourCosting : Classification, Allocation and
Apportionment to Cost Centres and Cost Units,
Calculation of Cost Rates.
Labour Cost Controls : Unit of Outputs, Measure of
Efficiency of Direct Labour, Bonus Levels, Earnings
Level, Overtime and Lost Time, Ratio of Indirect to
Direct Labour, Cost of Defective Work.
Overheads :
General : Nature and Types of Overheads, Overheads
on Research, Development, Design, Purchasing,
Production, Staff, Selling, Distribution, Administration
and Finance, Fixed and Semi-Variable Overheads.
Collection : Classification and Coding, Effects of
Circumstances of Treatment of Items, Records of
Original Entry, Overheads Accounting and Summaries.
Allocation and Apportionment : Method of Allocation
and Apportionment to Cost Centres and Cost Units.

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1647
Absorption : Method of absorbing Overheads in the
Unit Cost, Effect of Level of Output on absorption of
Overhead Expenses, Over and Under Absorption Causes
and Treatment.
Services : Measurement of uses of Services including
Maintenance, Instrumentation, Recording of Cost and
charging to Cost Centres.
Plant and Machinery : Records of Plant and Machinery
Depreciation, Usage and Efficiency.
Costing Techniques :
Types of Costing : Method and Procedures for Costing
by the Job (including Batch and Contract) and
Compilation of Production Cost, Methods and
Procedures for Costing by Process (including Operating
and Compilation of Product  Costs)
Joint Products and by Products : Distinction and
Accounting Treatment, Alternative Method of
Recording, Alternative Bases of Apportionment,
Collection of Cost and Value  Used and Liabilities and
Practicability.
Waste : Costing of Waste, Spoilage, Defective Work,
Rectification of Errors, Idle Time and Idle Facilities.
Functions : Costing of Research, Development, Design
and Preproduction, Purchasing, Staff, Production,
Marketing, Administration and Financing.
Budgetary Control and Standard Costing.
Budget and Standards : Master Budget and Subsidiary
Budgets, Budget Manual, Standard Cost Rates, Fixed
and Flexible Budgets, Standard Product Costs.
Collection and Analysis : Actual Expenditure and Output
for comparison with Standards and Budget.
V ariance Analysis : Analysis of Total V ariances of
Intermediate Level of all Elements of Costs.
Marginal Costing :
Techniques and applications at intermediate level.
Presentation and Use
Operating Statements for Process and Trade Sectors :
Methods of Presentation, Oral, Narrative, Tabular
Graphical and other Visual Means, Continuous and Ad
Hoc Records and presentation.
(V) Economics and Public Finance – A question paper of 3
hours duration. (All questions should be answered).
Theory of Value : Demand and Supply, the Price
Mechanism Perfect and Imperfect Competitions,
Monopoly, Economic Rent, Labour and Wage Rates,
Capital and Interest Rates, Explanation of the Queue,
Equilibrium Theory, Social Cost and Gains outside the
Pricing System.
Production : The Theory of the Firm, Factors of
Production Management, Application of Capital, Fixed
and Current Assets, Organization for Production and
Distribution, Location of Industry, Division of Labour
and Development of specialized Business, Factor
Endowment and Comparative  Advantages
,Nationalization.
Money : Functions of Banking, Credit and Finance and
Money, Types of Money, the Banking Mechanism,
Central Bank, Bank of England, Commercial Banks,
Finance Houses, Discount Houses, Hire Purchase , Life
Insurance, Provident Fund, Pension Fund, Capital
Market.
Market : Local, National and International Trade, Tariffs
and Quotas.
International Trade : The Theory of International Trade,
Gold Standard and subsequent Systems, the Sterling
Area, the Hard Currency Area, the International
Monetary Fund, the International Bank of
Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) and the
International Finance Corporation, International
Development Association, the Asian Development
Bank, the General Agreement on Trade and Tariff
(GATT) the European Economic Community, Bilateral
Trade, Supplier Credit, the Aid Club Consortium.
National Income and Government Intervention :
National Income Measurement and Statistical Data, the
Role of Government, Economic Growth of the Country,
Savings and Investment, Changes in the level of Business
Activity, Unemployment, Balance of Payment and the
Stability of the Rupee, Effects of Inflation and
Deflation, Credit Creation and Control by Central Bank,
Impact of Foreign Trade and International Competition,
Trade Payments and Agreements, Swing Credits, Tariff,
Quotas, Import Control, Exchange Control and other
Government Measures to Regulate the Economy.
The Theory of Taxation and Fiscal Policy : Direct Taxes,
Indirect Taxes, Non-tax Revenue, Subsidies, Provision
of Economic Incentives through the Tax Structure, Cost
of Tax Administration.
Source of Financing the Government Budget : Taxes
and Non-tax Revenue, Rupee Loans, Foreign Loans,
Grants under the Colombo Plan and the United Nations
Agencies, the other Service of Aid.

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1648
(VI) General Commercial Knowledge and Commercial
Arithmetic  : A question paper of 3 hours duration.  (All
questions should be answered).
Business Organization and Management : Sole Trader,
Partnerships, Joint Stocks, Trading Companies, Private
and Public Holding Companies, Public Corporations,
Co-operative Societies, Local Authorities.
Negotiable Instruments : Sources of Finance, Permanent
Capital, Working Capital, Short Terms and Long Terms
Borrowing, Financial Institutions and their graphical
functions.
Foreign Trade, Commodity Markets :
Principles of Insurance including Business Insurance,
Stocks and Shares, Simple and Compound Interest,
Averages and Means, Equations – Linear and Quadratic
Equations and their graphical presentation.
(VII) Government Financial Regulations and Financial
Procedure – A question paper of 3 hours duration (All
questions should be answered).
General knowledge of the Financial Regulations of the
Government and the Financial Procedure as they relate
to the Revenue and Expenditure, Annual Budget
Estimates and Supplementary Estimates, Loan Funds,
Public Debt, Establishment, Stores and Tenders,
Imprests and Advances, Financial Sanctions, Islands
Accounts, Functional and Economic Classifications,
Programme Budgets, Performance Budgets and the
functions of the Minister of Finance, the Treasury, the
Ministry of Planning, the  Secretaries to Ministries, the
Estimates Committees, the Auditor General and the
Committee on Public Accounts.
08. Interview.– Out of the candidates who have obtained the
highest total marks with a minimum of not less than 40 percent of
the marks in each paper and a minimum of not less than 45 percent
of the aggregate marks of the written examination (a number
equivalent to the number of vacancies) only will be eligible to be
called for to be interviewed by a Board of Interview approved by
the Public Service Commission.  The interview will be confined to
scrutinizing the certificates and the physical fitness for the post.
Marks will not be awarded at the Interview.
09. Conditions of Examination :
(I) Examination Fees. – The fee for this Examination is
Rs.500.  This fee should be paid at any of the Divisional
Secretariats or the District Secretariats in the Island
before the closing date for applications with instructions
for crediting to the Revenue Code 2003-02-13 of the
Commissioner General of Examinations.  One edge of
the receipt in the name of the candidate obtained from
the Divisional Secretariat or the District Secretariat
should be affixed to the relevant cage in one’s application
form.  The fee paid for this examination will not be
refunded fully or partly for any reason whatsoever.
Keeping a photocopy of the receipt in support of
payment of money will be useful.
(II) Submitting Applications :
(a) The application should be prepared in accordance
with the specimen form annexed to this Notification
should be sent by registered post to reach the
"Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, Post Office Box 1503,
Colombo" on or before 29 August 2014.  Any
applications received after the above date will be
rejected.
(b) Applicants who are already in Public Service/
Provincial Public Service/ Public Corporation Services
should forward their applications through their
Heads of Department/ Heads of Institutions.
(c) The words"Open Competitive Examination,
Superintendents of Audit- 2014"should be clearly
written on the top left hand corner of the envelope
containing the application.
(d) The application should be filled in the language in
which the candidate is eligible to sit the examination.
(e) The application form should be prepared with Heads
01 to 06 in the first page, Heads 07 to 09 in the
second page and the balance in the pages 3 and 4,
and the information relating to that should be filled
in clearly in one’s handwriting.  The applications
which do not conform to the specimen and the
applications with the incomplete information will
be rejected without giving notice.  Keeping a
photocopy of the application will be useful.
Conformity of the completed application with the
specimen application form in the Examination
Notification should be examined.  Otherwise the
application will be rejected.
(f) In the preparation of the application, the name of
the examination appearing in the heading, in the case
of applications in Sinhala, should be written in
English in addition to Sinhala and in the case of
applications in Tamil should be written in English in
addition to Tamil.
(g) The signature of the candidate should be attested by
an authorized person. The candidates who are already
in Public Service/ Provincial Public Services should
get their signatures attested by their Heads of
Departments or by an officer authorized to do so on
his behalf.  The other candidates should get their
signatures attested by any one of the following, i.e.,
a Justice of the Peace, a Commissioner of Oaths, an

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1649
Attorney at Law, a Notary Public, a Principal of a
Government School or a Director Managed School,
a Public Officer drawing an annual consolidated
salary of Rs.240,360 or over, a Chief Incumbent or
a High Priest of a Buddhist Temple or a member of
the Clergy of any other religion or in charge of a
place of Worship or holding a position of importance
in such place of Worship, a Commissioned Officer
in the Three Armed Forces and an Officer holding a
Gazetted Post in the Police Service.
10. Admission to the Examination :
(a) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
an Admission to every candidate who has sent the
application as specified.  Immediately after the issue of
Admission Cards to the candidates, the Department of
Examinations will publish a newspaper notice to that
effect.  If the Admission Card is not received 2 or 3 days
after the publication of the newspaper notice, it should
be brought to the notice of the Department of
Examinations as specified in such notice.  In such
instance you are informed to make enquiries from the
Department of Examinations by giving your full name,
address, the National Identity Card Number and the
name of the examination.  If you are a candidate from an
area outside Colombo, it is appropriate to fax a letter to
the fax number given in the notice giving your fax number
for sending the Admission Card to you by fax.  It is
useful to keep ready the copy of the application, the
copy of the receipt for the examination fee and the
registration slip received for the posting of the
application to be produced if required in making such
enquiries. The candidates presenting themselves for the
examination should produce the Admission Cards with
the attested signatures to the Supervisor of the
Examination Centre.  Any candidate who fails to produce
his/her Admission Card will not be permitted to sit the
examination.
(b) The attention of the candidates is drawn to the set of
rules to be followed by all the candidates published in
paragraph (II A) of Part I of the Ordinary Gazette.
(c) The examination will be held in Sinhala/ Tamil/ English
mediums and any change of the medium applied for will
not be permitted.
(d) The following documents only will be accepted for
proving the identity of candidates to the Supervisor of
the Examination Hall in the examinations held by the
Department of Examinations.
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the
Department of Registration of Persons.
(ii) Valid Passport.
(e) The issue of an Admission  Card for the examination to
a candidate does not indicate a recognition that he or she
has fulfilled the qualifications to sit the examination.
(f) All candidates are bound to abide by the rules laid down
by the Commissioner General of Examinations for
holding examinations.  In case of violation of those rules,
he or she is liable to punishment meted out by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
(g) A Results Sheet consisting of a number of candidates
equal to the number of existing vacancies prepared
according to merit of total marks out of the candidates
who have qualified in accordance with paragraph 08
above will be given to the Secretary to the Public Service
Commission.
Informing the results of the examination personally to
all candidates who sat the examination or the publication
in the Website
www.results.exams.gov.lk will be done
by the Department of Examinations.
11.The Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, the
Circulars relating to the Public Service issued from time to time and
the Minute on Sri Lanka Audit Service and the conditions in the
amendments made thereto are applicable to this post.
12.If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his/her candidature is
liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or after the
examination.  If any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is
found to be false within his knowledge or if he/she has willfully
suppressed a material fact, he//she will be liable to dismissal from
the Public Service.
13.The right either for filling/ not filling a part or all vacancies
rests with the Public Service Commission.
14.In the event of any nonconformity or inconsistency among
the Notifications in the Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums, action
will be taken by treating the Notification in the Sinhala medium is
correct.
By Order of the Public Service Commission.
H. A. S. S
AMARAWEERA,
Auditor General.
Auditor General’s Department,
No.306/72, Polduwa Road,
Battaramulla.
01st August, 2014.

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1650
(For  office  use  only)
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT OF
SUPERINTENDENTS  OF AUDIT CLASS II GRADE II
OF THE SRI LANKA AUDIT SERVICE – 2014
The Medium of Language for Please state the
sitting the Examination according paragraph of the
to Paragraph 06 of the Gazette Gazette Notification
Notification (Subsequent requests under which you
for change of the medium will not apply.
 be entertained.)
(Sinala-2, Tamil -3, English – 4) If under Paragraphs
(Write the relevant number in the Cage) 02(b)(1) to(8) write
1 and if under
Paragraphs 02(b)(9)
to (12) write 2 in the
cage.
01. Name :
1.1 Last Name with Initials (in English Block Capitals) :
––––––––––––.
Eg. : GUNAWARDHANA, M.G.B.S.K
1.2 Name in Full : (in English Block Capitals) :–––––––––.
1.3 Name in Full : (in Sinhala/ Tamil) :–––––––––.
02. Permanent Address : (in English Block Capitals) :–––––––––.
2.1 Permanent Address : (in Sinhala/ Tamil) :–––––––––.
2.2 Telephone Number :–––––––––.
2.3 Official Address : (in English Block Capitals) (Admission
Card will be sent to this Address) :–––––––––.
2.4 Official Address : (in Sinhala/ Tamil) :–––––––––.
(Officers in the Public Service/ Provincial Public Service/
Public Corporations should write his/ her Official Address)
03. Sex : (Female – 1, Male -0)
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
04. National Identity Card Number :
05. Race :
(Sinhala -1, Tamil – 2, Indian Tamil – 3, Muslim – 4,
Others – 5) (Write the relevant number in the cage )
06. 06.1 Marital Status : (Married – 2, Single – 1 )
(Write the relevant number in the Cage)
06.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
06.3 Age on 12th September, 2014 :
Years : Months : Days :
07. The candidates who sit this examination under paragraphs
02(b)(1) to (8) of the Gazette Notification should give the
following details.
State the qualifications obtained by you to be eligible to sit the
examination.
12 3
Qualifications Dates  of obtaining Institution from which
obtained such Qualifications  the Qualification
was obtained
08. The candidates who sit this examination under paragraphs
02(b)(9) to (12) of the Gazette Notification should give the
following details.
(i) The Service you belong to / Departmental Grade  :–––––.
(ii) The date on which you were confirmed  in the service/
Departmental Grade :–––––––––––.
Year :––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Date  :–––––––––.
(iii) The total permanent and continuous service as at 12
September 2014 :
Years : ……………… Months : ……………….
Days : …………….
(iv) Present Class / Grade :–––––––––––.
(v) If you are a Graduate of a recognized University give the
following particulars :
(a) Year of  obtaining the Degree :–––––––––––.
(b) University :–––––––––––.
(c) Subjects :
............................
............................
............................
(d) Class :–––––––––––.
(e) Upper / Lower :–––––––––––.
(f) Date of Release of Results  :–––––––––––.
(vi) Date of passing the Intermediate Examination of the Higher
National Diploma Course in Accounting of the Ministry
of Higher Education  :–––––––––––.
09.Affix the cash receipt :
(i) Number : (ii) Place of Payment :
(iii) Date : (iv) Amount paid Rs………
(Keeping a photocopy of the cash receipt will be useful for
subsequent follow up)

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1651
10. Certificate of the Candidate :
10.1 I declare that the information given in this form is true to
the best of my knowledge and belief and that I have
affixed the Receipt No. ……………. dated ………….
for the payment of the fee for this examination.  I also
agree to abide by the rules of the examination laid down
by the Commissioner General of Examinations and any
decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior
to during or after the examination, if it is found that I am
ineligible according to the conditions of the examination.
10.2 This part should be filled only by the candidates who
possess qualifications under paragraph 02(b) (09) to (12)
of the Gazette Notification.
I declare that during the preceding five years as at 12 September
2014, I have earned all the salary increments (excluding the salary
increment conditional to passing Service or Departmental
Examinations) and (excluding warning) that I have not been subjected
to any form  of disciplinary punishment.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
11. Attestation of Signature – Only for the candidates with
qualifications under 02(b)(9) to (12)
Certificate of the Head of Department : (for the candidates of
the Open Competitive Examination under paragraph 10.2 above
who are already serving in the Public/ Provincial Public Service or
Public Corporations)
I hereby certify that …………………………. the candidate
who is forwarding this application is serving in this office since
…………………….. and his/her work and conduct are continually
satisfactory and all the particulars stated in  paragraphs 08 and
10.2 above which  I personally examined from the records available
in this office and that they are correct and that he/she signed in my
presence on …………………. 2014.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
Full Name of the Attester :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(Confirm by Rubber Stamp)
12. Attestation (Only for candidates who possess qualifications
under 02(b)(01) to (08) :
I certify that the applicant ……………………. who is
forwarding this application is personally known me and that he/
she placed his/ her signature in my presence.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester and Seal.
Date :–––––––––––.
Full Name of Attester :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
08–662/2
–––––––––––––––––
AUDITOR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment of
Superintendents of Audit Class II Grade II of the Sri
Lanka Audit Service – 2014
THE Limited Competitive Examination for recruitment of
Superintendents of Audit Class II Grade II for the Officers of the
Auditor General’s Department will be held in Colombo in November
2014 by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
01. Out of the vacancies existing in Class II  Grade II of the Sri
Lanka Audit Service, 40 vacancies which is not more than 50 percent
of the existing vacancies will be filled by the Public Service
Commission on the results of a written examination and an interview
held for the candidates who have completed the qualifications
specified in paragraph 02 below.
02. Qualifications.– The following officers who possess 10 years
continuous service in the Auditor General’s Department as at 12
September 2014 only can sit this examination.
(a) Officers in Grade I and Grade II of the Audit Examiners’
Service
or
(b) Officers in the Supra Grade, Grade I and Grade II of the
Public Management Assistants’ Service receiving a
monthly consolidated salary of not less than Rs.15,610.
03. Salary Scale .– The monthly consolidated salary scale
attached to this post is SL-1 Rs.22,935 -10x645 – 8x790 – 17x1,050
– 53,555. Salary will be paid in accordance with the Public
Administration Circular  06/2006.
04. Age Limit. – The age limit is not applicable to the limited
recruitment.

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1652
05. Physical Fitness and Other Service Conditions :
(a) All candidates should have an excellent moral character
and should be in sound health.
(b) Should be willing to serve in any part of the Island.
(c) The Officers recruited to this post should acquire
proficiency in the second language on joining the service
in accordance with the Public Administration Circular
01/2014.
(d) This post is a permanent and pensionable post subject
to an acting period of one year.
06. Syllabus :
(I) Accountancy –  A question paper of 3 hours duration on
the following topics. All questions should be answered.
Accounting Theory, Manufacturing Accounts, Trading
Accounts, Profit and Loss Accounts and Balance Sheet,
Suspense Accounts and Rectification of Errors, Single
Entry and Incomplete Records, Total Accounts (Control
Accounts) Stock Valuation, Receipts and Payments
Account, Income and Expenditure Accounts, Cash Basis
and Accrual Basis, Capital and Revenue Expenses,
Depreciation, Amortisation, Depletion, Partnership
Accounts, Provisions and Reserves, Joint Ventures, Bills
of Exchange, Limited Companies, Accounts of Public
Corporations, Consignment Accounts, Goods on Sale or
Return, Container Accounts, Branch Accounts,
Departmental Accounts, Hire Purchase Accounts,
Investment Accounts and Royalty Accounts.
(II) Auditing  - A question paper of 3 hours duration on the
following topics. All questions should be answered.
General Theory and Principles of Auditing
Types of Audit : Internal and External, Statutory and Private,
Balance Sheet Audit, Interim and Final Audit, State Audit
and Audit of Private Enterprises
Role of the External Auditor and the Internal Auditor,
their Relationship, Personal Qualities and Independence.
Internal Control and Check  – Review, Recording,
Preliminary Evaluation, Authentication and Final
Evaluation, Analytical Audit, Organization Charts and
Flow Charts and Auditing In-depth
Vouching : Classification of Capital and Recurrent
Expenditure and Income and Expenditure, Sampling
Methods and Techniques, Detection and Prevention of
Fraud and Error.
Audit of Sales :  Debtors and Receipts Procedure, Purchase
on Credit and Payments Procedure, Payroll Procedure,
Cost and Inventory Records, Books of Account and Interim
and Final Audit
Verification of Assets and Liabilities : Ownership, Existence
and Valuation of Fixed Assets, Investments, Stocks,
Debtors, Cash, Liabilities and Contingent Liabilities.
Limited Companies  : Statutory Books of Limited
Companies, Powers and Duties of Directors, Divisible
Profits.
Public Corporations  -  Appointment, Remuneration and
Removal of Auditors, Action before Acceptance of a new
Audit, Powers, Duties and Responsibility of Auditors.
Organization and Control of External and Internal Audits:
Audit Programmes, Internal Control Questionnaires and
Charts
Audit of Mechanised Systems.
Internal Audit, Efficiency Audit, Management Audit,
Operational Audit, Systems Audit, Value for Money Audit
Investigations
(III) Business Mathematics  -  A question paper of 3 hours
duration on the following topics. All   questions should be
answered
Series : Arithmetic, Geometric, Binomial and Exponential
Series, Compound Interest and Discounting Formulas and
their derivation.
Equations : Linear and Quadratic Equations and their
Graphical Equivalents, Derivatives and their application
to the solution of Maximum and Minimum Points
Data  : Collection and Tabulation of Data, Approximation
and Limits of Accuracy, Market Research and Collection
of Data.
Presentation : Use of Statistics in the Presentation of
Reports, Analysis of Statistical Information and its
interpretation in non-technical Language, Graphs and
Diagrams including Logarithmic Graphs.
100 Marks for each Question Paper.
07. Interview.– Out of the candidates who have obtained the
highest total marks with a minimum of not less than 40 percent of
the marks in each paper and a maximum of not less than 45 percent
of the aggregate marks of the written examination (a number
equivalent to the number of vacancies) only will be eligible to be
called for to be interviewed by a Board of Interview approved by
the Public Service Commission. The interview will be confined to
the scrutiny of certificates and the physical fitness for the post.

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1653
08. Conditions of Examination :
(i) Examination Fees :
The fee for this examination is Rs.1,000. This fee should
be paid at any of the Divisional Secretariats or the District
Secretariats in the Island before the closing date for
applications with instructions for crediting to the Revenue
Code 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examinations. One edge of the receipt in the name of the
candidate obtained from the Divisional Secretariat or the
District Secretariat should be affixed to the relevant cage
in one’s application form. The fee paid for this examination
will not be refunded fully or partly for any reason
whatsoever. Keeping a photocopy of the receipt in
support of payment of money will be useful.
(ii) Submitting Applications :
The applications prepared in accordance with the
specimen form annexed to this Notification should be
sent by registered post to reach the Auditor General on or
before 12 September 2014 or should be handed over to
the Postal Branch Counter at the Head Office before such
date. Any applications received after the above date will
be rejected. The application form should be prepared
with Heads 01 to 05 in the first page and 06 and 09 in the
second page and the balance in pages 03 and 04. The
information relating to that should be filled clearly in
one’s handwriting. The applications which do not conform
to the specimen and the applications with incomplete
information will be rejected without giving notice.
Keeping a photocopy of the application will be useful.
Confirmation of the completed application with the
specimen application in the Examination Notification
should be examined. Otherwise the application will be
rejected.
In the preparation of the application, the name of the
examination appearing in the heading, in the case of
applications in Sinhala, should be written in English in
addition to Sinhala and the case of applications in Tamil,
should be written in English in addition to Tamil.
09. Admission to the Examination :
(a) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
Admission Cards to all candidates, whose applications
have been accepted. Immediately after the issue of the
Admission Cards to the candidates, the Department of
Examinations will publish a newspaper notice to that
effect. If the Admission Card is not received 2 or 3 days
after the publication of the newspaper notice, it should
be brought to the notice of Department of Examinations
as specified in such notice. In such instance you are
informed to make enquiries from the Department of
Examinations by giving your full name, address, the
National Identity Card Number and the name of the
examination. If you are a candidate from an area outside
Colombo, it is appropriate to fax a letter to the fax number
given in the notice, giving your fax number for sending
the Admission Card to you by fax. It is useful to keep
ready the copy of the application, the copy of the receipt
for the examination fee and the registration slip received
for the posting of the application, to be produced if
required in making such enquires. The candidates
presenting themselves for the examination should produce
the Admission Cards with the attested signature to the
Supervisor of the Examination Centre. Any candidate
who fails to produce his/her Admission Card will not be
permitted to sit the examination.
(b) The attention of the candidates is drawn to the set of
rules to be followed by all the candidates published in
paragraph (II A) of Part II of the Ordinary Gazette.
(c) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
mediums and any change of the medium applied for will
not be permitted.
(d) The following documents only will be accepted for
proving the identity of the candidates to the Supervisor
of the Examination Hall, in the examinations held by the
Department of Examinations.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons
(ii) Valid Passport
(e) The issue of an Admission Card for the examination to a
candidate does not indicate that he or she has fulfilled the
qualifications to sit the examination.
(f) All candidates are bound to abide by the rules laid down
by the Commissioner General of Examinations for holding
examinations. In case of violation of those rules he or she
is liable to punishment meted out by the Commissioner
General of Examinations.
(g) A Results Sheet consisting of a number of candidates
equal to the number of existing vacancies out of the
candidates who have qualified in the written examinations
will be given to the Secretary to the Public Service
Commission. Publication in the Website
www.results.exams.gov.lk will be done by the Department
of Examinations.
10. The Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, the
Circulars relating to the Public Service issued from time to time and
the Minute on Sri Lanka Audit Service and the conditions in the
amendments made thereto are applicable to this post.
11. If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his / her candidature is
liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or after the
examination. If any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is
found to be false within his knowledge or if he / she has willfully
suppressed a material fact, he/she will be liable to dismissal from
the Public Service.

<!-- page 40 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1654
12. The right either for filling / not filling a part or all the vacancies
rests with the Public Service Commission.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
H.A.S. SAMARAWEERA,
Auditor General.
Auditor General’s Department,
No.306/72, Polduwa Road,
Battaramulla,
01st August, 2014.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
L
IMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT OF
SUPERINTENDENTS  OF AUDIT CLASS II GRADE II OF THE SRI LANKA
AUDIT SERVICE – 2014
(For office use only)
The Medium of Language in which
You are sitting the Examination
Sinhala -  2
 Tamil -  3
English -  4
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
01. (i) Name with Initials :–––––––––––.
(in English Block Capitals)
E.g. GUNAWARDHANA, M.G .B.S.K.
(ii) Names denoted by Initials :–––––––––––.
(in English Block Capitals)
02. (i) Present Branch and Address :–––––––––––.
(Any change in the Address should be notified immediately)
(ii) T elephone Number :
03. Sex :
(Female – 1, Male -0)
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
04. National Identity Card Number :
05. (i) Your present Service and relevant Grade, Class and Segment
:–––––––––––.
(ii) Give your Consolidated Monthly Salary as at 12 September
2014  :–––––––––––.
(iii) Date of your appointment to the Auditor General’s
Department and the continuous period of service completed
in this Department as at 12 September 2014 :–––––––––.
(iv) Give the Medium of Language in which you passed the
qualifying examination for entry to the Audit Examiners’
Service / Public Management Assistants’ Service  :––––––
06. Certificate of the Candidate :
I declare that the information given in this application is true to
the best of my knowledge and belief. I also agree to abide by the
rules of the examination laid down by the Commissioner General of
Examinations and any decision that may be taken to cancel my
candidature prior to, during or after the examination, if it is found
that I am ineligible according to the conditions of the examination.
––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
07. Affix the receipt for the payment of money (Retain a photocopy
of the receipts with you) :
(i) Number :––––––––––––.
(ii) Date :––––––––––––.
(iii) Place of Payment :––––––––––––.
(iv) Amount Paid  : Rs. :––––––––––––.
08. Certificate of the Supervisory Officer :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ……………… forwarding
this application placed the signature on the application in my
presence.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Supervisory Officer.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
09. Certificate of the Head of Department :
I hereby certify that the information given by Mr./Mrs./
Miss………………………………….. forwarding this application,
in cages 04 (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of the application is correct according
to the records available in the Department and that he / she is
eligible to sit this examination in accordance with the rules specified
in the Gazette Notification.
–––––––––––––,
For Auditor General.
Date :––––––––––––.
Any changes to the Medium of Language indicated for sitting
the examination will not be permitted after the expiry of the
last date for receiving applications.
08–662/1

<!-- page 41 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1655
FIRST  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS  IN  SRI  LANKA  ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE,
SRI  LANKA  ENGINEERING  SERVICE,  SRI  LANKA  SCIENTIFIC SERVICE  AND SRI  LANKA  ARCHITECTURAL
SERVICE  SECOND  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS IN  SRI  LANKA   ADMINISTRATIVE
SERVICE  AND  THE  SECOND  LANGUAGE  TEST  FOR  OFFICERS  IN  ALL  THE  SERVICE -  2014 (I)
IT is hereby notified that First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka Eng ineering
Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service and Sri Lanka Architectural Service and the Second Language test for the officers in all the Service
2014(I), will be held in Colombo during weekends from 06th September 2014 to 14th September 2014, by the Director General, Sri Lanka
Institute of Development Administration, under the supervision and direction of Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affa irs
and the Second Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service will be held in the month Octobe r 2014
(Examination date shall be informed latter).
02. Efficiency Bar Examinations and Second Language Proficiency Tests which are due to be held in respect of the above
services will be as follows:
Serial Name of the Examination Code
No.
1. 1 st Efficiency Bar Examination and Second Language Proficiency SLAS1
Test for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service
2. 1 st Efficiency Bar Examination and Second Language Proficiency SLES
Test for officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service
3. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination and Second Language Proficiency SLSS
Test for officers in Sri Lanka Scientific Service
4. 1 st Efficiency Bar Examination and Second Language Proficiency SLArS
Test for officers in Sri Lanka Architectural Service
5. 2nd  Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka SLAS2
Administrative Service
03. Officers may appear separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, it is compulsory t o
pass the Efficiency Bar Examinations within the prescribed period.
04. This examination will be conducted by the Director General of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration and the
candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by him with regard to the same. Candidates will be subjected to a ny
punishment imposed by Disciplinary Authority for violation of these rules and regulations.
05. Applications for the examination can strictly be made online through www.slida.lk. the official web site of the Sri Lanka
Institute of Development Administration. It is possible to commence the filling of application by selecting the relevant examination from
the sub menu “apply online” at the right side of websites main page. Filling of applications is strictly allowed during the period from 8.00
a.m. on 15.08.2014 up to 12.00 midnight on 29.08.2014.
06. Examination Fees .– The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time need not to pay the examination fees.
Although a candidate applied for the examination and did not sit, that also will be considered as one sitting. For subsequent s ittings,
officers should pay the examination fee in the following manner.
Officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service should pay the examination fee considering that the First Efficiency Bar Examination
and Second Language Proficiency Test as one Examination and Second Efficiency Bar Examination as another examination. Accordingly,
Rs. 1000 should be paid if it is applied for more than one subject of the First Efficiency Bar Examination and Second Language Proficiency
Test. Rs. 1000 should be paid if it is applied for more than one subject of the Second Efficiency Bar Examination. Rs. 500 should be paid
if it is applied only for one subject of the First Efficiency Bar Examination and Rs. 500  should be paid if it is applied only for one subject
of the Second Efficiency Bar Examination.
The Officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service and Architectural Service should pay Rs. 1000, if they
are applying for more than one subject of the First Efficiency Bar Examination and. Rs. 500 should be paid, if they are sitting for only one
subject.
Examination fee should be paid by any post office all over the island (except sub post offices) to be credited to the SLIDA
account and the number of the receipt issued should be indicated in the relevant cages of the application. When filling the application for

<!-- page 42 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1656
inland telegraphic money order formet 85 for payment of money to SLIDA account, "SLIDA" should be mentioned as the recipient. I n
the meantime, the code name of the relevant examination should be indicated at the place for the recipient's address. (The code  names
should be as mentioned in section 02).
Further, when crediting money to the account, the application should be filled including the name of the applicant as the
remitter and the N.I.C. Number of the applicant at the space for the address of the remitter.
07. Getting Admission for First Efficiency Bar Examination for Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka Engineering
Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service and Sri Lanka Architectural Service and the Second Language test for all the Service .– When the
application filled online is submitted, the candidate will be issued a confirmation number and the candidate should keep it for  further
inquiries. Candidates will be able to get their admission card of the examination by way of following the instructions indicated in the web
page to which the candidate will have the access once the application duly perfected is sent online. The candidate should get a  printed
copy of the admission card and get his signature certified by the respective Head of the Department or a deputy authorized by t he Head
for the purpose. The admission card certified in this manner should be submitted to the Supervisor of the examination. A copy o f
admission card certified as for that manner should be submitted to department head for the purpose of attaching to the personal  file of
the candidates.
08. Getting Admissions for Second Efficiency Bar Examination for Sri Lanka Administrative Serivce .– Admissions of Second
Efficiency Bar will be sent by E-mail to the candidates and that will be informed to the candidates by short message service (SMS) to their
mobiles are the candidates are emphasized to be careful to enter the accurate E-mail address and the Mobile Number in the relevant cage
of the application.
09. Any clarification regarding the process for submitting applications can be obtained through the Telephone Number 011 -
5980236 of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration. Communication can be made through this line from 8.30 a.m up to 4.30
p.m during working days of the week from 15.08.2014 up to 29.08.2014.
10. Head of Departments should grant duty leave for the officers who possess admissions enabling them to sit for the
examination. If the Departments Heads need to get their candidature confirmed, it can be done through the Telephone Number 011-5980236.
Candidates will not be paid traveling expenses for appearing for the examination.
11. Identity of Candidates.– Candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of the following documents should be submitted to the supervisor.
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of  Persons.
(ii) A valid Passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Director General of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration.
12. The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media. If it is found that a candidate has appeared for the
examination in a language medium that he/she is not entitled to, the candidature of such applicant will be cancelled.
13. Scheme of Examination.– Subjects and the syllabus of each Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows.
13.1 1st Efficiency Bar Examination and Second Language Proficiency Test for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service
(Appendix "C" of Sri Lanka Administrative Service Minute published in the Gazette No: 1419/03 dated 14.11.2005)
The subjects of the examination are given below :
Serial Subjects Duration Subject
Number Number
01 Constitutional  Law  and 03 hours 01
Administrative Law
02 The Legal Systems of Sri Lanka 03 hours 02
03 Criminal Law & Evidence Law 03 hours 03
04 Administration 03 hours 04
05 Economics 03 hours 05
06 Sociology 03 hours 06
07 English 03 hours 07

<!-- page 43 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1657
13.1.1 Constitutional Law and Administrative Law (Subject No. 01) A question paper based on the following:
(i) The structure of the Constitution of Sri Lanka with historical development and the Second Republic Constitution.
(ii) The Executive, President of the Republic, Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister, Central Government
Departments and the Public Service.
(iii) Administration of Justice.
(iv) Judicial control over Administration.
(v) Directive Principles of the State Policy and Fundamental Duties.
(vi) Delegated Legislation.
(vii) Liability of the State and the Public Authorities.
(viii) Fundamental Rights.
13.1.2. The Legal Systems in Sri Lanka (Subject No. 02) A question paper based on the following:
(i) The Legal History of Sri Lanka
(ii) The Organization of the Courts
(iii) The Courts Ordinance (Chapter 6)
(iv) The Act of No. 44 of 1971 Administration of Justice
13.1.3. Criminal Law and Evidence Law (Subject No. 03) A question paper based on the following:
(i) The Penal Code
(ii) The Evidence Ordinance.
Note: A candidate will be required to obtain 35% of marks for each of the subjects mentioned under 13.1.1., 13.1.2. and
13.1.3. above and an average of 40% of the total marks allocated for the 03 subjects.
13.1.4. Administration (Subject No. 04)
A question paper based on the following:
(i) Office and Field Organization and Methods;
(ii) Procedural rules published by the Public Service Commission, in the Gazette Extra-ordinary  of the Government
No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009 and following chapters of the Establishment Code (Chapters VI, VII, IX, XI, XXIII,
XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII and XLVIII).
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
13.1.5. Economics (Subject No. 05)/ Sociology (Subject No. 06)
Candidates are required to sit only for one subject out of Economic & Sociology.
13.1.5.1. Economics (Subject No. 05) A paper based on the following:
(i) Principles of Economics with special reference to the theories of Value,  Production and Distribution;
(ii) Money, Financial Activity and Theory of Money;
(iii) The Economic Structure of Sri Lanka.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
13.1.5.2. Sociology (Subject No. 06)
A question paper based on the following (with Special reference to Sri Lanka.)
(i) Social Structure, Organization and Functions;
(ii) Human Relationships and Groupings;
(iii) Kinship, Marriage and the Family;
(iv) Rural and Urban Society;
(v) Social Stratification and Differentiations;
(vi) Social Control;
(vii) Culture, Religion, Morals and Values.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
13.1.6. English (Subject No. 07)
The syllabus for this subject will be as follows.

<!-- page 44 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1658
(i) LISTENING AND SPEAKING SKILLS
The candidate should possess the ability to function effectively in the following Language functions.
· General Greetings and Introductions
· Giving and Getting information
· Advising, Suggesting and Expressing Opinions
· Describing Events and Situations
· Telephone skills
· Interviewing skills
· Meeting
· Listening and Note Taking skills
(ii) ENGLISH GRAMMER
A suitable level of proficiency on the following forms of grammar in the Spoken and the Written language is
expected from the candidate.
· Tense and Number
· Sentences (Simple/Compound/Complex/Compound Complex)
· Relative Clauses
· Reported Speech
· Adjectives and Adverbs
· Determiners
· Prepositions
(iii) WRITING SKILLS
The knowledge on the modern formats and styles of writing is tested in this area of study
· Internal modes of Communication
· Formal correspondence skills
· Writing Descriptions/Explanations
· Summary writing skills
· Report Writing skills
· Meeting Minutes/ Agendas/Invitations
· Comprehension
(iv) READING SKILLS
Candidate's ability to comprehend a printed text, infer meaning and verbal/ written interpretation is expected.
· Reading and understanding the specific and general meaning of a printed text;
· Reading and Interpretation (verbal/written).
· Understanding the cohesion and coherence of a passage.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
13.2 The Second Efficiency Bar Examination for officers of Sri Lanka Administrative Service (Appendix "D" of Sri Lanka
Administrative Service minute published in Gazette No: 1419/03 dated 14.11.2005)
This Examination will consist of the following subjects :
Serial No. Subjects Duration Subject  No.
01 Economics and Social Policy (with special reference to Sri Lanka) 03 hours 08
02 The Process of Development Administration (with special 03 hours 09
reference to Sri Lanka);
03 Management and Organization. 03 hours 10
04 Public Sector Financial Management 03 hours 11
13.2.1 Economics and Social Policy (with special reference to Sri Lanka) : (Subject No. 08)
A paper based on the factors which influence the formulation of economic and social policy in Sri Lanka. The
application of the principles of Economics and Sociology in recent economical, social and political history of Sri
Lanka.
Note: A Candidate will be required to obtain a at least of 40% of marks for this subject.

<!-- page 45 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1659
13.2.2 The Process of Development Administration (with special reference to Sri Lanka): (Subject No. 09)
A paper based on the Institution of Development Administration, their working and their inter-relationships with
special reference to:-
(i) The Machinery of Government in Sri Lanka;
(ii) The constitutional background of the machinery of Government in Sri Lanka;
(iii) Provincial Councils and Local Government;
(iv) People’s Organizations;
(v) Public Corporations.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
13.2.3 Management and Organization : (Subject No. 10)
A paper based on the following
(i) The principles of management and organization;
(ii) The application of these principles to problems and issues in the public sector.
(iii) Modern tools and techniques of management.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
13.2.4 Public Sector FInancial Management : (Subject No. 11) :
A question paper based on the following :-
(i) Fiscal Governance in Sri Lanka;
Constitutional Provisions Relating to Public Financial Management
Parliamentary Control over Public Finance
Meaning of Fund
Consolidated Fund and its operation
Meaning and Methods of Appropriation
Contingencies Fund
Other Funds and their Operation
Government Revenue
Powers and Functions of the Minister of Finance
Powers and Functions of the Treasury
Warrants and Imprest Authority
Auditor General, his Powers and Functions
Committee on Public Expenditure
Committee on Public Enterprises
(ii) Appointment of Accounting Officer, Chief Accounting Officers and Revenue Accounting Officers and their Powers
and Function
(iii) Internal Audit
(iv) Public Expenditure Planning and Management;
Identification of Organizational Objectives and Functions
Identification of Government Policies, Goals Targets and the Work Development
Programmes
Planning and Appraisal of Development Projects and Programmes and  Prioritization of them
Formulation and Finalization of Annual Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure
(v) Variations of Approved Estimates of Expenditure Application of Virement Procedure
Management of Public Sector Cadres and Salaries
Total Cost Estimates and Revisions
Supplementary Estimates
(vi) Losses and Waivers of Govt. Properties
(vii) Miscellaneous Accounting Matters
(viii) Delegation of Functions for Financial Control
(ix) Custody of Public Money and Bank Accounts Procedure
(x) Govt. Procurement Procedure,
Procurement of Goods, Services and Works
Composition, Appointment, Power and Functions of Tender
Boards and Technical Evaluation Committees
Tender Evaluation Procedure .
Management of Donor Funded Projects.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.

<!-- page 46 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1660
13.3. First Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service (See the Appendix "iii" of Sri Lanka
Engineering Service Minute, Published in the Extraordinary Gazette dated 11th November, 2013)
First Efficiency Bar examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Scientific Service (See the Appendix "a" of Sri Lanka
Scientific Service Minute, Published in the Extraordinary Gazette dated 07th June, 1988)
First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Architectural Service (See the Appendix "a" of Sri Lanka
Architectural Service Minute, Published in the Extraordinary Gazette dated 31st August, 1995)
Subjects of these examinations are as follows :
Subject Duration Subject  Number
Financial Systems 03 hours 12
Administration 03 hours 04
13.3.1 Financial Systems : (Subject No. 12)
A question paper consisting of questions based on following facts.
(i) Financial Regulations of Government of Sri Lanka - V olume I (Except Chapter X)
(ii)  Estimates of the current year. Eg. Preparations of estimates, votes, financial systems and appropriation acts.
Note.– Candidates are required to secure at least 40% of marks for this subject.
13.3.2 Administration : (Subject No. 04)
A question paper consisting of questions base on following facts.
(i) Office and field organization and methods ;
(ii) Procedural rules published by the Public Service Commission, in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Government
No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009 and following chapters of the Establishment Code (Chapters VI,
VII,IX,XI,XXIII,XXV ,XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII and XLVIII).
Note.– Candidates are required to secure at least 40% of marks for this subject.
13.4 Second Language Test for the all services :
This examination consists of two parts as written test and oral test. Only the candidates who pass the written test
shall be called for the oral test corresponding to the relevant subject. A candidate will be required to obtain at least
40% marks to pass the written examination. The subjects of the written test are as follows.
Subject Duration Subject Number
Second Language  Test - Sinhala 02 hours 13
Second Language Test - Tamil 02 hours 14
Second Language Test - English 02 hours 15
Note:- The second language in respect of an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in Sinhala medium shall be Tamil
Language. The second language in respect of an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in Tamil Medium shall
be Sinhala Language. In the meantime, an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in English Language is required
to pass Sinhala & Tamil Language Tests.
14. The timetable of the examination is as follows :
Serial Name  of  the Subject Subject Date Time
No Examination No.
01 1
st  Efficiency  Bar Constitutional Law and 01 06.09.2014 9.00 -12.00
Examination for Administrative Law
, Officers in Sri  Lanka Legal Systems of Sri Lanka 02 06.09.2014 13.00 -16.00
Administrative Criminal Law and Evidence 03 07.09.2014 9.00 -12.00
Service Law
Administration 04 07.09.2014 13.00- 16.00
Economics 05 13.09.2014 9.00 -12.00
Sociology 06 13.09.2014 9.00 -12.00
English 07 13.09.2014 13.00- 16.00

<!-- page 47 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1661
02 1 st  Efficiency  Bar Financial Systems 12 07.09.2014 9.00 -12.00
Examination  for Administration
Officers in Sri Lanka 04 07.09.2014 13.00- 16.00
Engineering Service
03 1 st Efficiency Bar Financial Systems 12 07.09.2014 9.00 -12.00
Examination  for Administration
Officers in Sri Lanka 04 07.09.2014 13.00- 16.00
Scientific Service
04 1 st  Efficiency  Bar Financial Systems 12 07.09.2014 9.00 -12.00
Examination  for Administration
Officers in Sri Lanka 04 07.09.2014 13.00- 16.00
Architectural Service
05 2nd  Efficiency  Bar Economic & Social Policy 08
Examination for The Process of Development 09
Officers in Sri Lanka Administration
Administration Management  and 10  will be informed later
Service Organization
Public  Sector  Financial 11
Management
06 Second Language Test Second Language Proficiency 13
Test - Sinhala 14.09.2014 09.00-11.00
Second Language Proficiency 14
Test - Tamil 14.09.2014 11.30-13.30
Second Language Proficiency 15
Test - English 14.09.2014 14.00-16.00
15. 15.1 Exemptions from the requirement of passing the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examinations will be made in the
following manner.
Examination Subject Qualifications required to be exempted
1 st Efficiency Bar Examination Constitutional Law and Administrative Law Should be a Barister, Advocate in a Supreme
and Second Language Test for Legal Systems of Sri Lanka Court, Graduate in Law from a university
Officers in Sri Lanka Criminal Law and evidence Law
Administrative Service Economics/Socialogy Should be a holder of a Degree in Economics
or Sociology
Second Language Test - Sinhala (i) Should have passed the first language
Second Language Test - Tamil or second language at G.CE. (O/L).
(ii) Should have successfully completed a
basic or higher language course of the
Department of Official Languages.
(iii) Should have successfully completed a
language course of Department of Official
Languages at preliminary or higher level.
(iv) Should have passed the optional Sinhala
or Tamil subject at G.C.E. (O/L)
Second Language Test - English Should have obtained an ordinary pass or
above for English language at G. C. E. (O/L)
Note: Officers who have been recruited on or after 02.01.2012 are not required to sit for the Second Language Proficiency
Test mentioned in this Examination Notification in order to acquire proficiency in other official language according the
provisions of their letters of appointment, but they should acquire the proficiency in other official language as per the
provisions of Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014.
Serial Name  of  the Subject Subject Date Time
No Examination No.

<!-- page 48 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1662
15.2 As per the order granted by Public Service Commission, Officers who have been recruited to the Sri Lanka Administrative
Service between 1st July 2012 and 1st January 2015 will be released from the subjects mentioned in the Sri Lanka
Administrative Service Minute which published in the Extraordinary Gazette Number 1,842/2 and dated 23rd December
2013, based on the passing of subjects of Efficiency Bar Examination mentioned in this Gazette notification as follows :
The subject appear in this Gazette notification The subject appear in the Service Minute dated 23.12.2013
Economics (First (I) E. B. Examination) Economics and Sociology (First (I) EB Examination)
Sociology (First (I) EB Examination) Economics and Sociology (First (I) EB Examination)
Public Sector Financial Management (Second (II) Public Sector Financial Management and Procurement (First (I) EB
EB Examination) Examination)
English (First (I) EB Examination) Link Language Proficiency (Second (II) EB Examination)
16. Issuance of results: The results of all the candidates who have applied/ sat for this examination shall be published in the web
site of the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs. Publishing of the results in the Ministry website shall be cons idered as
an issuance of results to the candidates, according to the Circular Number SP/SB/1/13 and dated 13th October 2009 of Secretary to the
President on the Electronic Communication. Accordingly, Department Heads shall include the relevant copies of the results sheets of the
examination to the personal files of the officers. It is not allowed to re-scrutinizing the results of the examination.
17. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this Examination Notification, the Sinhala
text shall prevail.
18. Any matter not referred to herein will be decided by Secretary to the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
P. B.  ABEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
01st of August, 2014.
08–661
–––––––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  EXAMINATIONS  –  SRI  LANKA
Final Certificate Examination for Ahadhiya/Al-Qur’an
Schools on Islamic Studies – 2014
(Equivalent to Daham Pasal Final Certificate Examination)
RULES and Regulations.– The above examination will be conducted
by the Commissioner General of Examinations during November,
2014. Subjects and the syllabus for the examination are given in
Annexure I.
2. Centres for Examination.– Examination Centres will be set up
in towns indicated in Annexure II of this notification. Centres in
any town will be cancelled if sufficient number of candidates has
not requested that town. In case of such cancellation of any town
the candidates will be transferred to centres set up in the nearest
town.
3. Language Medium. – This examination will be conducted in
Tamil, Sinhala and English medium. However, a candidate should
appear for all the subjects in one and the same medium.
4. Eligibility.– Every applicant should have fulfilled at least one
of the following requirements :–
4.1 Should be a student in Grade 10 or Grade 11 in an
Ahadhiya School registered with the Department of
Muslim Religious and Cultural Affairs ;
or
4.2 Should be a student who has completed the Senior Grade
Al-Quaran Madrasa Syllabus approved by the
Department of Muslim Religious and Cultural Affairs ;
or
4.3 Should be a student who has passed the subjects of
Islam and Arabic in the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination
conducted by the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka.
Note :
(i) Applications for this examination should be certified
by the Principal of the Ahadhiya School or by the
Principal of the Al-Qur'an Madrasa or by the Principal
of School to the effect that the candidate has fulfilled
the requirements mentioned under paragraph 4 above.

<!-- page 49 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1663
(ii) An applicant can submit application for this
examination only through the Principal of an Ahadhiya
School or the Principal of a Senior Al-Qur'an Madrasa
or School.
5. In the event of any registered Ahadhiya School, Senior Qur'an
Madrasa or a School does not receive the application forms and
instructions by post on time the Principal concerned should contact
the –
Commissioner General of Examinations,
(Organization and Foreing Examinations Branch),
Department of Examinations,
P. O. Box 1503,
Colombo.
on or before 29th of August, 2014.
5.1 Applications should be prepared in duplicate. The
original should be forwarded to the Department of
Examinations while the duplicate should be kept filed
in the relevant Institution.
5.2 The closing date of applications will be 15th of
September, 2014.
5.3 Applications should be clearly and legibly filled in.
Inaccurately or Illegibly filled applications and those
that are received after the closing date will be rejected.
5.4 Duly perfected applications should be sent under
registered cover to the -
Commissioner General of Examinations,
(Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch),
Department of Examinations,
P. O. Box 1503,
Colombo.
5.5 Applications will not be acknowledged.
5.6 The name of the Examination "Ahadiya/Al Quran
Madrasa Final Certificate Exam – 2014" and the chosen
town for the exam should be clearly written on the top
left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the
application.
5.7 No document should be annexed to the application.
The Principals of the Institutions should certify to the
effect that the applicant holds the stipulated
qualifications.
6.Mode of Payment :
6.1 The examination fee for all four subjects is Rs. 150 and
the fee for one repeat subject is Rs. 50. No examination
fee will be charged from those who sit for this examination
for the first time.
6.2 The amount which is equal to the total Examination fees,
should be paid at any post office and the receipt obtained
should be firmly attached to the application.
7. Admission Cards. – Commissioner General of Examinations
shall issue the Admission Cards through the relevant Heads of the
Institutions. They will handover admission cards to the candidates.
7.1 In the event a candidate fails to produce his/her
Admission Card to the supervisor on the first instance
of sitting the examination or attempting to sit the
Examination at a Centre other than the one allocated to
him/her by the Commissioner General of Examinations,
his/her candidature can be cancelled.
7.2 The specimen signature of the candidate should be
attested by the Head of the relevant institution or by
an officer in permanent Government service drawing a
salary not less than Rs. 240,360 p. a., or by an Islamic
Priest of Mosque.
7.3 If Admission Card is not received by at least 7 days
before the date of commencement of the examination
the Head of the institution concerned should notify
the Commissioner General of Examinations accordingly.
In all such instances, information should be provided
as indicated below :
(a) Name of Examination,
(b) Name of Ahadhiya School/Madrasa/School, and
the computer number provided to the school,
(c) Name of candidate in full and Address,
(d) The town which is applied for to the examination,
(e) Post Office from which the application was
posted,
(f) Registration number and date.
8. Personnel Identification. – Every applicant should prove his/
her identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor on all instances he/
she appears for the examination by producing acceptable identity
documents.
8.1 National Identity Card,
8.2 Valid Passport,
8.3 Postal Identity Card.
9. Issue of the Examination Results and Confirmation of the
Result :
9.1 This examination consists of four papers. A candidate
who passes in all four papers in one and the same
sitting will be considered to have passed the
Examination.
9.2 However, if a candidate gets passed in 3 subjects and
fails to get through in the fourth subject in one and the
same sitting he/she will be allowed referral.

<!-- page 50 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1664
Such a candidate should get through the referred subject
within the subsequent two examinations in order to be
considered to have passed in this certificate examination.
(This will be effective from 2011 Examination).
Referred candidates should apply and sit only for the
referred subject.
9.3 Each of the four question papers carries 100 marks and
grades will be awarded as shown below :
Range of marks Grade Symbol
0 – 34 Fail F
35- 54 Ordinary pass S
55 – 69 Credit pass C
70 – 100 Distinction pass D
9.4 Release of the Results.– Details of examination results
will be posted to the relevant Heads of Institutions.
10. Certificates.– Action will be taken to issue a certificate to
every candidate passing the examination.
11. Re-scrutiny of Answer - scripts .– Opportunity will be
provided for the re-scrutiny of answer-scripts if requested within
30 days from the date of issue of examination resutls. Such request
should be made through the respective Heads of Institutions, using
the specimen form issued by this Department for this purpose.
A specified fee must be paid.
Such fee will be refunded only in instances where any alteration
is made to the examination results. Applicants or their
representatives will not be granted permission to examine the answer
scripts for any reason what-so-ever.
12. All applicants are bound to act in accordance with the above
conditions. Decision of the Commissioner General of Examinations
on any matter that is not dealt with in this notification will be the
final.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil
and English text of this examination notification the Sinhala text
shall private.
W. M. N. J. P
USHPAKUMARA,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla,
01st August, 2014.
ANNEXURE 1
Subjects and the prescribed Syllabus for the Examination :
There will be four question papers, of three hour duration each.
Structure of the question papers and marks allocation for the
questions will be according to the gazette notification published on
Gazette No. 1,358 of 10th September, 2004.
F
IRST PAPER
1.Aqeedha, Sharee'ah (Principles and Fundamentals in Islam) and
Arabic Language.
1.1 Aqeedha - General understandings (Al IIahiyath,
Annubuwath, Arroohaniyyath and Assam'iyyath)
1.2 Sections of Aqeedha
* Aqeeda of Ahlussunnah Wal Jama'ath
* Few other Aqeeda sections such as : Jabariya, Kadariyya,
Murjiya, Mu'tazila and Shee'ah
1.3 Tawheedh and Shirk
* Iman and Kufr
* Riddath, Nifak
* History of revelation and compilation of the Qur'an
* Use of Al-Qur'an as a source of Law
* Sunna and history of its collection
* Utilization of Sunna as source of Law
* History of Hadees and the contribution of Muhaddis
* Details relating to Ijthihad
* Ijma as a secondary source
* Kiyas as a secondary source
* History of Fikhu and its Imams.
1.4 Arabic Language :
* Writing with proper shapes of Alphabets
* Writing of small Sentences
* Writing of Arabic words having relation to the subject of
Islam
* Writing of specific Qur'an suras, verses and Hathees.
S
ECOND  PAPER
2. Al-Fiqhul Islami (Islamic Law)
2.1 Details Relating to Ibadath
* Kinds of Ibathath
* Thaharath
2.2 Najees and its categories :
* Methods of cleaning Najees
* Water and its categories
* Wulu, Thayammam and - Procedures existing relating to
bathing
2.3 Zakath :
* Significance
* Rules and Regulations

<!-- page 51 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1665
* Collection and distribution
* Minimizing poverty through Zakath and distribution of
 Wealth
2.4 Assawm (Fasting) :
* Significance
* Rules and Regulations and Usefulness
2.5 Hajj :
x Significance
x Rules and Regulations
x Usefulness
2.6 x Hajj - Method of Performance
x Farlu, Wajibu, Sunnath
x Hajj performed in addition to Farlu Hajj
2.7 Attention and procedures in Islam relating to food Dressing
and Dwellings.
2.8 Understanding of Jihadh.
2.9 Kurbani and methods of slaughter
2.10 Oaths and V ows.
2.11 Details relating to Muamalath :
x Dignity of earning
x Main transaction (Trading)
x Other transactions ( Eg. Borrowing, Rent)
x  Wakfu, Wasiyiyath, Warasath (Public Property,
  Testamentary Property, Inhertited Property)
2.12 Position of man and woman in Islam :
x Marriage Laws in Islam and their uses
x Family life in Islam
x Husband and wife
x Rights and duties of parents and Children
x Talaq and Idhdha
2.13 Jinayath :
x Hudood, Kisas and Ta'zeer
T
HIRD  PAPER
3. Seera and Tarigh
3.1 Socio-Religious position in Arabian Society in the period
before Islam.
3.1.1 Prophet Mohamed (Sal) :
x Life before the Nubuwwath
* Family Lineage
* Youthhood
* Noble characteristies
* Marriage
x Life between Nubuwwath and Hijrath
* Nubuwwath
* Propaganda of Islam and its outcomes
* Hijrath
x Madina Life
* Socio-Political activities
* Defensive wars and Peace Agreements
* Completion of Islam
x Position of Sahabas and their contribution towards
Islam
x History and Political contribution of Kulafa
Urrashidoon
x Period of rule by Umaiya and Abbasiya
x History of Baitul Mukaddas
x History and contributions of Sri Lankan Muslims
x Contribution of Muslims to Scientific Knowledge
x History relating to the following personalities :–
* Imam Buhari (Rah)
* Imam Shafi (Rah)
* Imam Gassali (Rah)
* Imam Abdul Cader Jeelani (Rah)
* Imam Saduli (Rah)
F
OURTH PAPER
4. Aklaq (Islamic Values)
4.1 View point of Islam on Aklaq
* Understanding Aqhlaq
* Relationship between Iman and Aqhlaq
* Relationship between Aqhlaq and Ibadath
* Purity of mind (Ikhlas)
4.2 Taqwa
* Wara'u and Suhud
* Murakaba, Muhasafa
* Shawq
4.3 Charity
* Dedication
* Gratitude
* Patience, Tolerance, accomodating, pardoning
* Politeness
* Appreciation of time
* Safeguarding organs in the body : mouth, eye, ear and sex
organs
* Respecting others
* Justice and honesty
* Important moral values visible among youth
* Harmonious living with people of other faiths
4.4 Islamic Jurisprudence

<!-- page 52 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2014
1666
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
ANNEXURE II
Name of towns and their town Numbers where Examination
Centres will be Established :
Town Town District
No. No.
Colombo District 01
Colombo (Central) 01
Bambalapitiya 02
Gampaha District 02
Thihariya 03
Mabola 04
Malwana 05
Negombo 06
Kal-Eliya 07
Kalutara District 03
Panadura 08
Kalutara 09
Aluthgama 10
Galle District 04
Galle 11
Matara District 05
Weligama 12
Matara 13
Tangalle District 06
Hambantota 14
Kegalle District 07
Mawanella 15
Warakapola 16
Kannattota 17
Kurunegala District 08
Kuliyapitiya 18
Kurunegala 19
Melsiripura 20
Polgahawela 21
Kekunagolla 22
Puttalam District 09
Nuraichcholai 23
Puttalam 24
Chilaw 25
Anuradhapura District 10
Anuradhapura 26
Kekirawa 27
Galenbindunuwewa 28
Polonnaruwa District 11
Kaduruwela 29
Matale District 12
Matale 30
Kandy District 13
Kandy 31
Nawalapitiya 32
Deltota 33
Gelioya 34
Nuwara Eliya District 14
Nuwara Eliya 35
Ratnapura District 15
Eheliyagoda 36
Balangoda 37
Badulla District 16
Badulla 38
Welimada 39
Monaragala District 17
Bibila 40
Ampara District 18
Akkaraipattu 41
Pottuvil 42
Kalmunai 43
Sammanthurai 44
Irakkamam 45
Nintavur 46
Oluvil 47
Batticaloa District 19
Kattankudy 48
Eravur 49
Valachchenai 50
Trincomalee District 20
Mutur 51
Kinniya 52
Trincomalee 53
Vavuniya District 21
Vavuniya 54
Mannar District 22
Mannar 55
Mullaitivue District 23
Mullaitivu 56
Kilinochchi District 24
Kilinochchi 57
Jaffna District 25
Jaffna 58
08-647
Town Town District
No. No.