

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2012
511
511
wxl 1"751 - 2012 ud¾;= 23 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'03'23
No. 1,751 – FRIDAY , MARCH 23, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 514
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 515
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 30th March, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 16th
March, 2012.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEW ARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Parts I-III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,750 of 16.03.2012 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2012
512
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2012
513
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2012
514
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Births and Deaths
COLOMBO   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 23rd day  of April,
2012.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
02nd day of March, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Colombo Colombo Post of Medical Registrar of Births District Secretary/Additional Registrar
and Deaths of New Bazaar Division General, District Secretariat, Dam
Street, Colombo 12
Colombo Colombo Post of Medical Registrar of Births District Secretary/Additional Registrar
and Deaths of Houltsdrof Division General, District Secretariat, Dam
Street, Colombo 12
Colombo Colombo Post of Medical Registrar of Births District Secretary/Additional Registrar
and Deaths of Maradana Division General, District Secretariat, Dam
Street, Colombo 12
03–854

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2012
515
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
 MINISTRY  OF  SOCIAL  SERVICES
National Institute of Social Development
BACHELOR OF SOCIAL WORK DEGREE
PROGRAMME - 2012
(Sri Lanka School of Social Work)
(Academic Year - 2012)
THE National Institute of Social Development (NISD) a statutory
body functioning under the purview of the Ministry of Social
Services conducts the Bachelor of Social Work Degree Programme.
The medium of instruction is English.
The NISD is recognized by the University Grants Commission
as a Degree Awarding Institute under section 25A, of the University
Act, No. 16 of 1978.
(a) Applications are invited for the Bachelors Degree Programme
in Social Work. The minimum requirements for University
Admissions based on the Z-score obtained at the GCE A/L
Examination of 2011 shall be the main eligibility criterion ; or
(b) Diploma in Social Work certificate holders are called for the
second year of Bachelor of Social Work degree program 2011/
2015.
In addition the performance at a Proficiency Test and a Viva
Voice both conducted in English shall be used to short list the
candidates. Why should you select
Why should you select this course ? .– There is a great demand
for professional social workers locally and internationally and
plenty of job opportunities are available in the Government, NGO
and Private Sector. Wh
y should you select the
Why should you select the National Institute of Social
Development ?. – National Institute of Social Development,
established under the Parliament Act, No. 41 of 1992 is the only
higher educational institution providing professional social work
education and training in Sri Lanka.
How to apply ?.– Applications, duly completed according to the
following format should reach our office (address given) on or
before 23.04.2012 along with a money order of Rs. 500 drawn in
favour of The Director General, National Institute of Social
Development with a self addressed stamped (Rs. 5) envelope.
The Registrar,
National Institute of Social Development,
No. 488 A, Nawala Road, Rajagiriya.
Contact : 011-2882506 - 11
011-3119597 for details.
www.nisd.lk
Write "BSW 2012" on the top left-hand corner of the envelop.
(The application to be used by both categories A & B).
N
A TIONAL INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATION FOR THE BACHELOR OF SOCIAL WORK
DEGREE PROGRAMME - 2012
1. Full Name :––––––––––.
2. Name with Initials :––––––––––. (In capital letters)
3. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––.
4. Permanent Address :––––––––––.
5. Contact Tel. No. :––––––––––.
6. Sex :––––––––––.
7. Date of Birth :––––––––––.
8. Nationality :––––––––––.
9. Educational Qualifications :
(i) G. C. E. (O/L) :
Index No. :––––––––––. Year :––––––––––.
Results :––––––––––.
(ii) ( a) G . C. E. (A/L 2011) :
Index No. :––––––––––.  Z Score :––––––––––.
Results :––––––––––.
District :––––––––––.
(b) (to be filled by the Diploma  holders/ Applicants for
the second year only)
Academic year :––––––––––.
Effective date of Diploma in Social Work :–––––––.
(iii) Highest Qualifications / Examination in English (If any) :
––––––––––.
(iv) Other Qualifications :––––––––––.
Copies of the result sheets of the GCE (O/L) and GCE (A/L)
examinations should be forwarded along with the application.
I certify that the information furnished by me is true and
accurate. I am aware that my student-ship can be cancelled,
even after the selections, if the particulars are found to be
incorrect.
––––––––––––,
Signature.
Date :––––––––––.
The Registrar,
National Institute of Social Development,
11th March, 2012.
03–899

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2012
516
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO
CLASS  III  OF THE  SRI  LANKA  ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE – 2011(2012)
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the Open Competitive Examination for recrutiment to the
posts in Class III of Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
1. In this notice "Secretary" means the "Secretary to the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs", "Service" means
the "Sri Lanka Administrative Service".
2. Written Examination.– The Examination will consist of the following question papers.
(i) General Intelligence
(ii) Essay and Precis
(iii) General Knowledge
(iv) Aptitude for Management
Date of Examination.– This examination will be held in the towns of Colombo in June, 2012. The Secretary reserves the right
to postpone or cancel this examination subject to instructions given by the Public Service Commission.
Oral Test.– The Secretary will decide the date for interview for the candidates who sat for all the papers in the written
examination and obtained a higher aggregate of marks as determined by the Public Service Commission.
3. Number of persons to be appointed and effective date of appointment will be determined as per the orders of the Public
Service Commission.
4. Conditions of Service.– A selected candidate will be appointed to Class III of the service on the general conditions governing
appointments in the Pubilc Service and on the terms and conditions set out in the Minute of the Service dated 28th October, 200 5,
(published in the Gazette Extraordinary  of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1419/3 of 14th November, 2005) and
subject to any amendments made or to be made hereafter to the Minute.
4.1 Appointments of candidates who fail to report for duty on the due date and/or refuse or evade to take up duties in a
post or in an area they are appointed to, are liable to be cancelled.
5. Structure and salary scale per month  :
Special Grade - Rs. 42,390 - 12 x 1,310 - Rs. 58,110.
Class I - Rs. 36,755 - 17 x 1,050 - Rs. 53,555.
Class II - Rs. 30,175 - 8 x 790 - Rs. 35,705.
Class III - Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - Rs. 29,385.
(Whilst the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed within 03 years from the date of appointment and 2nd Efficiency
Bar Examination within 06 years from the date of appointment, proficiency of the second official language should be achieved within 05
years from the date of appointment in terms of the provisions of Public Administration Circular 07/2007 dated 28.05.2007.)
The appointments through this examination will be made to the Class III of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
6. Health and Character.– A candidate must satisfy the Secretary that he is duly qualified in respect of health and that he has
an excellent moral character. He must possess good eye sight and be physically fit for service in any part of the island. Selected candidates
will be called upon to undergo a medical examination.
7. Eligibility.– A candidate appearing for this must :–
(i) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Have obtained a degree from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission ;
(a) The effective date of the certificate of degree should be 31.12.2011 or a date prior to that.
(iii) Not have reached 28 years of age as at 31.12.2011 ;
(iv) Have a sound moral character and be physically fit ;
(v) No person ordained in any religious sect shall be permitted to sit this examination.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2012
517
Note :–
(i) No person is allowed to sit the competitive examination for recruitment to Sri Lanka Administrative Service for more
than two sittings.
(ii) Requisite qualifications for this examination should have been completed in every aspect by 31.12.2011.
8. Examination fee. – The fee is Rs. 1,000. It should be paid before the closing date of applications at any District Secretariat/
Divisional Secretariat to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13. The receipt obtained from the District Secretariat/Divisional Secretariat
should be pasted in the relevant cage of the application form. This fee is nonrefundable. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt
with the candidate.
9. Method of Application :
(a) The application should be in the form of the specimen appended to this notification and should be prepared by the
candidate himself on paper of size 8 1/2" x 12" (A4) using both sides. It should be specially noted that the application
forms should be so prepared that cages 1.0 to 2.12 appear on the first side, of the paper and cages 3.0 to 7.0 appear in
the other side of the paper. Applications that do not comply with the specimen and that are not completed in every
aspect, shall be rejected without notice. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the application with candidate.) It is the
responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the application form perfected by him/herself complies with the
specimen given in the examination notice as otherwise the application may be rejected.
(b) The application should be in the language medium in which the candidate intends to sit the examination.
(c) The completed application form for the examination should be sent by registered post to reach the Commissioner-
General of Examinations. (Organization and Foreign Examination Branch) Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or before 23.04.2012.
The words “Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Sri Lanka Administrative Service – 2011(2012)”
should be clearly indicated on the top left-hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application. Any application
received after the closing date will not be accepted. It is essential to mention the name of examination in English Language
as well, in applications prepared in both Sinhala and Tamil media.
(d) Candidate’s signature in the application form should have been attested by a Principal of a Government School, a justice
of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces, an
Officer holding a gazetted post in the Police Service or an Officer holding a permanent post in Public Service whose
annual initial salary is more than Rs. 240,360.
(e) Any application, which is not complete in every aspect, is liable to be rejected. No complaint that an application has
been lost or delayed in post will be considered.
(f) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. A notice will be published in the newspapers by the Department of
Examinations as soon as admission cards are issued to applicants. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3
days of such an advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the manner specified
in the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the Department of
Examinations : i. e. a certified photocopy of the application form and the receipt kept at your possession, receipt of
registration and in case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the admission
cards should be sent.
10. Admission to the Examination :
(a) The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue admission cards to all persons whose applications have been
received. A candidate presenting himself for the examination must produce his admission card on which his signature has
been attested to the supervisor of the examination center. A candidate who fails to produce his admission card will not be
permitted to sit the examination.
(b) A candidate must sit the examination at the examination hall assigned to him. Every candidate must get his signature
attested in advance and hand over the admission card to the supervisor on the first day he presents himself for the
examination. A set of rules to be observed by all candidates is published at the begining of gazette. Candidates are
subjected to rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on conducting the examination
and they are liable to be subjected to a punishment imposed by him/her for breach of these rules.
Note.– The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite qualifications
to sit the examination.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2012
518
11. Identity of Candidates. – A candidate will be required to prove his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject he offers. For this purpose, any of the following documents will be accepted :-
(a) National Identity card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid passport.
12. Penalty for furnishing false information.– If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at
any stage prior to, during or after the examination. If it is found that a candidate has furnished information with knowledge t hat they are
false, or if he has willfully suppressed any material fact, he will be liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
13. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be dealt with as determined by the Secretary subject to the instructions
given by the Public Service Commission.
14. Scheme of Examination – Medium of Examination :
(a) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English. The language medium of examination indicated initially shall
not be allowed to change subsequently ;
(b) A candidate should sit the examination in the language in which he passed the qualifying degree examination or in an
offiicial language ;
(c) A candidate who has passed subjects at the qualifying degree examination in more than one language, should sit the
examination in the language in which he passed the majority of subjects at such examination or in an official language ;
(d) Candidate with a special degree who has passed the principal subject in one language and the subsidiary subject in
another language should sit the examination in the language in which he passed the principal subject or in an official
language.
Note :
(i) The term “qualifying degree” in (b) and (c) above refers to the degree qualifications referred to in Paragraph 7 (ii).
(ii) A candidate must sit all the papers of the examination in one and the same language.
(iii) A candidate will not be permitted to change the language medium of the examination, indicated in the application.
15. Method of Selection.– A written examination in the following subjects :
(i) General Intelligence - Duration : 1 hour - 100 marks
(ii) Essay and Pre´cis - Duration : 2 hours - 100 marks
(iii) General Knowledge - Duration : 2 hours - 100 marks
(iv) Aptitude for Management - Duration : 2 hours - 100 marks
Candidates should sit all the question papers.
Oral Test (25 marks).
Candidates who have sat all the question papers of the written exam and qualified themselves shall be called for the oral test.
Only the candidates who have scored 40% of marks or above for each of the papers and scored and aggregate of marks above the le vel
determined as sufficient by the Public Service Commission according to the number of vacancies existing, shall be called for the interview.
If there are a sufficient number of candidates who possess above qualifications, a number equivalent to twice the number of vacancies shall
be called for the oral test. (The scheme of allocating marks shall be approved by the Appointing Authority/Public Service Commission at
the early stage of recruitment).
16. The selection for appointment will be made in order of merit from among those who have sat the written examination,
presented themselves for the interview and scored the highest aggregate of marks. (Facing the interview should not necessarily mean that
he or she has fulfilled requisite qualifications to receive an appointment.)

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2012
519
17. Syllabus :
(i) General Intelligence (Duration 1 hour - 100 marks) :
To assess the candidate’s capacity for comprehension, qualification and perception of time space relations by measuring
the candidate’s inferences and responses to problems presented in verbal, numerical and spatial contexts. (The question
paper will consist of multiple choice questions and questions for short answers. All questions should be answered).
(ii) Essay and Pre´cis (Duration 2 hours - 100 marks) :
To test the candidate’s capacity for conceptualization, critical reasoning and his judgmental abilities in the development,
organization and presentation of ideas and information on a topic/theme chosen by the candidate from a given set of
topics/themes, and the ability to comprehend a fairly complex passage, a piece of writing or a memorandum and express
the salient ideas thereof concisely, clearly and accurately in the candidate’s own words. (All questions should be
answered.)
(iii) General Knowledge (Duration 2 hours - 100 marks) :
To test the candidate’s awareness and understanding of the social, cultural, educational, scientific, political, economic
and any other relevant factors operating at the National, Regional and Global environment or organizations, as well as
of our society. (The question paper will consist of multiple choice questions and questions for short answers. All
questions should be answered.)
(iv) Aptitude for Management (Duration 2 hours - 100 marks) :
This paper is designed to assess the candidate’s aptitude for sound management, as reflected in the candidate’s
responses to problems and situations requiring diagnosis and decision making, dealing with interpersonal relations,
communicating and developing policy and strategy and managing self. (The question paper will consist of multiple
choice questions and questions for short answers. All questions should be answered.)
On the order of Public Service Commission,
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
09th of March, 2012.
Specimen Form of Application
(For office use only)
OPEN COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT TO CLASS  III  OF
THE SRI  LANKA ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE – 2011(2012)
APPLICATION
1.0 Medium :
Language medium of examination
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.0 Personal Information :
2.1 Name with initials :––––––––––. Eg :– SILV A, A. B.
(In English Block Capitals)
2.2 Name in full :––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
2.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2012
520
2.4 Permanent Address (admission card will be posted to this address) :––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
2.5 Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.6 Sex :
(Male  -  0,  Female  - 1) (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.7 Civil Status :
(Unmarried  - 1,  Married  - 2) (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.8 Ethnic group :
(Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2,
Indian Tamil - 3, Muslim - 4, Other - 5) (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.9 National Identity Card No. :
2.10 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
2.11 Age as at the closing date of applications :
Y ears : Months : Days :
2.12 Telephone No. :
3.0 State the years in which you sat any previous examinations for recruitment to the Sri Lanka Administrative Service :
Indicate the years in which the candidate has sat the Indicate whether the candidate has/has not
examination after 01-01-2005 as per Sri Lanka sat the examination
Administrative Service minute published in the
Gazette Extra Ordinary No. 1,419/3 dated 14th 2007 open .........................................
November, 2005 (Which is effective at present). 2007 limited .........................................
2009 open .........................................
2009 limited .........................................
2010 open .........................................
4.0 (i) Effective date of the Degree :–––––––––.
(Please read Para 7(ii) of the notification carefully to see whether you are qualified in this respect)
(ii) University/Institute :–––––––––.
(iii) Registration Number :–––––––––.
(iv) Internal/External :–––––––––.
(v) Degree :–––––––––.
(vi) Subjects :–––––––––.
(vii) Class :–––––––––.
(viii) Upper/Lower :–––––––––.
(ix) Index Number :–––––––––.
(x) Language medium of Examination :–––––––––.
5.0 Paste the cash receipt properly here.
(Paste the receipt here securely)
(It would be advisable to keep a photocopy with the candidate)
6.0 Declaration of the candidate :
I declare that information given is this form is true to the best of my knowledge and belief and that I have affixed the receipt No. ..........
dated ................ being the payment of the examination fee. I also agree to be bound by the rules governing the examinatio n and any

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2012
521
decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior to, during or after the examination, if it is found that I am ineligible according
to the regulations of this examination. Further, I agree to be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by Commissioner-General of
Examinations as conducting of the exam.
––––––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––. Signature of Applicant.
7.0 Attestation of the applicant's signature : (Para 9(d) of the Gazette Notification) :
I hereby certify that ....................... (Full name) who submits this application is known to me personally, that he/she h as paid the
prescribed examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt herein. He/She placed his/her signature in my presence on ......... ...........
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer attesting the Signature.
Date :–––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer Attesting the Signature :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
(Official Stamp)
03-912
–––––––––––––––––––––
OPEN / LIMITED – COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION
FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS  III  OF  THE
SRI  LANKA  ACCOUNTANTS’  SERVICE  - 2012
IN this notice "Service" means the Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service
(S.L. Ac. S.)
1. Date of Examination.– Examination will be held in  July,  2012
in Colombo and in Jaffna by the Commissioner General of
Examinations. The Public Service Commission reserves the right to
postpone/cancel  the Examination.
2.  Number of  persons to be appointed and effective date of the
appointment.– To be determined by  the orders of the Public Service
Commission.
3.  Conditions of  Service.– A selected candidate will be appointed
to the Grade III of Sri Lanka   Accountants’ Service subject to
general conditions of governing appointment of the  Public Service,
conditions prescribed in the minute of the Sri Lanka Accountants
Service  published in the extraordinary Gazette  of Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  No. 1670/33 dated 10th of September
2010 and the amendments made thereto or  to be made hereafter.
4.  Structure and Monthly Salary Scales.– Monthly Salary Scale
as per Salary Code SL 1-2006 of the Public Administration Circular
No. 6/2006 dated 25.04.2006.
Monthly Salary Scale.– SL 1-2006-Rs; 22935 -10X645- 8X790
– 17X1050 – Rs. 53,555.
5.  Qualifications :–
5.1 Open Competitive Examination :
(a)  Educational Qualifications
(i) Should possess a Degree in Commerce, Management,
Accountancy or Economics from a University
recognized by the University Grants Commission ;
or
(ii) Should be a holder of a Higher Diploma in
Accountancy or Commerce from the Sri Lanka
Technical College or Sri Lanka Institute of Higher
Technical Education;
or
(iii) Should have passed the Intermediate or Licentiate or
Higher Examination of the  Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or an Institute of Chartered
Accountants in any other commonwealth country;
or
(iv) Should have passed the Parts I and II of costs and
management Examination or Higher Examination
conducted by the Chartered Institute of Management
Accountants of the United Kingdom or in any other
Commonwealth Country;
or
(v) Should have passed the First Professional Level or
Higher Level Examination of the Institute of Certified
Accountants of the United Kingdom or any other
Commonwealth Country;
or
(vi) Should have passed parts I and II Examination or
higher Level Examination of Association of Charted
Certified Accountants of United Kingdom or in any
other Commonwealth Country;
or
(vii) Final Examination of the Institute of Chartered
Secretaries and Managers of the United Kingdom.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2012
522
(b) Physical Fitness :–
 All candidates should be physical  fit in all aspects to
serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Should be of excellent  moral character ;
(iii) No candidate will be permitted to sit for the Open
Competitive Examination more than two occasions ;
(iv) A person holding priesthood in any of the religious
sects will be ineligible to sit this examination ;
(v) A person will be deemed as qualified to sit the
Competitive Examination for  appointment to the
service, if  the candidate has fulfilled necessary
qualification in para 5.1 (a) in all respect as at
23.03.2012 (on the date of publication of Gazette
notification) and  copies of certificates in support
of qualifications should be attached to the
application ;
(D) Age.– Candidate should not less 22 years and not
more than 28 years as at   23.03.2012 (on the date of
publication of the Gazette notification).
5.2 Limited Competitive Examination :–
 (a) Experience and qualifications :–
(i) Possession of any of the qualifications setout in
para 5.1 (a) above with not less than 5 years of
satisfactory, uninterrupted permanent service in
the public service or in the provincial public service
on  23.03.2012. (the date of publication of the
Gazette notification calling for applications) having
earned a minimum of 5 increments  on the due
date ;
                                              or
(ii) Possession of not less than 10 years satisfactory
period of service in the public service or in the
provincial public service in a permanent and
pensionable post which carries the salary scale of
MN 1- 2006 (A) or above having earned a minimum
of 10  increment on the due date :
(b) Physical Fitness.– All candidates must be physically
fit all aspects to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
                (c)  Other qualifications  :–
(i) Candidates must be of excellent moral character ;
(ii) Should have earned all the increments on due dates
during the immediately preceding five years of
the date of gaining eligibility ;
(iii) Possession of five years satisfactory service during
the immediately preceding five years on
23.03.2012 (on the date of publication of the
Gazette notification) ;
(iv) No person is entitled to sit the limited competitive
examination more than twice ;
(v) Any person holding priesthood in any of the
religious sects will be ineligible to sit this
examination  ;
(vi) A person will be deemed as qualified  to sit the
competitive examination for appointment to
service, if the candidate has fulfilled necessary
qualifications in para 5.2 (A) in all respects  as at
23.03.2012 (on the date of Publication of the
Gazette notification) and copies of certificates in
support of qualifications should be attached to
the application.
6. Examination Fee .–  The fee for the Open Competitive
Examination is Rs. 300. The Fee for the Limited Competitive
Examination is Rs. 300. If a candidate applies for both Examinations
the total fee  is Rs. 500. This fee should be paid before closing date
of applications at a Divisional Secretariat in order  to  credit to the
Revenue Head 2003-02-13. The  receipt issued from the Divisional
Secretariat should be pasted to the relevant cage in the application
form. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the
applicants. The fee is not refundable.
7. Method of Application :–
(a) The applications should be prepared strictly in
accordance with the specimen form annexed to this
notification, using both sides of a paper size A4 and
should be filled by the candidate himself ;
(b) Item No.  01 to 04 of the application should be on the
first page. The application should be in the Language in
which the candidate is eligible to sit the examination.
However, the Heading should be written in English
(Block Capitals) when preparing the application. (See
Para. 12) ;
(c) The applications for the Open Competitive
Examination must be sent by Registered Post to reach
the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla
on or before  23.04.2012. The envelope containing the
application should clearly written "Open Competitive
Examination/Accountants" on the top left hand corner.
No application received after that date will be accepted.
Note.–  Applicants who are already in Public Service/
Provincial Public Service/State Corporations should
forward their applications through their Head of
Departments/Institutions.
(d) The applications for the Limited Competitive
Examination must be forwarded through the Head of
Department to reach the Commissioner General of
Examinations, Department of Examinations, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla on or before  23.04.2012. The envelope
containing the application should be clearly written
"Limited Competitive Examinations/Accountants" on
the top left hand corner. No application received after
that date will be accepted. If a candidate is sitting for

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2012
523
both examinations the envelope should be written
"Open/Limited Competitive Examinations."
(e) An applications will not be acknowledged. A notice
will be published in the newspapers as soon as after
the Admission Cards are issued to the applicant. A
candidate who does not receive his/her Admission Card
at least seven days before the date of the examination
should immediately communicate with the
Commissioner-General of Examinations, Department
of Examinations Pelawatta, Battaramulla. (Telegraphic
Address "Exams" Pelawatta)  with following
particulars.
1.  Name of the Examination ;
2. Full Name of the candidate ;
3. Address ;
4. Posting date of the Application, Registered
Number and Post Office.
8.  Admission to the Examination :–
(a) The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue
Admission Cards to every person who has sent a perfected
application after paying the examination fees before the
due date. A candidate presenting himself for the
examination must produce his  Admission Card with
signature certified, to the Supervisor of the Examination
Centre. A candidate, who fails to produce his Admission
Card, will not be permitted to sit the Examination ;
(b) The candidate must sit the Examination at the Examination
Hall assigned to him. Every candidate should hand over
their  Admission Card of the  relevant examination  hall to
the Supervisor of the Examination Centre on the first day
presenting himself for the examination at the hall. A set of
rules to be observed by all candidates are published in the
Gazette ;
(c) The issue of an Admission Card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that he or she has the requisite
qualifications to sit the examination ;
(d) All candidates are bound to abide by the rules laid down
by the  Commissioner-General of Examinations.  A
candidate who violates any of those rules is liable to
punishment  at the discretion of the Commissioner-General
of Examinations.
09.  Identification of  a Candidate.– A Candidate will be required
to prove his identity   at the Examination Hall to the satisfaction of
the Supervisor of the Examination Centre for each subject he offers.
For this purpose one   of the following documents will be accepted.
(a) A National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons;
(b) A valid passport issued by the Department of Immigration
and Emigration. No office Identity Card will be accepted.
10.  Furnishing False Information.– If a candidate is found to be
ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior
to, during or after the examination. If any of the particulars furnished
by candidate is found incorrect and has been done so within the
knowledge of him or if he has willfully suppressed a material fact,
he will be liable to dismissal from the Public Service.
11.  Any matter not provided in these regulations will be dealt
with as determined by the Public Service Commission.
12.  Scheme of Examination :–
 (i) Language of Examination :–
(a) The Examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and
English ;
(b) A candidate can  sit for  the examination in any one
of the Languages of his  choice.
Note :– (i) A candidate must sit all the papers of
examination in one and the same language.
(ii) A candidate will not be permitted to
change the medium of the examination
given in his application.
13. Method of Testing :–
(a) An written examination consisting of  the following
subjects.– All the question papers consist compulsory
questions and the Candidates should answer all the
questions ;
(i)  Financial Accounting Paper I - 3 hours – 100 marks
(ii)  Financial Accounting Paper II - 3 hours – 100 marks
(iii) Cost and Management - 3 hours – 100 marks
Accounting
(iv) Public Financial - 3 hours – 100 marks
Management
(v) Auditing and Investigations - 3 hours – 100 marks
(vi) General Intelligence and - 3 hours – 100 marks
Comprehension
Syllabus is given in at the end of this notice.
(b) Interview.– Only candidates who secured a minimum of
40% marks in each subject at the written examination will
be  summoned for  the interview. The number of candidates
to be called for the interview will be determined by the
Public Service Commission  in order of merit of the marks
obtained by the candidates  at the written examination and
according to the number of existing  vacancies as the case
may be.
14.  In the event of any inconsistency between the notice
published in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, the notice
published in Sinhala medium shall prevail.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2012
524
15. Method of Selection for  Appointment. – The selection for
appointment will be on the results of the Open or Limited
Competitive Examination from those who have scored highest marks
in the written examination and duly filled the basic qualifications.
In the event of candidate having tied for a place, the selection for
such a place will be made by the Public Service Commission.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
P . A. A
BEYSEKERA,
Deputy Secretary to the Treasury.
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo 01,
On this 23rd day of  March, 2012.
Open/Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to
Grade III of the Sri Lanka Accountants' Service – 2012
Index No :
(for official use only)
Town in which the applicant sits Town No.
for the examination
Indicate the Town Number in which the applicant sit for the
examination and the number of the same.  (Colombo 1, Jaffna 2)
Medium of the Examination:
Sinhala 2, Tamil 3, English 4
(Please write relevant number in the cage)
Changing of given medium is not permitted
1.0 Name :
1.1. Last Name with Initials: Mr./Mrs./Miss. :––––––––––.
(In capital letters)
Eg :  Mr./Mrs./Miss
. SILVA, A.B.
1.2 Full Name :––––––––––.
(In capital letters)
1.3 Full Name :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :
2.0 Permanent address :––––––––––.
(In capital letters)
2.1 Permanent address :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.2 Official address :––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
2.3 Official address :––––––––––.
( In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.4 Address to which the Admission Card should be sent: (In
English Capital Letters) :––––––––––.
(Officer in Public Service/Provincial Public Service/
Corporations should mention his official address and any
subsequent change should be notified immediately.)
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1,     Male - 2
(Please write relevant number)
3.2 Marital Status :
Married - 1 Single - 2
(Please write relevant number)
3.3 Date of Birth :
Year :   Month :                Date :
3.4 Age as at 23.03.2012 :
Years :              Months :                   Days:
4.0 4.1 Please state whether you apply for Open Competitive
Examination/Limited Competitive Examination or Both:
Limited - 1,   Open - 2,   Both - 3
(Please write relevant number )
* Subsequent  change  for examination applied will not be
allowed
4.2 Examination fees paid : Rs. :––––––––––.
5.0 (To be filled by candidates for the Open Competitive
Examination) Please State.
5.1 The qualification obtained to be eligible to sit this
Examination under Para 5.1 :––––––––––.
5.2 The Institutions from which such qualification has been
obtained :––––––––––.
6.0 (To be filled by candidates for the Limited Competitive
Examination) Please State.
6.1 The qualification obtained to be eligible to sit this
Examination under Para 5.2 :––––––––––.
6.2 The Institutions from which such qualification has been
obtained
(a)
Department Post From           To Period
(b) (i) Service/Post :––––––––––.
(ii) Class : From                        to
(iii) Class : From                        to
(iv) Total Service period  the Government as at
23.03.2012. (On the date of publication of Gazette
Notification) :
Years :––––––––––.      Months :––––––––––.
(a) Service in  ii above  :
Years :––––––––––.  Months :––––––––––.
(b) Service in  iii above :
Years :––––––––––. Months :––––––––––.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2012
525
 (v) Annual Salary as at 23.03.2012 (on the date of
publication of Gazette Notification)
7.0 7.1     The  years in which your have sat the Limited Competitive
Examination for recruitment to the Sri Lanka Accountants’
Service.
Years:
1. ....................... 4. .........................
2. ....................... 5. .........................
3. ....................... 6. .........................
7.2 The  years in which you have sat the Open  Competitive
Examination for recruitment to the Sri Lanka Accountants’
Service.
Years:
1. .......................
2. .......................
3. .......................
8.0 The cash receipt should be pasted to the application firmly :
(To affix the receipt)
(i) Number :––––––––––.
(ii) Date :––––––––––.
(iii) Place of amount paid :––––––––––.
(iv) Amount paid  : Rs :––––––––––.
9.0 Certificate by Candidate :
9.1 I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the
information given in this form is true and that I have
affixed receipt No….. dated …………….. being payment
of the Examination Fee. I also agree to be bound by the
rules governing the  examination and any decision that
may be taken to cancel my candidature prior to during or
after the examination if it is found that I am ineligible
according to the regulations of the examination.
9.2 I declare that during the five years preceding  23.03.2012
(on the date of  publication of Gazette Notification) I
have earned all the increment (excluding those conditional
to passing service or departmental examination) and that
I have not been subject to any form of disciplinary
punishment (excluding warning) for any offence
committed during the immediate proceeding five  years.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
10. 10.1 Certificate of the Head of Department:  (To be filled by
candidates for the Open Competitive Examination only
where relevant and by all Candidates for the Limited
Competitive Examination) the Head of Institution in which
the applicant personal file  is been maintained, should
sign as the Head of the Institution.
I hereby certify that the candidate named … …………….
has been serving in this office since …….. and  his/her  work and
conduct has been satisfactory and I have checked all the particulars
maintained in Para 6 above with the records available in the office
and found that they are correct and that she/he has signed  in  my
presence on …………. 2012.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––.
Attester’s Full Name :––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––.
Address :  (Should be supported by a Rubber Stamp)
10.2 Attestation  (To be filled by candidates for the Open
Competitive Examination only where relevant.)
I do  hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ….. ……………
who forwards this application  is known to me personally
and placed his/her signature in  my  presence on this
…….. day of ……………2012.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester and Seal.
Attester’s Full Name :––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
Note :  Attester should be a Justice of the Peace, Commissioner
of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public or Government
Servant drawing an annual consolidated salary not less than
Rs. 230,700.
APPENDIX I
Particulars regarding Open/Limited Competitive Examinations
conducted for  appointment to the Sri Lanka Accountants Service.
The examination will consist of the following examination papers.
No. Subjects Maximum Pass Time
Marks Marks
1 Financial Accountancy -I 100 40 03 hours
2 Financial Accountancy -II 100 40 03 hours
3 Cost and Management 100 40 03 hours
Accountancy
4 Public Financial 100 40 03 hours
Management
5 Auditing and Investigation 100 40 03 hours
6 General Intelligence and 100 40 03 hours
Comprehension

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2012
526
Syllabus:
Subject No. 01 and 02  - Financial Accountancy I and II
Purpose of Financial Accountancy  and users of accounts and
information required by them.
Accounting Principles:
Accounting Equation, Double Entry Book keeping and
Accounting Systems, Prime Entry Books and Ledgers. Trial balance,
Accumulated pre-payments and Adjustments, Capital Expenditure
and income, Depreciations, Suspense Accounts, Correction of
Errors, Control Accounts, Reconciliation Statements, Incomplete
records.
Final Accounts :
Manufacturing Accounts, Trading Profit and Loss Accounts,
Balance Sheet, Fund Flow  Statement and Appropriation Account.
Accounting for Partnerships:
Partnership Agreements, Book keeping for partnerships, Fixed
Capital Accounts, Current Accounts, Accounting for debts, Drawing
Accounts, Preparation of Final Accounts for Partnerships, Changes
in the composition of a Partnership, Treatment of goodwill and
action on other assets and liabilities in admission of partners and
dissolution of partnerships, Joint ventures.
Accounting for Limited liability Companies:
Nature of Limited liability Companies, Public listed Companies
and Share market/share and loan capital, Distributable profits, Final
Accounts for internal and external use, Defining Statements of
Accounts, Interpretation of financial statements, Accounting ratios.
Accounting for Specialized Transactions:
Societies and associations, consignments, Branches, hire
purchase and credit sale, Leasing, investments, bill  of exchange,
long-term contracts, royalties, container accounts, foreign currency
transactions.
Application of Computers for accounting:
Types of Computer/Hardware and software, Computer
Operating  Software, Electronic Spreadsheets, Computer based
Accounting.
Subject No. 03 – Cost and Management Accounting
Cost Accounting, Financial Accounting and Management
Accounting, Purpose of Cost accounting. Accounting as a
management aid.
Material Cost:
Purchasing procedures, Store Routines, Methods of valuing
material issues, Incentive allowances, and  bonuses.
Labour Cost:
Time keeping, time allocations, methods of remuneration,
payment of incentive allowances and bonuses, Accounting for salaries
and wages.
Overhead Costs:
Allocation and apportionment of costs, Absorption methods,
Overhead administration & distribution, Selling  and  Distributions.
Integrated and non-integrated Accounts.
Cost control account, reconciliation of costs and financial
accounts, integral accounts.
Methods of Costing:
Contract Costing, Job Costing, Departmental Costing, Batch
Costing, Process Costing, Unit Costing, Services Costing, unrealized
profits under different methods of costing.
Marginal Costing:
Contributions/Sales, break-even charts, application of marginal
costing, accounting entries in marginal costing.
Standard Costing:
Standard Costs, actual Costs, basic variances, accounting
procedures.
Budgetary Control:
Functional budgets, master budgets, flexible budgetary control,
continuous budgeting, Operation of budgetary control.
Subject No. 4 - Public Financial Management
Legal framework of Public Finance
The Consolidated Fund, Special Law Expenditure, Contingencies
Fund, Public Debt. Foreign  aid, Fiscal Measures.
The Role of the Parliament, The Minister of Finance, The
Treasury, The Auditor General, Public Accounts Committee,
Committee on Public Enterprises, The Chief Accounting Officer,
Department of national Planning Monetary Board.
The Annual Appropriation Bill.
Budgetary System and Procedures, Annual estimates of Revenue
and Expenditure.
Budget Implementation
Organizational Structure for the implementation of the budget,
Revenue collection procedures, Imprest for making payments,
Supervision of financial operations, Delegation of functions,

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2012
527
Virement procedure, supplementary estimates, Budgetary control,
Procurement Procedure.
Government Accounting Systems and Procedures
Custody, security and control of Government properties,
Accounting for revenue and other receipts, Accounting for foreign
aid, Accounting for losses, waivers and write-offs.
Review :
Flash reports summary of monthly accounts, Review of financial
and physical performance, the annual appropriation account, The
Auditor General’s  report on the island’s accounts, the report of the
Public Accounts Committee, The report of the Committee on Public
Enterprises.
Note:-
(i) Term a qualifying examination in (b) and (c) above refers
to any of the examination referred to in para. 5.
(ii) A candidate must sit all the papers of examination on
one and the same language.
(iii) A candidate will not be permitted to change the medium
of the examination given in his application :
(a) A candidate should sit the examination in the
language in which he passed the qualifying
examination or in the official language ;
(b) A candidate who has passed subjects at the
qualifying examination on more than on language
should sit the examination in the language on which
he passed the majority of subjects at such
examination or in the official language ;
(c) A candidate with a special degree who has passed
the principal subject in one language and the
subsidiary subject in another language should sit
the examination in which he passed the principal
subject or in the official language.
Subject No. 5 - Auditing and Investigation :
The nature and objectives of auditing  -  The role of the Auditor :
Internal audit, external audit, statutory – in relation to the
Government Departments, Ministries and Corporations under the
Constitution of Sri Lanka and Finance Act, No. 38 of 1971 relating
to Non-statutory-under companies Act, No. 17 of 1982 – Auditing
Standards, Auditing Opinions, Auditing concepts, Independence
and other  personal qualities of Auditor, Evidence, Truthfulness
and Fairness, Materialism, Audit Risk, Auditors Responsibilities,
Responsibilities of person subjected to Auditing.
Scope and Limitations :
Determining  the Scope, Assumptions and limitations, Role of
Auditing standards and Guidelines.
The role of engagement letters, Management letters and
representation   letters, Basic auditing  methods and Evaluation of
internal control procedures.
Quantity Charts, Questionnaires.
Audit Planning and Control.
Audit Planning, timing, interim and final audits, assignment of
responsibilities for functions, Audit Control, Recording the work
done including the use of internal control, prepared questionnaires
and forms for evaluation of internal control.
Values, Concepts and Characteristics for financial auditing.
Its relevance to the Public Sector, Analytical auditing.
Auditing of Computerized Accounting Systems – Auditing
Limited Companies.
Statutory books, powers and duties of Directors, Divisional
profits, Appointment of auditors, wages and removals. Action to
be taken before accepting new Auditors,  Powers  and duties of
Auditors.
Nature  and  extent of inspections.
Compliance  inspections, independent inspections, Sample
techniques, Balance Sheet verifications, Verification of income and
expenditure accounts.
Professional responsibilities of Auditors and Accountants
Professional conduct and ethics legal  rights  and responsibilities,
Legal responsibility of Accountant and Auditor and Law relating to
the subject of knowledge on incidents.
Investigations:
Planning the scope of investigations, Techniques and procedures
to be used, Examples of intention for conducting investigations,
Feasibility studies Evaluation of business institutions for the
purchase, Sale, Credit rating etc., Accountant’s and Auditor’s reports
for prospectus, Reporting activities, fraud investigations, Project
evaluations.
Reporting Functions
Reporting to the management about the weaknesses in the
internal control systems, special reporting functions relating to
Government and corporation audits, Reports for the prospectus,
Reports on investigations.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2012
528
Subject No. 6 – General Intelligence and Comprehension
PART  ‘A ’
Questions will be asked from candidates based on a passage
given  in the comprehension question paper. Another passage is
given and the candidates have to summarize it to one third of  the
original number of words giving its prime meaning.
P
ART ‘B’
Intelligence
Note:-
(i) Term a qualifying examination in (b) and (c) above
refers to any of the examination referred to in para. 5.
(ii) A candidate must sit all the papers of examination on
one and the same language.
(iii) A candidate will not be permitted to change the
medium of the examination given in his application.
(a) A candidate should sit the examination in the
language in which he passed the qualifying
examination or in the official language.
(b) A candidate who has passed subjects at the
qualifying examination on more than on language
should sit the examination in the language on which
he passed the majority of subjects at such
examination or in the official language.
(c) A candidate with a special degree who has passed
the principal subject in one language and the
subsidiary subject in another language should sit
the examination in which he passed the principal
subject or in the official language.
03–1028
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.