

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
ANURADHAPURA JAYA SRI MAHA BODHI
DEVELOPMENT FUND (INCORPORATION)
ACT, No. 41 OF 2006
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 06th November, 2006]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs. 21.50 Postage : Rs. 7.50
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 10, 2006

<!-- page 2 -->

1Anuradhapura Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi
Development Fund  (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2006
[Certified on 06th November 2006]
L. D. —O. 20/2004.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  ANURADHAPURA  JAYA  SRI MAHA
BODHI  DEVELOPMENT  FUND
WHEREAS a Fund called and known as the “Anuradhapura
Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi Development Fund” has heretofore been
established for the purpose of effectively carrying out its
objects and transacting all matters connected with the
said Fund, in accordance with the rules agreed to by its
members :
AND WHEREAS the said Fund has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was established and has applied to be incorporated
and it will be for the public advantage to grant such
application :
BE it therefor enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Anuradhapura Jaya
Sri Maha Bodhi Development Fund (Incorporation) Act,
No. 41 of 2006.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Anuradhapura Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi Development Fund”
(hereinafter referred to as “the Fund”) or shall herafter be
admitted as members of the Corporation hereby constituted
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) shall be a body
corporate with perpetual succession, under the name and style
of “Anuradhapura Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi Development Fund”
and by that name may sue or be sued in all courts, with full
power  and authority to have and use a common seal and alter
the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
Preamble.
Incorporation of
the
Anuradhapura
Jaya Sri Maha
Bodhi
Development
Fund.
Short title.
General objects
of the Fund.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Anuradhapura Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi
Development Fund  (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2006
(a) to construct a ranveta (golden fence) around the
sacred Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi and to manintain and
effect repairs to it when necessary ;
(b) to ensure and facilitate performance of traditional
Buddhist and cultural rites within the environment
of the Maluwa (Terrace) of the Jaya Sri Maha  Bodhi;
(c) to conserve the area outside of the Maluwa of the
sacred Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi, to ensure the protection
of Buddhist archaelogical and historical objects and
landscaping and to carry out other conservation and
development work with the approval and the
supervision of the Archaeological Department ;
(d) to formulate a scheme to construct buildings
connected with the Maluwa of the sacred Jaya Sri
Maha Bodhi and to plan out a new environment in
consultation with the relevent authorities ;
(e) to hold exhibitions, lectures, seminars, to bring out
publications, and to carry out activities in order to
realise the objects of the Corporation ;
(f) to assist in the well being of the Anuradhapura
Atamasthana with the sacred Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi
at the apex and the other places of worship affiliated
to the Atamasthana in the Anuradhapura District and
to do all activities to perpetuate the existence of the
Buddha Sasana ;
(g) to help in any activity connected with the
construction of the Ranveta around the sacred Jaya
Sri Maha Bodhi with the approval and supervision
of the Department of Archaeology ;
(h) to protect the Buddhist Dhamma and the way of
virtuous living preached by it and to disseminate
the same ; and

<!-- page 4 -->

3Anuradhapura Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi
Development Fund  (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2006
(i) to maintain and encourage friendly relations with
Buddhist Organizations in Sri Lanka and abroad.
4. (1) The members of the Corporation shall be appointed
by the Honourable Prime Minister on the advice and
recommendation of the Ven. Atamasthanadhipathi Thera, who
shall be the Chief Patron of the Corporation.
(2) The number of members of the Corporation shall be
not less than ten members and not more than twenty members
inclusive of the following ex-officio members :-
(i) the Director-General of Archaeology ;
(ii) the Director-General of Central Cultural Fund ;
(iii) the Commissioner General of Buddhist Affairs ; and
(iv) the District Secretary of Anuradhapura.
(v) the Director-General of the National Physical
Planning Department.
(3) Every member of the Corporation unless he vacates
office earlier by death, resignation or removel, hold office for
a period of five years from the date of his appointment.
(4) Every member of the Corporation may resign his office
by a letter addressed in that behalf to the Prime Minister and
such resignation shall take effect upon it being accepted by
the Prime Minister.
(5) Any member of the Corporation may be removed from
membership after consulting Ven. Atamasthanadhipathi
Thera.
(6) Where any member of the Corporation dies, resigns
or is removed from office, the Prime Minister shall
appoint another person on the recommendation of the Ven.
Atamasthanadhipathi Thera, and the person so appointed
shall hold office for the unexpired period of the term of office
of the member whom he succeeds.
(7)  Any member of the Corporation who vacates office,
by affluxion of time shall be eligible for reappointment”.
Membership.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Anuradhapura Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi
Development Fund  (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2006
5. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any General Meeting of the members and by the
votes of not less than two thirds of the members present and
voting at such meeting to make rules, not inconsistent with
the management of the affairs of the Corporation and the
accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made may, at
a like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added to,
amended or rescinded.
(2)  The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
6. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gifts
bequests, donations, subscriptions, contributions fees or
grants for and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited
to the credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as the
Committee of Management shall determine.
(2)  The Corporation may create any depreciation fund,
reserve or sinking fund for the rehabilitation, improvement
and development of the property of the Corporation.
(3)  There shall be paid out of the fund all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act.
(4) The moneys and property of the Corporation however
derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of its
objects and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferred
directy or indirectly, by way of dividends, bonus or otherwise
by  way of profit to any member of the Corporation.
7.   (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rules of the Corporation be administrated by a Committee of
Management comprising of not less than six members
consisting of the President, Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer,
Assistant Secretaries and two other members to be elected in
accordance with the rules of the Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Anuradhapura Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi
Development Fund  (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2006
(2)   The first Committee of Management of the
Corporation will be the Committee of Management of the
Fund holding office on the day preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
8. The Committee of Management shall cause to be  kept
a register of members in which every person who on the day
preceeding the date of commencement of this Act is a
member of the Fund and every person thereafter duly admitted
as  a  member  of   the   Corporation   shall   have   his   name
inscribed.
9. All debts and liabilities of the Fund existing on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall be
paid and discharged by the Corporation, and all debts due to
and subscriptions and contributions payable to, the Fund on
that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act.
10. The Corporation shall be capable in Law to take and
hold any property movable or immovable which may become
vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise and all such property shall be held
by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act, and subject
to the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation,
with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise
dispose of the same.
11. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power—
(a) to take and hold land or buildings by purchase,
acquisition, rent, building or other wise, for the
purposes of the Corporation ;
(b) to recover and take subscriptions, donations, grants
and all kinds of gifts, concessions for the purposes
of the Corporation ;
(c) to enter into agreements or contracts with any person,
company or body of persons ;
Debts due by
and payable to
the Fund.
Register of
members.
General powers
of the
Corporation, to
acquire
property, invest
Funds &etc.
Corporation may
hold and dispose
of property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Anuradhapura Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi
Development Fund  (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2006
(d) to receive, accept, implement, perform, and
administer the conditions effective to any real or
private property which is held as belonging to or as
any lawful trust with any Corporation, charitable
society, board or any other trust ;
(e) to appoint, dismiss or terminate the services of the
officers and employees of the Corporation, and to
pay their salaries allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the Corporation ; and
(f) to train employees for the benefit of the Corporation.
12.  (a) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(b) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of its income and expenditure, assets and
liabilities and all other transactions of the
Corporation.
(c) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
by a qualified auditor.
In this section, “qualified auditor” means—
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute ; or
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as an Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute.
Audit and
accounts.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Anuradhapura Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi
Development Fund  (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2006
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of a member
of the Corporation and the Secretary or any other person
duly authorized by the committee of Management, who shall
sign their names to the instrument in token of their presence,
and such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
such person as a witness.
14. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of such membership fees as may be
due from such member to the Corporation.
15.  If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains, after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to any other institution or institutions
having objects similar to those of the Corporation and which
is or are by their rules prohibited from distributing any income
or property among its or their members. Such institution or
institutions shall be determined by the members of the
Corporation at or immediately before the time of dissolution
of the Corporation.
16.   Nothing in this act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic, or any body politic or corporate,
or of any other persons.
17. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and  Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Limitations of
liabilities of
members.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.

<!-- page 9 -->

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT   PUBLICA TIONS  B UREAU , NO . 32,
TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,  LOTUS   ROAD ,  COLOMBO  01  before  15th  December  each  year  in  respect
of the year following.