

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'01'20
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2017
11
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
PAGE 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
  
PAGE 
Land Sales by the Settlement Ofﬁ cers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 12
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
wxl 2003- 2017 ckjdß ui 20 jeks isl=rdod - 2017'01'20                                                                                                                   
No. 2,003 - FRIDAY , JANUARY 20,  2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
11
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notiﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertain ing to notiﬁ cation 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  09th February  2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on  27th January, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satis ﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 GANGANI LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2017
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note .- (i) Institute of Chartered Corporate Secretaries of  Sri Lanka  (Incorporation)   Bill was published as a supplement to the  Part II 
of the  Gazette of the Democratic  Socialist   Republic of Sri Lanka of January, 06, 2017. 
  (ii)  International Women's  and Children's Rights Council (IWCRC)   (Incorporation) Bill was  published as a supplement to t he  
Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic Socialist   Republic of Sri Lanka of January 06, 2017.
  
N. B.-  Part IV (A) of the  Gazette No. 2002 of 13.01.2017 was not  Published. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'01'20
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2017
12
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
 (b)    The lessee must within one year of the  commencement 
of the lease, develop  the  said  land  in such  a manner 
as to captivate the  mind  of the  Divisional Secretary;
 (c)   The lessee must not use this  land  for any purposes 
other  than  for the  purpose  of Manufacture Detergent 
Powder;  
 (d)  This  lease must  also  be subject to the  other  special 
conditions stipulated and  imposed by the Divisional 
Secretay/Scoping  committee/ Board  of Investment 
of Sri Lanka  and by other  institutions;
 (e)   The buildings constructed must  be maintained in a  
proper state of repair; 
 (f)  Once the land  is given on lease and in  the event of 
failure on the part  of the  lessees  to substantiate within  
the speciﬁ ed time  frame the  purpose for  which  the  
land was obtained action will be taken to  terminate 
the  lease; 
 (g)  No - sub leasing can be done  until the  expiry of a  
minimum period of 05 years from 03.11.2016 ; 
 (h)   Payment  of the  lease must  be regularly made and 
if  defaulted in payment, he agreement will ipso facto 
lapse. 
If  acceptable reasons are not  submitted  to me  in writing  
within six  weeks  of the  date  which  this  notice is published 
in the 
Gazette  to the  effect that this  land must not be given 
on lease the land  will be leased out   as requested. 
 P UBUDI PREMADASA, 
 Assistant  Land  Commissioner, 
 For land  Commissioner  General. 
Land  Commissioner General's  Department, 
"Mihikatha Medura" Land  Secretariat 1200/6, 
Rajamalwatta Road. Battaramulla.
20th January, 2017. 
01-565  
Land Commissioner General's No: 4/10/49363. 
Provincial Land  Commissioner's No:  
m<d;a$bfld$b9$fjka$§'n'$01.  
NOTIFICATION MADE UNDER STATE LAND  
REGUALTION No. 21 (2) 
IT is hereby noti ﬁ ed that for the purpose of Manufacture 
Detergent Powder Huper  & Co (PVT)  LTD has  requested 
on lease a state land  containing in  extent  about                                 
Hectare 0.4048 and 0.0023 Hectare out of  extent marked 
lot No. 01  as depicted in the  Tracing No. P. P. P. 4668 
and    situated in the village of  Waikkala  with  belongs to 
the  Grama Niladhari  Division No.  480 A, Bolana  coming  
within  the area of  authority  of Wennappuwa  Divisional 
Secretariat in the   District  of Puttalam.
02. Given below  are  the boundaries of the land  requested. 
On the North by  :   Owitiyawa owned by W. Michel  
  Fernando and others and   
  Bogahaowita owned by State  ; 
On the  East by  :  Lot No. 1 in  P. P. P.  4034;  
On the South by  :  Lot  No.2 in P. P.P. 3812 and Road  
  (Pradheshiya Sabha) ; 
On the West by  :  Lot No. 1 in P. P. P. 4034 .
 
The land requested can  be given  on lease for the  
necessary purpose. Therefore  the  Government  has intended 
to  lease out the  land  subject to other  government approved 
conditions.
 (a)  
Terms of the  lease  .- Thirty  Years  (30) (30.11.2016 
onwards);
  The  annual rent of the lease .-  4% of  the commercial 
value of the  land as per  valuation of the  chief  valuer 
for the  year 2016. This  amount of the  lease must  
be quinquennially revised in such  a manner  that  
the amount as a  result of the revision will be  not  
morethan  50% of the  amount that  just  preceded.  
  Premium .-  Three times  of the  annual rent  of the  
lease;
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.