

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2457
2457
wxl 1"843 - 2013 foieïn¾ 27 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'12'27
No. 1,843 – FRIDAY , DECEMBER 27, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2460
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2468
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 17th January, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 03rd
January, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,842 of 20.12.2013 was not published.
N.B.–  Daya Sarana Development  Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a aupplement  to the  part II of the
Gazette of the  Democratic Socialist  Republic of Sri Lanka  of December  06, 2013.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2458
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2459
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2460
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
ANURADHAPURA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 27th  January, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
09th December, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Anuradhapura Nuwaragampalatha Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  Central Kandyan) of Nuwaragampalatha General, District Secretariat,
Division and Births and Deaths of Anuradhapura.
Gambirigaswewa Division
12–1078
–––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KALUTARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2461
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 27th  January, 2014.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
07th December, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Kalutara Beruwala Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Maradana Area in Kalutara and General, District Secretariat,
Panadura Totamuna Division Kalutara.
12–985
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
PUTTALAM   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 27th  January, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
05th December, 2013.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2462
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Puttalam K alpitiya Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Norochchole Division General, District Secretariat, Puttalam.
12–986
–––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
BADULLA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 27th  January, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
11th December, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Badulla Uva Paranagama Post of Additional Marriage Registrar District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Udukinda (Uduhawara and General, District Secretariat,
Paranagama) Division (Kandyna/ Badulla.
General)
12–1233

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2463
AGRARIAN TRIBUNAL - 2014/2017
Ministry of Economic and Development
DEPARTMENT OF AGRARIAN DEVELOPMENT
BEING the Commissioner General of Agrarian Development
applications are invited by me to appointing 25 numbers of Agrarian
Tribunals for the three years under the Act of Agrarian Development
Act, No. 46 of 2000 as amended by Act, No. 46 of 2011 applications
should be prepared in accordance with the specimen application
shown below. The words "Agrarian Tribunal" should be written on
the top left hand corner of the envelope in which the application is
enclosed and be sent in registered post to reach the Department of
Agrarian Development on or before 27th of January 2014.
Photocopies of the certificates should also be attached with the
application. The applications which are not in conformity with the
specimen given and the delayed applications will be rejected.
02. Method of Recruitment .– Among applicants who have the
stipulated qulaifications in the notice and who obtains the highest
marks shall be selected for the vacancies after an interview held by an
interview board appointed by the Secretary of the Ministry of
Economic Development.
03. Age limit.– Below 70 years.
04. Eligibility :
1. More than 7 years experience as retired judge.
2. Retired government officer with 7 years service of
executive level (Special attention is given for the experience
in the sector).
05. Number of vacancies.– 25.
06. Duration.– For three years.
07. ( a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) Should possess a good character.
08. Applicants    should be able to submit the following documents
as and when required.
(a) Birth certificate,
(b) Service certificates,
(c) Professional certificate,
(d) Certificates of highest examinations passed in Sinhala/
Tamil/English.
09. All  candidates should possess and adequate physical and
mental fitness to fulfill the duties in the post and to serve in any part
of Sri Lanka.
10. This post is entitled to the monthly allowance Rs. 28,740 and
additional allowance Rs. 5,000 per month for transport.
M. A. S. W
EERASINGHE,
Commissioner of the Agrarian Development,
Department of Agrarian Development.
No. 42, Sir Marcus Fernando Mawatha,
Colombo 07,
11th of December 2013.
S
PECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
FOR THE POST OF AGRARIAN TRIBUNAL - DEPARTMENT OF AGRARIAN DEVELOPMENT
1. Name in full :––––––––––––.
2. Name with initials :––––––––––––.
3. Permanent address :––––––––––––.
4. Address :––––––––––––.
5. Date of birth :
Year :––––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––––, Date :––––––––––––.
6. Age :
Years :––––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––––,  Days :––––––––––––.
7. Nationality :––––––––––––.
8. Religion :––––––––––––.
9. Married/unmarried :––––––––––––.
10. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
11. Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
12. Educational Qualification :––––––––––––.
13. Service experience :––––––––––––.
14. Professional qualifications :––––––––––––.
15. Applicant ability to read write and speak of Languages :
(Please make (3) relevant cage)
Reading Writing Speaking
Excellent Good Weak Excellent Good Weak Excellent Good Weak
Sinhala
Tamil
English

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2464
16. Does the applicant have knowledge about the Agrarian
Development Act ? Yes/No If yes, how did you get the
knowledge ? :––––––––––––.
17. Are you a retired judge or retired government officer ?
(Please make (3) relevant cage)
01 Are you a retired judge
02 Are you retired government officer
18. Your service information :
Service Working period Designation W orking place
From           To
19. Value of property possess by the applicant Rs. :–––––––––––.
20. Your monthly income :––––––––––––.
21. Have you been involved in active politics in past 10 years ? :
––––––––––––.
22. Are you a tax payer ? :––––––––––––.
23. Are there any criminal cases against you in any Court ? :––––.
Have you ever been convicted in any crime in the Court ? :––.
24. Give details about the charges of if made by any court :–––––.
25. Whom can be contacted to find personal information regarding
yourself (who know you well and should respond responsibly
should not be a family member) :
(1) (2)
Name :––––––––. Name :––––––––.
Address :––––––––. Address :––––––––.
Designation :––––––––. Designation :––––––––.
Telephone Number :––––––––. Telephone Number :––––––.
Period known :––––––––. Period known :––––––––.
I declare that the information given herein are true and correct to
the best of my knowledge.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––.
(Please attach the photocopies of all certificates)
12–1163
–––––––––––––
CANCELLATION  OF  GAZETTE   NOTIFICATION  OF  APPLICATION  RECRUITMENT  FOR  THE  POST  OF
MARRIAGE REGISTRAR,  (GENERAL/KANDYAN)  OF  DAMBADENI  HATHPATTUWA  DIVISION  AND  BIRTHS
AND  DEATS  OF DAMBADENI  UDUKAHA  SOUTH  DIVISION  PUBLISHED  ON  13.12.2013
IT is kindly notified that the post of above mentioned has been cancelled because it was published by me in the Gazette No. 1817 and date
28.06.2013.
E. M. GUNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
10th December, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Kurunegala Alawwa Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Dambadeni Hathpattuwa General, District Secretariat,
Division and Births and Deaths of Kurunegala.
Dambadeni Udukaha South Division
12–1234

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2465
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry  of  Livestock  and Rural Community
Development
CALLING APPLICATIONS TO FILL THE VACANCIES IN
THE POSTS OF VETERINARY SURGEON IN CLASS II
GRADE II OF THE SRI LANKA ANIMAL PRODUCTION
AND HEALTH SERVICE - 2013
APPLICATIONS are being called, under the order of Public Service
Commission, from the Veterinary Science Degree Holders with
relevant qualifications to be selected for the posts of Veterinary
Surgeon in Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Animal Production and
Health Service in which 40 (Forty) vacancies are available as at
30.09.2013. Applications should be prepared according to the
specimen application attached herewith and forward the same on
or before the date mentioned below to reach the, Director General,
Department of Animal Production and Health, P . O. Box 13,
Getambe, Peradeniya under registered cover. The words
"Application for the post of Veterinary Surgeon in Class II Grade II
of the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service" should be
marked on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the
application.
(a) Closing date of the application is 17.01.2014.
Note :–
* The complaints with regard to a loss of an application or
delayed in the post will not be considered and the
candidates should undertake the risk of delaying the
application until the last date. The applications of the
applicants who have not fulfilled the basic qualifications
will be rejected.
* The applicants recruited for the Veterinary Surgeon post
are bound to work in the North and Eastern Provinces for
3 years with effect from the appointment date.
01. Method of Recruitment :
(i) The recruitment for the vacancies available in the Posts
of Veterinary Surgeon will be made on the merit list issued
by the Faculty of Veterinary Science of the University of
Peradeniya. The applicants who have obtained the
V eterinary Science Degree from a recognized foreign
University should be registered in the Sri Lanka Veterinary
Council in the relevant year in which they have fulfilled
the qualifications and will be placed accordign to the order
at the end of the merit list.
(ii) Applicants will be called for the interview based on the
No. of vacancies allocated according to the order of the
merit list and recruitment will be made accordingly. No
marks will be given at the interview.
(iii) Number of appointments and the effective date of the
appointment will be decided as per the order of Public
Service Commission.
02. Terms and conditions of Service :
(i). This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected
applicant should contribute for the widows/widowers
and orphan's pensions fund.
(ii) The selected candidate will be appointed to the scheduled
post in the Sri Lanka Animal Products and Health Service
as applied by them.
(iii) The proficiency in other language should be acquired
within 05 years of the appointment as per the Public
Administration Circular 7/2007(II). When the entrance
language to the Government service is other than the
official language, such officers should acquire the
proficiency in one official language within 03 years
whereas the proficiency in other official language should
be achieved within six (06) years of the appointment.
The proficiency in second language indicated in the
category I should be acquired.
(iv) The other terms and conditions of the service will be
applied as per the Service Minute of Animal Production
and Health Service published in the Gazette dated
31.10.1980 and the amendments for it, issued from time
to time and provisions in the Establishment Code and the
rules of the Public Service Commission, the terms of the
Public administrations Circulars issued time to time,
Government Financial Regulations and other departmental
orders.
03. Salary scale.– This post is entitled to SL-1-2006 Rs. 22,935
-10x645 -8x790 -17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555. (The salary step No. SL-1-
2006 of Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006 dated
25.04.2006).
04. Educational Qualifications.– A four year degree in Veterinary
Science obtained from a recognized University.
05. Age limit.– Should be not less than 21 years and not more
than 35 years of age at the closing date of the applications.
06. Physical fitness. – The applicant should be physically and
psychologically fit to :
(i) Work in any part of the island ; and
(ii) To execute the duties prescribed in the post.
The physical fitness should be proved by medical
certificates.
07. General qualifications :
(i) Applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka,
(ii) Should bear an excellent moral character,
(iii) The graduates in Veterinary Science shoudl be registered
in the Sri Lanka Veterinary Council and the valid date of
the degree should be on or before 31.12.2010.
(iv) Should have completed every and each qualification at
the closing date of the applications which has been
indicated as the date to complete all required
qualifications with relevance to the post in the notice/
Gazette for calling application.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2466
08. Interview :
8.1 General interview : (Marks will not be given) :
Objects to be achieved. – To examine whether the
qualifications are fulfilled which have been indicated in
the recruitment procedure and notification published as
per the service procedure and to examine physical fitness.
09. Mode of application :
(i) Applications should be prepared in A4 paper using both
sides (22.29cm) according to the specimen application
attached herewith.
(ii) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the
following documents at the interview when informed :
(a) Certificate of birth,
(b) Degree and relevant educational certificates,
(c) Two certificates of character obtained recently, one
should be from Grama Niladari of the residential area
and certified by the Divisional Secretary,
(d) Certificates of the highest examinations passed in
Sinhala, Tamil or English,
(e) Certificates of registration as a V eterinary Surgeon in
the Sri Lanka Veterinary Council.
10. Other Conditions :
(i) The Public Service Commission reserves the right of taking
decisions pertaining to the matters to which the
regulations have not been given in these gazette
notifications.
(ii) The Public Service Commission reserves the decision of
filling or not filling or filling several posts only.
(iii) If the Sinhala/Tamil and English versions of the gazette
notifications are non-consistence then the Sinhala versions
will be accepted.
(iv) If it reveals that a candidate has not fulfilled the required
qualifications his candidature will be cancelled.
(v) If it reveals that a candidate has submitted false information
knowingly or concealed an important reasons he/she will
be dismissed from service.
Under the order of Public Service Commission,
K. M. T. K
ENDARAGAMA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock and Rural
Community Development.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF  VETERINARY SURGEON IN CLASS II GRADE II OF THE SRI LANKA ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH SERVICE
(For Office use)
01. (i) Name with initials :
In Sinhala :–––––––––––.
In English (In English block capitals) :
(ii) Names denoted by initials (in English block capitals) :
02. N. I. C. No. :
03. Postal address :–––––––––––.
(Change of the address should be informed immediately)
04. The permanent address is belonged :
(i) Provincial Council
(ii) District
05. Date of birth :  Year :–––––––––––, Month :–––––––––––, Date :–––––––––––.
Age as at the closing date of the application :  Years :–––––––––––, Months :–––––––––––, Days :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2467
06. ( a) Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka :–––––––––––.
(b) Nationality (Sinhala/Sri Lanka Tamil/Indian Tamil/Muslim/Other)
07. ( a) Sex (Male/Female) :–––––––––––.
(b) Civil Status(Unmarried/married/widow) :–––––––––––.
08. Educational qualifications :
Degree/Post Graduate Qualifications Class University Y ear
1.
2.
3.
09. Registration No. of the Sri Lanka Veterinary Council and the date :–––––––––––.
10. Service particulars (If you hold a Permanent Post at present) :
The Post held Period of service Place of work Department/
From                   To Provincial Council
11. I hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. I am also aware that if any  particulars
are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified before selection and to dismissals without compensation if d etected
after appointment. I also certify that I have not being convicted for any criminal offence by any Court of Law.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
(Only for the applicants in the permanent and pensionable post at present)
Recommendation of the Head of the Department :
I declare that the above applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ............... is holding the post of .......................... in this Depa rtment/
Provincial Council and the particulars stated in the application are accurate when checked with his/her personal file. He/She c an be
released/cannot be released from Department/Provincial/Public Service if selected for this post. (Delete the words not relevant ).
––––––––––––––,
Head of the Department.
(Official Stamp).
Date :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
12–1221

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2468
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  ECONOMIC  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Agrarian Development
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR
RECRUITMENT OF AGRARIAN DEVELOPMENT
OFFICER GRADE II IN THE DEPARTMENT OF
AGRARIAN DEVELOPMENT - 2013 (2014)
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka who
possess the following qualifications for the Open Competitive
Examination for Recruitment of Agrarian Development Officer Grade
II in the Department of Agrarian Development.
1.1 Application should be prepared on an A4 size sheet and
the cages 01 to 07 on the first page and the cages 08 to 12
should be on the other pages.
1.2 The relevant information should be filled in his/her own
handwriting. The language medium should be indicated
correctly in the relevant cage.
An applicant will not be permitted to change late the
language of the examination.
1.3 It is essential to indicate the title of the examination in
English in the application forms of in addition to Sinhala/
Tamil language.
1.4 Examination will be held on March 2014 in the towns
through out the Island mentioned in schedule I hereto.
Changes will not be allowed later with regard to the
requested town. In the event of a certain examination centre
is not established in a certain district due to insufficient
candidates, they are referred to a centre as per their second
choice closest to that district.
1.5 The completed applications should be sent under registered
cover to the address given below on or before 27.01.2014.
Applications of officers in the state service must be
forwarded through the respective head of Institution.
Commissioner General of Examination,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examination,
Palawatta,
Battaramulla.
The words 'The Open Competitive Examination for the
Recruitment to the Post of Agrarian Development Officer
Grade II - 2013 (2014)' should be written on the top left
hand corner of the envelop containing the application form.
1.6 Late and incomplete application will be rejected without
any notice. No allegation that an application form has
been lost or delayed in post can be considered. Please
keep a photocopy of the application for future reference.
2. Conditions of Service :
2.1 This post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions
should be made to the widow/widower and orphans
pension scheme.
2.2 All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the
regulations set out in the section 10 - 12 chapter II of the
Establishment Code.
2.3 Appointees should comply with the provisions of the
Establishment Code and Financial Regulations and any
other rules and regulations imposed by the Government
from time to time.
3. Qualifications.– Every applicant -
3.1 Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
3.2 Should be of excellent moral character ;
3.3 Be eligible to serve in any parts of the island ;
3.4 should more than 21 years of age and less than 35 years at
closing date of application. Upper age limit is not
applicable to those who are in the Public Service.
4. Educational Qualifications. – A degree from a university
recognized by the University Grants Commission.
5. Examination Procedure :
5.1 Conditions of written examination :
Although this is a competitive examination candidates are
required to obtain minimum 40% marks in order to qualify
in one subject. Candidates are selected on merit basis as
per the total marks obtained at the examination subject to
the available vacancies.
5.2 Syllabus.– The examination will be consist of two question
papers.
Marks Time
1. Comprehension 100 1 1/2
 hours
2. Intelligence Test 100 1 1/2  hours
Candidates will be required to obtain minimum 40% marks
for a pass.
01. Comprehension :
This paper will consist of questions designed to text
the Candidates ability of expression, comprehension.
Short text will be given to the candidates 40 write the
meaning of the text in one a single sentence. The other
texts will be given with several alternatives answers
to choose the most suitable answer, and answering to
the questions text is also designed for the candidates
must answer all the questions.
02. Intelligence Test :
The paper will consist of questions designed to test
the knowledge of the candidate's ability in logical

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2469
thinking and analytical reasoning and ability in
determining. This paper will consist of multiple choice
questions and those for which short replies are
required.
5.3 This text will be conducted in Sinhala and Tamil medium.
An applicant will not be permitted to change later the
language of the examination. Answering to all question
papers should be one language medium.
5.4 Issue of the results of the Examination :
Candidates who obtain 40% marks or more for each paper
will be listed on merit basis as per the total marks. The list
of successful candidates will be sent to the Commissioner
General of Agrarian Development by the Commissioner
General of Examination.
In addition to above, a result sheet with marks obtained
for each subject together with total will be sent to each
candidate.
6.Salary Scale: (Monthly). – As per the Public Administration
Circular No.06/2006 (iv), the monthly salary will be as follows :
Rs. 16,720-10x320-11x365 -15x450- Rs. 30,685
7. Promotional Procedure. – It is relevant to the recruitment
procedure of the Agrarian Development Officer.
8.Examination Fees.– The fee for the examination will be Rs.600
which may be paid at any Agrarian Service Centre and a receipt
bearing Code A.S.C. 2 (w) will be issued to the applicant. The
receipt issued therefore should be pasted firmly to the relevant
cage of application. A photocopy should be retained for future
reference. The fee will not be refunded in any circumstance.
9.Implementation of official language policy.– According to the
provisions of the Public Administration Circular No. 7/2007 dated
28.04.2007. Officers, who enter to the service after 01.07.2007,
should obtain proficiency of other official language within a period
of 5 years.
10. Candidate's identity should be attested by a Principal of a
Government School, Justice of the Peace, Commissioner for Oaths,
Notary Public, a Commissioned Officer in the armed forces, an
officer holding a gazetted post in the Police Service or an Officer
holding a staff grade post in the Government Service. Candidates
who failed to attest the admission card will not be allowed to sit for
the examination.
11. As soon as admission cards are issued to the applicants, a
newspaper notice will be published by the Department of
Examinations. Candidates who do not receive admission cards even
after 2 or 3 days from the date of publication of the notice should
inform the Department of Examination as mentioned in the notice.
It would be effective to make inquiries in that regard from the
Department of Examinations with the following particulars: a
certified photocopy of the application and the receipt, registered
post article receipt, your letter of request, stating the fax number
which the admission card should be sent if the candidate is resident
out of Colombo.
12. The issue of an admission card to sit for the examination
shall not be treated as acceptance that a candidate has fulfilled the
necessary qualifications for this post.
13. Candidates are required to poduce to the supervisor any one
of the following documents in order to prove their identity. Valid
National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration
of Persons, a valid passport. Candidates are required to produce to
the supervisor the admission attested on the day of the examination.
14. All candidates are subjected to general rules and regulations
set out by the Commissioner General of Examination. The violation
of such rules and regulations will be a punishable offence.
M. A. S. W
EERASINGHE,
 Commissioner General of
Agrarian Development.
Department of Agrarian Development,
P. O. Box 537
Colombo 07.
11th December, 2013.
(For office use only)
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO AGRARIAN
DEVELOPMENT OFFICER GRADE II IN THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRARIAN
DEVELOPMENT  - 2013 (2014)
Medium of Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
(write the relevant digit in the cage)
Town No. of the Town
1.
2.
(See Schedule 1 for towns in which examination centers will be
established and their numbers)
01. (i) Name with initials :–––––––––.
(in English block capitals) (Ex:- SUNIL A.B.)
(ii) Name in full (in English block capitals) :–––––––––.
(iii) Name in full (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
02. National Identity Card Number :
03. (i) Permanent address (in English block capitals) :–––––––––.
(ii) Address to which the admission card should be sent (in
English block letters) :–––––––––.
04. (i) Sex:
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Indicate the relevant digit in the cage)

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2470
5. (i) Date of birth:
Year: Month: Date:
(ii) Age as at the Closing date of the Application :
Years: Months: Days:
.
06. Married /Unmarried:
Unmarried - 1
Married - 2
07. Telephone No. :
08. (i) Degree Obtained and Effective date of the Degree :––––––.
(ii) University of Degree obtained :–––––––––.
(iii)Class obtained : General/Special/First Class/Upper or Lower/
Second Class/Upper/Lower :–––––––––.
(iv)Subjects :–––––––––.
09. The receipt number date of issue and name of Agrarian
Development Centre:
(Paste the receipt here firmly)
10. Candidate's Certificate:
1 solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I
agree to suffer any loss that may cause as a result of incompleteness
of section and/or provision of erroneous information. I also state
that all sections herein have been correctly filled. I am aware that if
any particulars contained herein are found to be false I am liable to
disqualification before appointment and to dismissal from service
if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment. I hereby agree to
abide by all the conditions imposed by the Commissioner General
of Examinations for the purpose of holding this examination. I shall
not change any information mentioned herein subsequently.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
11. Attestation of applicant's signature :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................ of who submits
this application is known to me personally and that he/she placed
his/her signature in my presence on ..............
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer attesting the signature.
Date :–––––––––..
Name in full of the Officer, attesting the Signature :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––. .
Address :–––––––––..
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
Certificate of the Head of the Department
I certify that Mr ./Mrs./Miss ................  is in employee of this
Department/Board/Corporation as permanent, casual employee.
In the event of his/her selection for the appointment he/she can/
cannot be released from this Department/Corporation. (Delete
inapplicable works).
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department.
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Department :–––––––––.
(Official Stamp)
Date :–––––––––.
SCHEDULE - 1
Towns and Numbers where Examination centers will be located
Province Town No. of the Town
Western Colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Central Kandy 04
Matale 05
Nuwara - Eliya 06
Southern Galle 07
Matara 08
Hambantota 09
Northern Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Vavuniya 12
Malativu 13
Kilinochchi 14
Western Batticaloa 15
Ampara 16
Trincomalee 17
North Western Kurunegala 18
Puttalam 19
North Central Anuradhapura 20
Polonnaruwa 21
Uva Badulla 22
Monaragala 23
Sabaragamuwa Ratnapura 24
Kegalle 25
12–1184

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2471
MINISTRY  OF  LAND  AND  LAND  DEVELOPMENT
Survey Department
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka for the
Open Competitive Examination to be held to recruit to the post of
Survey Instrument Technician.
01. Number of Vacancies.– 06.
02. Nature of the Post.– Maintenance and Services of instruments
and tools pertaining to surveying.
03. (i) Question papers to be answered :
Subjects Time Maximum Pass
marks marks
Intelligent test 01 hour 100% 40%
General Knowledge 01 hour 100% 40%
(Questions with technical
knowledge relevant to the
post, are included)
2. Selections will be made on the total marks obtained for the
question papers.
04. Recruitment Grade.– Grade III in post of Survey Instrument
technician.
05. Condition of engagement in the service. – This post is
permanent and pensionable, contributions should be paid to the
Widows and Orphans/Widowers and Orphans Pension Fund.
Appointment is subject to 3 year probation period and selected
candidates should prepare to serve only in the Head Office and
subject to general conditions applicable to appointment to the public
service specified at the beginning of this gazette notification.
06. Salary Scale.– MT 1-2006-A - Rs. 14,425 -10x145 -11x170
-6x240 -14x320 - Rs. 23,665.
Initial salary step applicable to the grade system :
Grade Initial Salary Step Initial Salary Scale
III Step 01 Rs. 14,425
II Step 12 Rs. 16,045
I Step 23 Rs. 17,985
07. Age limit.– The minimum age should be 18 years and maximum
age should be 45 years. (The maximum age limit is not appilcable
for those who hold a permanent post already in the public service).
08. Educational Qualifications.– Should have passed the G .C.E.
(O/L) examination in six subjects in not more than two sittings with
five subjects at one sitting with credit passes for three subjects of
Sinhala or Tamil, Science, Mathematics, Arithmetic ;
and
Should have passed G .C.E. (A/l ) examination in Pure
Mathematics, Applied Mathematics, Physics ;
and
Should have followed one year course of electronics or mechanics
in a government recognized technical college.
09. Method of recruitment to the service .– Selection for the
appointments will be made on the results of written examination
out of the candidates who have fulfilled the qualifications, in terms
of the public administration circular No 15/90 and circulars
applicable.
10. It is compulsory that all applicants should complete
necessary qualifications to the post before the closing date of
application.
11. Applications and other particulars :
(a) (i) The application should be prepared by the applicant
himself using 21X29 cm (A4) paper as per the specimen
application appearing at the end of this notice. Item No
01 - 08 should be on page 01, No 09 - 10 iii on page 2,
and No 11 - 16 should be on page 3.The receipt obtained
for the payment of examination should be pasted below
that and "Post of Survey instrument technician" should
be clearly written on the top left hand corner of the
envelope containing the application. Completed
applications should be sent by registered post to reach
to the address of Survey General, Survey Department,
Kirula road, Narahenpita on or before 24
th January 2014.
(Should not be sent to the private name or any other
address)
(ii) Applications, which are incomplete belated and those,
do not fulfilled required qualifications will be rejected.
(iii) For the application loss in the post shall not be held
responsible.
(iv) Examination fees will not be refundable for whatever
reason.
(v) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
(b) The signature of the applicant in the application should be
certified by a principal of a government school or justice of
peace or commissioner of oaths or Attorney - at -law or
commissioned officer in the army or an office in police
service hold a gazette post or an officer who hold a
permanent post in public service in professional or senior
level in terms of grading of public service Circular
No.  06/2006
12. The following documents should be forwarded when
called for :
(i) Birth Certificate
ii) Educational Certificate
iii) Recent Grama Niladhari Certificate
iv) Two Character Certificates
N.B.– Documents or copies of them should not be attached
to the applications.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2472
13. Applicants those who are already in the government service
should forward their applications through their heads of the
Departments.
14. Examination fee is Rs. 800.  The receipt obtained for the
payment of examination fee should be pasted in relevant place of
the application. Money order or cheques will not be accepted.
15. Action will be taken to hold the examination in the head
office or any other suitable Centre. The date of examination will be
noticed to the applicants.
16. Admission to the Examination.– Admission cards are sent by
post to all those who have forwarded applications and fulfilled
basic qualifications, to the address mentioned in their application.
Candidates who sit for the examination should hand over their
admission card to the supervisor of the examination Centre. A
candidate who fails to hand over his admission card will not be
permitted to sit the examination at the examination. The candidate
should sit the examination at the examination hall assigned to him.
Note.- Issuing of admission card shall not be deemed as the
applicant possesses qualifications to the Post or to sit
the examination.
17. Identity of candidate.– Candidates should prove their identity
at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor. Any of
the following documents will be accepted for this purpose.
(a) The National Identity card issued by the Department of
registration of persons ;
(b) The valid postal identity card issued by the post master
general ;
(c) A valid passport .
18. Punishment for furnishing false information.– If a candidate
is found not to have required qualification, his / her candidature can
be cancelled before the examination or duration of the examination
or after the examination or at any time. If any of the particulars
furnished by a candidate are found to be false within his /her
knowledge or if he /she has willfully suppressed any material fact
he /she will be liable to dismissal from the Public Service.
19. Medium of Language .– This examination will be held in
Sinhala, Tamil and English medium. Candidates may present
themselves for examination in the medium preferred. The medium
applied for will not be allowed to change subsequently.
20. Matters not covered by the condition will be determined by
the Surveyor General.
K.T
HA V ALINGAM,
Surveyor General.
Survey Department,
Colombo 05,
13th December, 2013.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
C
OMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR THE POST OF SURVEY INSTRUMENT
TECHNICIAN IN SURVEY DEPARTMENT
(For office use only)
(Indicate the code in the relevant cage)
01. 1. Name with Initials :
(i) In Sinhala :––––––––––.
(ii) In English :––––––––––.
2. Names denoted by initials ( in legible letters) :
(i) In Sinhala :––––––––––.
(ii) In English  :––––––––––.
02. (i) Permanent address (In legible letters) :––––––––––.
(ii) Administrative district to which address belong :–––––.
03. Gender (Male - M, Female - F) :
04. Medium of examination :
(Sinhala - S, Tamil- T, English - E)
05. Race :
(Sinhala - 1, Sri Lankan Tamil- 2, Muslim -3,
Indian Tamil- 4, Burger - 5, Male - 6, Other - 7)
06. (i) Divisional Secretariat :––––––––––.
(ii)  Grama Niladhari Division :––––––––––.
(iii) Date from which the applicant is resident in the district
:––––––––––.
07. Citizenship :
By descent
By registration
08. National Identity Card No. :
09. (i) Date of Birth :
Date :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Year :–––––––.
(ii) Age as at the closing date of application.
Days :––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Years :––––––.
11. Educational Qualifications - 1st attempt :
(i) G.C.E. (O/L) examination :
1. Year and month of the examination:
2. Index No:
3. Subjects passed:
Subject Grade Subject Grade
15
26
37
48

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2473
(ii) G.C.E. (O/L) examination – 2nd attempt :
1. Year and month of the examination:
2. Index No:
3. Subjects passed:
Subject Grade Subject Grade
15
26
37
48
(iii) G.C.E. (A/L) examination :
1. Year and month of the examination:
2. Index No:
3. Subjects passed:
Subject Grade
1
2
3
4
11. Other Qualifications :––––––––––.
12. Have you ever been convicted in a Court of Law for any offence :
Yes N o
If yes, give details :––––––––––.
13. Survey Office at which the, payment made :––––––––––.
Receipt No. :––––––––––.
Date, the payment made :––––––––––.
14. Certificate of the candidate :
(a) I declare that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
(b) I am aware that if this declaration made by me is found to
be wrong, I would be considered unfit for the appointment
and if it is found after the appointment, I would be liable
to dismissal from the service.
(c) I agree to comply with the regulations of this examination.
(d) The cash receipt obtained for the payment of ...............
has been pasted in relevant place.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
15. Certification of signature of the applicant :
I certify that Mr. /Mrs. /Miss ..................... who is submitting
the application is personally known to me and that he / she placed
his/ her signature in my presence.
–––––––––––,
Signature of attester.
Date :––––––––––.
Name of the attester :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
16. Recommendation of the Head of the Department. If selected,
this officer can be/cannot be released.
––––––––––,
Signature of the head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
12–1185
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  AND  SKILLS  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Technical Education and Training
ADMISSION OF STUDENTS TO NVQ LEVEL 5 DIPLOMA COURSES
CONDUCTED AT COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY – 2014
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible candidates for courses conducted in Colleges of Technology appearing in this Notificatio n.
Students will be selected for admission among applicants according to the qualifications and merit and the place available in each course.
02. The prospective candidates are advised to prepare applications by themselves on a 13" x 8" sheet of paper in accordance with
the "Specimen Application Form" given in this notification. As specified in item 14 in the specimen application form, each appl ication

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2474
should be affixed with a valid Rs. 10 stamp duly cancelled with the candidate's usual signature. Duly completed applications should be sent
under Registered cover to reach the Director of the respective College of Technology  on or before 28.01.2014.
03. The top left hand corner of the envelope should be marked with the title of the course applied for, an its course code.
04. Applications received after the prescribed date will be rejected.
05. Fee of Rs. 2,000 will be charged for Part Time/Evening Course per year.
06. All courses are conducted in English medium.
07. Attention of all candidates is invited to the Schedule of courses annexed at the end of this notification, which indicates the
nature of courses, eligibility requirements for each course, the colleges where the courses are conducted. The addresses of Col leges of
Technology are shown in the List of Colleges of Technology.
08. A candidate seeking admission to follow a course in these colleges of Technology should –
(i) have a good character,
(ii) be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(iii) have fulfilled all the eligibility requirements for admission at the time of forwarding the application.
09. Suitable candidates will be selected on the results of an aptitude test and an interview.
10. Any documents or copies thereof, should not be submitted along with the application. Those candidates who fail to produce
the necessary and acceptable documents to prove their eligibility at the interview will be disqualified.
11. * Rs. 50 will be paid as a stipend per day according to the attendance depending on basic of family income and subject to
maximum amount of Rs. 1,000 for those who follow any full time course.
* Selected Full Time Day Course students, from low income families are paid a bursary of Rs. 2,500 per year.
12. The candidate is held entirely responsible for the authenticity of his/her documents. Candidates who submit documents that
have been tampered with or forged or not proved in fact will be severely dealt with.
13. To conduct all courses or several courses in this Gazette notification for the Academic Year 2014, in Colleges of Technology are
subject to discretion of the Director General of Department of Technical Education and Training.
Candidates can apply for more than one course using separate application forms for each course.
S. B
ALASUBRAMANIAM,
Director General,
Department of Technical Education and Training.
P. O. Box 557,
Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
www.dtet.gov.lk
Note.– For Quantity Surveying Technology part time and day time courses, applicant, who apply,
* For Technical College Kalutara and Gampaha should send their applications to College of Technology, Maradana.
* For Technical College Balapitiya, Matara and Beliatta should send their applications to College of Technology, Galle.
* For Technical College, Bandarawela should send their applications to College of Technology, Badulla ; and
*  For Technical College Kegalle and Warakapola should send their applications to College of Technology Rathnapura.
Further, applicants should mention the college of Technology, where the Technical College, apply under No. 01 of application,
belongs and should mention name of the Technical College within brackets, as same, Eg.– College of Technology, Rathnapura (Technical
College, Kegalle).

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2475
THE LIST OF COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY
Serial Colleges of Technology Address District Tele. No. E-mail
No.
01. Sri Lanka College of Technology, Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 011-2324177 tecmaradana@gmail.com
Maradana Colombo 10
02. College of Technology, Galle Kaluwella, Galle Galle 091-2234051 cotgalle2007@gmail.com
03. College of Technology , Kandy Aruppola, Kandy Kandy 081-2224063 kandycot@gmail.com
04. College of Technology, Jaffna Browns Road, Jaffna Jaffna 021-2222358 cotjaffna@gmail.com
05. College of Technology, Badulla Greenlane Drive, Badulla Badulla 055-2222413 cotbadulla@gmail.com
06. College of Technology, Anuradhapura New Town, Anuradhapura Anuradhapura 025-2222666 cotanuradhapura@gmail.com
07. College of Technology, Kurunegala P uttalam Road, Kurunegala Kurunegala 037-2223264 cotkurunegala@gmail.com
08. Hardy College of T echnology, Ampara I nginiyagala Road, Ampara Ampara 063-2223485 cotampara@gmail.com
09. College of Technology, Ratnapura Plam Gardens, Colombo
Road, Ratnapura Ratnapura 045-2232390 cotrathnapura@gmail.com
ADMISSION OF STUDENTS TO NVQ LEVEL 5 DIPLOMA LEVEL COURSES CONDUCTED
AT COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY
Serial Course Name of Course Conducted Adm ission Qualification
No. Code No. and the nature College of * Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 certificates
Technology for below mention courses
* Age level should be more than 17 years
01 ETB 01 T elecommunication Technology Galle, Jaffna * Computer Hardware Technician
Full time day course two years * Computer Network Technician
Combined (NVQ 5/6) * Radio, TV and allied equipment Repairer
02 ETB 04 Mechatronics Technology Maradana, * Radio, TV and allied Equipment Repairer
Galle * Computer Hardware Technician
Full time day course one year * Electrician
* Pneumatic Technician
ETB 04.1 Mechatronics Technology Galle * Automobile Technician
weekends/Part time Mara dana * Automobile Electrician
(No. of allocated hours for NVQ * House Hold Electrical Appliances Repairer
Level 5) * Fitter (General)
03 ETB 06 Construction Technology Badulla * Construction Craftsman (Masonry)
Kurunegala * W ood craftsman (Building)
Full time day course one year Anuradhapura * Construction Site Supervisor
Kandy * Plumber
Rathnapura * Industrial Plumber
* Painter (Building)
* Draughtsmen
* Assistant quantity Surveyor
ETB 06.1 Construction Technology Galle, Ampara
Weekends/Part time Jaffna,
(No. of allocated hours for Ratnapura,
NVQ Level 5) Kurunegala
04 ETB 07 Automobile Technology Ampara, Jaffna, * Automobile Mechanic
Full time day course one year Kurunegala, * Automobile Electrician
Kandy, Badulla * Automobile Painter
* Motor Cycle Mechanic and Three-wheeler
ETB 07.1 Automobile Technology weekends/ Kurunegala, Mechanic
part time (No. of allocated hours Jaffna, Kandy * Three-wheeler Mechanic
for NVQ level 5)

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2476
05 ETB 08 Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Anuradhapura, * Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Mechanic
Technology Ratnapura * Automobile Air Conditioning Mechanic
Full time day course one year Kandy * Automobile Electrician
* Household Electrical Appliances Repairer
ETB 08.1 Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Ratnapura, * Electrician
Technology An uradhapura
Weekends/Part Time (No. of
allocated hours for NVQ Level 5)
06 ETB 09 Farm Machinery Technology Anuradhapura * Tea Factory Mechanic
Full time day course one year * Agriculture equipment Mechanic
* Automobile Mechanic
ETB 09.1 Farm Machinery Technology Anuradhapura * Machinist
* Construction equipment Mechanic
Weekends/Part Time (No. of
allocated hours for NVQ Level 5)
07 ETB 11 Information and Communication Maradana, * Information and Communication Technician
Technology Kandy, Galle, * Computer Application Assistant
Badulla, * Computer Graphic Designer
Full time day course one year Ratnapura, * Computer Hardware Technician
Jaffna, * Desk Top Publisher
Kurunegala, * Computer Network Technician
Kegalle, Ampara
ETB 11.1 Information and Communication Galle, Ratnapura,
Technology weekends/part time Maradana,
(No. of allocatted hours for NVQ Anuradhapura,
Level 5) Jaffna
08 ETB 12 Welding Technology Ma radana * W elder
Full time day course one year * Metal fabricator
* Automobile Tinker
ETB 12.1 W elding Technology Ma radana * Fitter (General)
Weekends/Part Time (No. of
allocated hours for NVQ Level 5)
09 ETB 14 Food Technology Kandy * Baker
Full time day course one year * Fruit and Vegetable Processor
* Cook
ETB 14.1 Food Technology Kandy
Weekends/Part Time (No. of
allocated hours for NVQ Level 5)
10 ETB 15 Jewellery Design and Maradana * Jewellery Maker
Manufacturing Technology * Jewellery Stone Setter
Full time day course one year
ETB 15.1 Jewellery Design and Maradana
Manufacturing Technology
Weekends/Part Time (No. of
allocated hours for NVQ Level 5)
Serial Course Name of Course Conducted Admission Qualification :
No. Code No. and the nature College of * Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 Certificate
Technology for below mention courses
* Age level should be more than 17 years

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2477
Serial Course Name of Course Conducted Admission Qualification :
No. Code No. and the nature College of * Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 Certificate
Technology for below mention courses
* Age level should be more than 17 years
11 ETB 16 Production Technology Kandy * Aluminium Fabricator
Full time day course one year * Machinist
* Tool, Die and Mould Maker
* Welder
* Metal Fabricator
* Fitter (General)
12 ETB 17 Quantity Surveying Technology Kandy
Full time day course one year Ratnapura,
Warakapola,
(Should have completed the NVQ Galle, Kegalle
Level 4 modules and have passed Maradana,
the assessment before obtain NVQ Badulla,
Level 5 certificate) Bandarawela,
Anuradhapura,
Ampara, Jaffna
Gampaha, Matara,
Kurunagala,
Balaptiya, Beliatta,
Kalutara
ETB 17.1 Quantity Surveying Technology Kandy, Ratnapura, * G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six (06) subjects
Maradana, with four (04) credit passes including Science,
Weekends/Part time (No. of Anuradhapura, Mathamatics and medium language in one sitting.
allocated hours for NVQ Level 5) Jaffna, Kurunagala, * Should have at least an ordinary pass for English
Matara Language.
(Should have completed the NVQ * Preference will be given to the candidates those
Level 4 modules and have passed who have followed Pure Maths/Applied Maths
the assessment before obtain or Combined Maths and/or Hard Technology
NVQ Level 5 Certificate) subject in G. C. E. (A/L) Examination.
S
PECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY NVQ LEVEL 05 DIPLOMA LEVEL COURSES, ACADEMIC YEAR – 2014
For Official use only
01. Name of the College of Technology applied :––––––––––––.
02. Name of the course :––––––––––––. (full time day/evening/part time)
03. Course Code No. :––––––––––––.
04. Applicant’s Name with initials :––––––––––––.
05. Names indicated by initials :––––––––––––.
06. Permanent address :––––––––––––.
07. Contact Telephone Number :––––––––––––.       E-mail :––––––––––––.
08. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
09. District :––––––––––––. Electorate :––––––––––––.
Divisional Secretariat :––––––––––––.
Gramaniladari Division :––––––––––––.
10. Date of birth :––––––––––––.
Age as at 01.01.2014 :
Years :––––––––––––, Months :––––––––––––, Days :––––––––––––.
11. Male/Female :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2478
12. Qualifications for admission [mention your qualifications in the relevant cage according to the Gazette Notification] :
Admission qualifications for course/Details of certificates
Name of Certificate NVQ Level Name of the Institute, Details of Service
Received followed the course Experience Y ear     Month
13. Educational qualifications :
(a) G . C. E. (O/L) results (not more than two attempts) :
Index No. Year Subjects Grade
(b) G . C. E. (A/L) results :
Index No. Year Subjects Grade
14. Applicant’s declaration :
I hereby certify that the information given in this application is true to my knowledge and I have obtained the qualifications
required for the course applied for. Further, I agree with the scheme of selection of students to Colleges of Technology and to accept the
decision of the Director General of the Department of Technical Education and Training as final.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :––––––––––––.
Stamp to the value of Rs. 10 should be affixed here and cancelled by signing on it.
12–1246
–––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry of External Affairs
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT  TO  GRADE  III  OF  THE  SRI  LANKA
FOREIGN  SERVICE - 2013 (2014)
APPLICATIONS are hereby called to fill 25 vacancies in Grade III
of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service (hereinafter referred to as the
"Service") from candidates who are eligible in terms of the Section
02 of this notification.
01. Method of recruitment :
The qualified candidates in terms of this notification are required
to sit for a written examination and a structured interview and will
be selected for appointment based on the total aggregate of marks
obtained at the written examination and the viva-voce taken together,
by the Public Service Commission.
02. Eligibility :
(i) Educational/Professional qualifications :
• have obtained a degree from a recognized University in
Sri Lanka ; or
• a foreign University recognized by the University Grants
Commission of Sri Lanka (UGC).
Documentary proof to this effect issued by the UGC
should be submitted by the candidate at the time of viva
voce.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2479
(ii) Health :
All candidates should be physically and mentally sound
for serving in any part of the world and performing
duties in the post.
(iii) Other :
(a) be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) has an excellent moral character.
(c) have fulfilled all requirements to be recruited to the
post by the closing date of applications.
03. Terms and conditions of the service :
(i) The selected candidates for the service shall subject to
the terms and conditions set out in the Sri Lanka Foreign
Service Minute of 2001 and amendments thereto, in terms
of the general conditions governing appointments in the
Public Service.
(ii) This post is permanent and pensionable and the Scheme
of Pension of the Widows
’ and Orphans ’/Widowers’
and Orphans’ should be contributed.
(iii) The appointment shall be made for a 03 year probation
period. Within 03 years after recruitment to Grade III of
the Sri Lanka Foreign Service, the officer is required to
pass the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination in terms of the
Service Minute.
(iv) In terms of the Public Administration Circular No.
07/2007 and amendments thereto, the officers who are
recruited to the Public Service should gain proficiency in
the other official language within 05 years after
recruitment to the service. The officers who are recruited
to the service in a language other than the official languages
are required to fulfill the official language requirement
during the probation period.
(v) This appointment is subjected to the Procedural Rules
of the Public Service Commission, Establishments Code
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka,
Government Financial Regulations as well as the other
Departmental orders.
04. Age limit :
Have attained the age of 22 years and have not attained the age
of 32 years on the closing date of applications. In case of a candidate
who is already in the Public Service, such a candidate must not have
attained the age of 40 years on the closing date of applications and
should possess a satisfactory record of service.
Note :
(i) For the purpose of Clause 4 above, a candidate in the
Public Service means(as defined in Chapter I of the
Establishments Code), any officer who has been
confirmed in the Public Service or in the Provincial Public
Service by the closing date of applications.
(ii) A candidate in the Public Service will not be eligible to
sit this examination unless he/she has had a satisfactory
record of service during the 05 years immediately
preceding the closing date of application or if the period
of service is less than 05 years during the total period of
service with the Government.
(iii) A mem ber of the Public Service will be considered to
have a satisfactory record of service only if he/she has
earned on the due date, all increments within the 05
years immediately preceding the closing date of
application or if the period of service is less than 05
years during the total period of his/her service in the
respective Institution, and has not suffered any
punishment whatsoever (except a warning) in respect of
any offences committed during the period as mentioned
above.
(iv) Applicants in the Public Service should send their
applications through their respective Heads of
Department/Institution.
05. Salary structure :
The applicable salary code for this Service is SL-I-2006 of the
Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006. The applicable salary
scale is as follows:
Rs. 22,935 -10x645 -8x790 -17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (monthly).
06. Written examination :
(i) Will be beld in Colombo in April 2014, by the
Commissioner General of Examinations on behalf of the
Public Service Commission. The decision of the
Commissioner General of Examinations will be the final
in conducting of the examination and issuance of results.
(ii) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
medium only.
(iii) A candidate can apply in one of the three languages
mentioned above and he/she must sit all the question
papers in the language medium applied for. The language
medium in which the candidate applied for cannot be
changed.
(iv) Written examination will consist of question papers on
the following subjects :
Subject Subjects Duration Marks
No.
01 General Paper 3 hours 100
02 World Affairs I 3 hours 100
03 World Affairs II 3 hours 100
04 Essay 3 hours 100
05 Pre 'cis 1 hour 100
06 Aptitude Test and General 1 hour and 100
Knowledge 40 minutes
(multiple choice questions)

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2480
Syllabus for Written Examination :
(01) General Paper  - This question paper is designed to test
the candidate’s knowledge of the political, social, cultural
and economic environment of Sri Lanka, matters of current
national and international interest as well as scientific and
technological developments.
(02) World Affairs I - This paper will consist of questions on
current global political developments, the United Nations
and other International Organizations, conflict situations
and development of various national and international
movements, in order to ascertain the candidate’s ability to
analyze global trends for peace, security and development
and their impact on Sri Lanka.
 (03) World Affairs II - This paper will consist of questions on
recent trends in trade and economic development including
the role played by International Organizations, the impact
of regional economic groupings, issues such as environment
and sustainable development, and their relevance to Sri
Lanka.
(04) Essay - An essay to be written on one or more specified
subjects. These subjects will not be related to any subject
field of study but will be designed to test the candidate’s
general knowledge and intelligence and his/her general
ability both in powers of thinking and expression. The
essay will be judged by the degree of thoughtfulness and
originality in its treatment of the subject as well as by its
language, style and presentation. It must be clearly and
legibly written.
Note .– The attention of candidates is drawn to the
importance of relevance and legibility. Credit will be
given to careful examination of the subject to the degree
of analytical thinking, the quality of writing and ability
to express oneself concisely and clearly.
(05) Pre'cis - The paper is designed to test the candidate’s
ability to grasp the meaning of a given passage and to
express it effectively and concisely.
(06) Aptitude Test and General Knowledge - This paper will be
in two parts, comprising the following sections, each in
the form of multiple choice questions. 50 marks will be
given for each part :-
(a) Aptitude Test- To assess the powers of logical reasoning
and analytical ability of the candidate.
(b) General Knowledge and current Affairs - To test the
candidate’s knowledge of current developments in the
political, economic and socio- cultural fields, both local
and international.
07. Viva Voce :
(i) Only candidates who have obtained minimum marks of
40% for each paper and the aggregate marks at or above
the cutoff point determined by the Public Service
Commission, which will not be less than 300 marks,
shall be called for the viva voce. However the number
of candidates to be called shall not exceed five times the
number of vacancies to be filled.
(ii) The viva voce will carry 100 marks. Under no
circumstances, shall the minimum aggregate cut off marks
be lowered.
(iii) The candidates will be interviewed on matters of general
interest by an Interview Board appointed by the Public
Service Commission. The objective of the interview is
to assess his/her suitability for the service for which
he/she is entering. The Board will attach particular
importance to his/her intelligence and mental alertness,
his/her strength of character and his/her potential
qualities of leadership. A candidate’s proficiency in other
languages, higher educational qualifications and computer
skills etc. will also be assessed at the interview.
(iv) The marking scheme of the structured interview is as
follows :
Heads available for awards of marks at the interview National Maximum
Marks Marks
01 Additional Educational Qualifications :2 0
A degree from a recognized University
(a) Degree with 1st Class 20
(b) Degree with 2nd Class upper 15
(c) Degree with 2nd Class lower 10
02 Professional Qualifications : 20
(a) Master degree in the relevant field from a recognized institution 20
(b) Post Graduate Diploma in the relevant field from a recognized institution 15
(Duration more than 01 year)
(c) Diploma in the relevant field from a recognized institution (Duration more than 12
06 months / more than 720 hrs.)
(
d) Diploma in the relevant field from a recognized institution (Duration more than 03 10
months/more than 360 hrs.) -05 marks for each course

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2481
Heads available for awards of marks t the interview National Maximum
Marks Marks
03 Proficiency in English 15
(a) English Special Degree 10
(b) English as a subject in the Degree (General Arts Degree) 08
(c) Degree in English Medium 08
(d) Diploma from a recognized University, Technical College or from 06
a government registered Institution (Duration more than 01 year)
OR
qualification such as TOEFL (TOEFL-iBT Score 79, TOEFL-CBT Score 213,
TOEFL-PBT Score 550 or above) or lELTS (Score 6.0 or above).
(e) English Subject in G .C.E. (A/L) Exam (Local or London)
Distinction 05
Credit 04
(f) Proficiency in Spoken English 05
04 Proficiency in Foreign Language 15
Proficiency in Foreign Language other than English at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination standard or above
OR
Certificate course or above from a government registered institution (Duration more than
03 months/more than 360 hrs.)
05 marks for each language (maximum 03 languages)
05 Computer Skills 10
(a) Degree from a recognized University 10
(b) Diploma from a recognized University, Technical College or from a government 08
registered institution(Duration more than 01 year)
(c) Certificate Course from a government registered Institution (Duration more than 05
06 months / more than 720 hrs.)
(If the IT Degree is the basic qualification, marks  will not be granted for IT
degree under this stream.)
06 Proficiency in Official Languages 10
Proficiency of Official Languages and link language in GCE (O/L) Standard or above
OR
Certificate course or above from a government registered institution (Duration more than
03 months/more than 360 hrs.)
05 marks for each language (maximum 02 languages)
07 Personality, presentation and special aptitudes 10
Total 100
08. Method of Application :
(i) Application forms should be prepared in an A-4 size paper as per the specimen appended to this notification,
containing items 1-7 on the first page and the rest on the 2nd and 3rd pages. Both sides of the paper should be used.
Application should be filled in by applicant's own handwriting clearly. Application prepared in Sinhala or Tamil
language should indicate the name of the examination in the head of the application, in English as well.
Applications which are not in conformity with the specimen and are not duly completed will be rejected without any
notification. Applicants are advised to keep a photocopy of the application.
(ii) The application should be in the language medium in which the candidate intends to sit the examination.
(iii) Closing date for the applications is 31st January, 2014. The completed application must be sent by registered post to
the “Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign Examination Branch, Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla” so as to reach on or before the closing date of applications. No application received after the

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2482
closing date will be accepted. The top left-hand corner of
the envelope containing the application, should bear
clearly the words “Open Competitive Examination for
Recruitment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service
- 2013 (2014)” and English letter “S” should be clearly
indicated within a cage (2cm X 2cm) on the top of the left
side of the envelope.
(iv) Any application which is not complete in every respect
is liable to be rejected. No claim that an application has
been lost or delayed in the post will be considered.
(v) Receipt of the applications will not be acknowledged.
Admission Cards will be issued to the applicants who
applied for the examination in due form by the
Commissioner General of Examinations. A notice will be
published in news papers by the Department of
Examinations,  as soon as Admission Cards are issued. If
a candidate does not receive the Admission even 02/03
days after the notification, it should be informed to the
Department of Examinations through the contact numbers
indicated in the notification. Details, such as full name of
the applicant, address, National Identity Card number
and the name of the examination should be indicated. It is
advisable to keep copies of the application, the payment
receipt and the receipt issued for sending the application
by registered post, to be used in the event of such an
inquiry.
It is also advisable for the applicants outside Colombo to
make a request with full details referred to above to the
Commissioner General of Examinations, for a copy of
the Admission Card by fax, in the event the Admission
Card is not received by an applicant.
09. Admission to the Examination :
(i) A candidate presenting himself/herself for the examination
must produce his/her Admission Card, duly attested, in
terms of the instructions stipulated in the back of the
Admission Card, to the supervisor of the examination
center on the first day of the examination. A candidate
who fails to produce his/her Admission Card will not be
permitted to sit for the Examination. Candidates will be
subject to the rules and regulations governing the
examination procedures imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations. A candidate, in case of violation
of such law, shall be subject to a penalty imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
(ii) A candidate must sit the examination at the examination
hall assigned to him/her. Every candidate should surrender
the Admission Card to the Supervisor of the hall, on the
first day of the examination, before himself/herself
presenting for the examination. A set of rules to be
observed by all candidates is upblished in this Gazette.
Note.– Issuance of Admission Card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that he/she has the requisite
qualifications in the Gazette Notification.
10. Fees for the Examination :
The fee for the examination is Rs. 1,000. This fee should be paid
before the closing date of applications at the nearest District Secretariat
or Divisional Secretariat and credited to the Revenue Head 2003-02-13.
The receipt issued on payment under the name of the applicant
should be pasted on the relevant space of the application. Keeping a
photocopy of the recipt will be useful.
Note.– A candidate who withdraws himself/herself or is absent
from the examination for any reason whatsoever or having
sat for the examination is found to be ineligible, shall not
be entitled to a refund of the whole or portion of the
examination fee.
11. Identification of Candidates :
A candidate will be required to prove his/her identity at the
examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject
he/she offers. For this purpose any of the following documents will
be accepted :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons,
(ii) A Valid Passport.
12. Issuance of Results :
After issuance of examination results, the applicants will be
notified individually as determined by the Public Service Commission.
13. Furnishing of false information :
If the details provided by an applicant in the application are
found to be false or incorrect before the recruitment, his/her candidature
will be cancelled. If such particulars frnished by an applicant are
found false or incorrect after the recruitment, he/she will be liable to
be dismissed from the service.
14. Any matter not provided for in this Gazette Notification will
be dealt with as determined by the Public Service Commission. Public
Service Commission reserves the right to fill the vacancies, wholly or
partly or not to fill any vacancy.
15. If there is any discrepancy with regard to the interpretation,
the Sinhala version shall prevail.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
K
ARUNATILAKA AMUNUGAMA,
Secretary,
Ministry of External Affairs.
Ministry of External Affairs,
Republic Building,
Colombo 01,
11th December, 2013.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2013
2483
SPECIMEN OF THE APPLICATION
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT
TO GRADE III OF THE SRI LANKA FOREIGN
SERVICE – 2013(2014)
(For office use only)
Medium of Examination :
Please write the appropriate No. in the cage
(Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, English - 4)
01. (i) ( a) Last name with initials (in English block capitals) :
––––––––.
(Example : SUMANASIRI, E. D. C. B. A.)
(b) Last name with initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
(ii) (a) Names denoted by initials (in English block capitals) :
–––––––––.
(b) Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––.
02. Address :
(i) Private (In English block capitals) :–––––––––.
(Admission Cards will be posted to this address)
(ii) Official :–––––––––.
(iii) Telephone Nos. : Official :–––––––––.
Residence :–––––––––.
03. Sex :
Please write the appropriate No. in the cage
(Male - 0, Female - 1)
04. National Identity Card No. :
05. (i) Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(ii) Age on the closing date of application :
Years : Months : Days :
06. Nationality :
Please write the appropriate No. in the cage
(Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2, Indian Tamil - 3, Muslim - 4,
Others - 5)
07. Civil status :
Please write the appropriate No. in the cage
(Single - 1, Married - 2)
08. State the year/years in which you have sat for the examination
for appointment to the Sri Lanka Foreign Service previosuly :
(i) –––––––––––––
(ii) –––––––––––––
(iii) –––––––––––––
09. Are you a graduate holding a post in the Public Service. If so,
state the name of the post :–––––––––.
10. Details of the University Degree (Please read paragraph 2(i) of
the notification carefully to see whether you are qualified in this
respect) :
(i) Name of the University :–––––––––.
(ii) Degree :–––––––––.
(iii) Date of award :–––––––––.
(iv) General/Special :–––––––––.
(v) Subjects :–––––––––.
(vi) Class :–––––––––.
11. If you have any other academic/professional qualifications
(postgraduate degree/diploma/proficiency in foreign languages
etc.) Please give details below :–––––––––.
12. I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the
information given in this form is true and that I have affixed the
receipt No. ............... dated ............... being payment of the
Examination Fee. I also agree to be bound by the rules governing
the examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel my
candidature prior to, during or after the examination, if it is
found that I am ineligible according to the regulations of this
examination. Further, I agree that I will be subject to rules and
regulations on Examination Procedures imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Please paste the payment receipt here
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt.)
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
13. C
ERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF DEPARTMENT/INSTITUTION
(Only for candidates already in the Public Service/Provincial
Public Service)
I have ascertained that during 5 years/.......... years preceding
........... Mr./Mrs./Miss. .................... has ( a) earned all his/her
increments. ( b) not been subjected to any form of disciplinary
punishment (excluding warning).
I certify that the particulars given in the application are correct
and he/she has paid the relevant examination fees and attached the
cash receipt herein.
This officer if selected could be released from his/her present
post immediately.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department and
Designation.
Date :––––––––––.
12–1117
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.