

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2320$35 - 2023 fmnrjdß ui 21 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2023'02'21
No. 2320/35 -  Tuesday,   FeBRuaRy  21,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- G 38919 - 07 (02/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L.d.- B 3/2013 (iii)
MERChANT ShIPPING ACT, No. 52 Of 1971
ReGuLaTIONs made by the Minister of Ports, shipping and aviation under section 321 of the Merchant shipping act, No. 
52 of 1971 read with section 139 of the said act. 
 Nimal Siripala De Silv a,
 Minister of Ports, shipping and aviation.
Colombo,
08th of February, 2023.
Regulations
1. (1) These regulations may be cited as the Merchant shipping (special Measures to enhance Maritime security) 
Regulations, No. 01 of 2023.
(2) The purpose of these regulations shall be to give effect to Chapter XI-2 of the International Convention for 
the safety of Life at sea 1974 (hereinafter referred to as the “Convention”), Protocol of 1988 as amended from time to time 
and any subsequent amendment made to such Protocol and the International ship and Port Facility security (IsPs) Code.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.02.2023
2a
PaRT 1
ApplicAbility Of these RegulAtiOns
2. (1) subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (2) of this regulation, these regulations shall apply to -
	 (a)	 the	following	types	of	ships	which	are	entitled	to	fly	the	Sri	Lanka	flag	and	engaged	in	international	
voyages — 
 (i) passenger ships, including high speed passenger craft;
 (ii)  cargo ships, including high speed craft, of 500 gross tonnage and above; and 
 (iii)  mobile offshore drilling units;
 (b)  foreign ships to which the Convention apply while they are in sri Lanka waters; and
	 (c)		 port	facilities	serving	the	ships	specified	in	paragraphs	(a)	and	(b).
 (2) These regulations shall not apply to -
  (a) warships and troop ships; 
  (b) cargo ships of less than 500 gross tonnage;
  (c) ships not propelled by mechanical means;
  (d) wooden ships of primitive build; 
  (e) pleasure yachts not engaged in trade;
	 	 (f)	 fishing	vessels;	and
  (g) government operated ships used for non-commercial purposes.
3. (1) a ship which is not normally engaged on international voyages but which, in exceptional circumstances, is 
required to undertake a single international voyage may be exempted by the director-General of Merchant shipping (in these 
regulations referred to as the “director-General”) from any of the requirements of these regulations provided that it complies 
with safety requirement which is adequate in the opinion of the director-General for the voyage which is to be undertaken 
by the ship.
(2) an exemption granted under this regulation shall be only valid, if –
 (a) it is in writing;
		 (b)	 it	specifies	the	date	on	which	it	takes	effect;	and	
  (c) the case of an exemption, specify the terms (if any) on which it is given.
(3) The director-General may, on giving reasonable notice, alter or cancel any exemption granted under this 
regulation.
PaRT II
ship secuRity
4. (1) For the purposes of Part II of these regulations and in accordance with the provisions of Chapter XI-2 of the 
Convention and the IsPs Code, the director-General shall be vested with the enforcement of ship security on sri Lanka ships 
and foreign ships to which these regulations apply.
(2) under the provisions of Chapter XI-2 of the Convention and Part a of the IsPs Code, the director-General 
is responsible for -
 (a) setting the applicable security level for ships;
 (b) approving the ship security Plan and relevant amendments to a previously approved plan;
 (c) verifying the compliance of ships with the provisions of Chapter XI-2 of the Convention and Part 
A	of	the	ISPS	Code	and	issuing	to	ships	the	International	Ship	Security	Certificate;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.02.2023
3a
(d) exercising control and compliance measures in accordance with Regulation 9 of Chapter XI-2 of 
the Convention;
(e)  testing approved ship security plans; and
(f)  communicating information to the Organization in accordance with the Regulation 13 of Chapter 
XI-2 of the Convention and to the shipping and port industries.
(3) The director-General shall set security levels as prescribed in Part a of the IsPs Code and ensure the provision 
of	security-level	information	to	ships	entitled	to	fly	the	flag	of	Sri	Lanka.	However,	when	changes	in	security	level	occur,	
security level information shall be updated as the circumstance dictates.
(4) In pursuance to sub-regulation (3), following factors shall be considered in setting the appropriate security 
level include -
(a) the degree that the threat information is credible; 
(b) the degree that the threat information is corroborated;
(c)	 the	degree	that	the	threat	information	is	specific	or	imminent;	and
(d) the potential consequences of such a security incident.
5. (1) a company of a sri Lanka ship shall comply with the relevant requirements of Chapter XI-2 of the Convention 
and Part a of the IsPs Code, taking into account the guidance given in Part B of the IsPs Code.
(2) a ship shall comply with the relevant requirements of the Chapter XI-2 of the Convention and of Part a of 
the	ISPS	Code,	taking	into	account	the	guidance	given	in	Part	B	of	the	ISPS	Code,	and	such	compliance	shall	be	verified	and	
certified	as	provided	for	in	Part	A	of	the	ISPS	Code.
(3)  a ship shall prior to entering a port or whilst in a port within sri Lanka comply with the requirements for 
the security level set by the Government of sri Lanka, if such security level is higher than the security level set by the state 
whose	flag	the	ship	flying.	
(4)a sri Lanka ship shall prior to entering a port or whilst in a port within a contracting state comply with the 
requirements for the security level set by the contracting Government, if such security level is higher than the security level 
set by the director General.
(5) The master of a ship shall respond without undue delay to any change to a higher security level. 
 (6) Where a ship is not in compliance with the requirements of Chapter XI-2 of the Convention or Part a of the 
IsPs Code or cannot comply with the requirements of the security level set by the Government of sri Lanka or by another 
contracting Government and applicable to that ship, then the master of the ship shall notify the director-General or the 
designated authority of that Government prior to conducting any ship to port interface or prior to entry into port, whichever 
occurs earlier.
6. a company of a ship shall ensure that the master of that ship has available on board, at all times, information 
through	which	officers	duly	authorized	by	the	Government	of	Sri	Lanka	may	establish	-
(1)  the person responsible for appointing the members of the crew or other persons currently employed 
or engaged on board the ship in any capacity on the business of that ship;
(2)  the person responsible for deciding the employment of the ship; and
(3)  in cases where the ship is employed under the terms of a charter party, the parties to such charter 
party.
7. (1) The director-General may authorize recognized security organizations to undertake certain security related 
activities as prescribed in Chapter XI-2 of the Convention and Part a of the IsPs Code, including;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.02.2023
4a
(a) approval of ship security plans, or amendments thereto, on behalf of the director-General; and
(b)	 verification	and	certification	of	compliance	of	Sri	Lanka	ships	with	the	requirements	of	Chapter	
XI-2 of the Convention and Part a of the IsPs Code on behalf of the director-General.
(2) When authorizing a recognized security organization, the director-General shall give consideration to the 
competency of such an organization. a recognized security organization shall be able to demonstrate -
(a)  the expertise in relevant aspects of security;
(b)  appropriate knowledge of ship and port operations, including knowledge of ship design and 
construction, if providing services in respect of ships and port design and construction and in 
respect of port facilities;
(c)  capability to assess the likely security risks that could occur during ship and port facility operations 
including the ship or port interface and how to minimize such risks;
(d)  ability to maintain and improve the expertise of their personnel;
(e)  ability to monitor the continuing trustworthiness of their personnel;
(f)  ability to maintain appropriate measures to avoid unauthorized disclosure of, or access to, security 
sensitive material;
(g) knowledge of the requirements of Chapter XI-2 of the Convention and Part a of the IsPs Code 
and relevant national and international legislation and security requirements;
(h)  knowledge of current security threats and patterns;
(i)  knowledge on recognition and detection of weapons, dangerous substances and devices;
(j)  knowledge on recognition, on a non-discriminatory basis, of characteristics and behavioural patterns 
of persons who are likely to threaten security;
(k)  knowledge on techniques used to circumvent security measures; and
(l)  knowledge of security and surveillance equipment and systems and their operational limitations.
(3)	When	delegating	specific	duties	to	a	recognized	security	organization,	the	Director-General	shall	ensure	that	
the recognized security organization has the competencies needed to undertake the task.
(4) a recognized security organization may also advise or provide assistance to companies on security matters, 
including ship security assessments and ship security plans which shall include completion of a ship security assessment or plan.
(5)	The	recognized	organizations	referred	to	in	Merchant	Shipping	(Surveys	and	Certificates)	Regulations,	No.	1	of	
2022 published in the Gazette No. 2261/49 of January 6, 2022 may be appointed as recognized security organizations referred 
in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation, provided such organisation meets the requirements of sub-regulations (2) and (3).
8. The director-General shall ensure that appropriate measures are in place to avoid unauthorized disclosure of, or 
access to, security sensitive material relating to ship security assessments and ship security Plans of ships that are entitled 
to	fly	the	Sri	Lanka	Flag.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.02.2023
5a
9. (1) The director-General shall determine when a declaration of security is required by assessing the risk the 
ship to port interface or ship-to-ship activity poses to persons, property or the environment.
(2) The declaration of security referred to in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation shall address the security 
requirements that could be shared between a port facility and a ship (or between ships) and shall state the responsibility for each.
(3) a ship may request completion of a declaration of security when -
(a) the ship is operating at a higher security level than the port facility or another ship it is interfacing 
with;
(b) there is an agreement on a declaration of security between governments covering certain international 
voyages	or	specific	ships	on	those	voyages;
(c) there has been a security threat or a security incident involving the ship or involving the port facility, 
as applicable;
(d) the ship is at a port which is not required to have and implement an approved port facility security 
plan; or
(e) the ship is conducting ship-to-ship activities with another ship not required to have and implement 
an approved ship security Plan.
(4) The declaration of security shall be completed by -
(a)	 the	master	or	the	ship	security	officer	on	behalf	of	the	ship	and,	if	appropriate;
(b)	 the	port	facility	security	officer	or,	by	any	other	body	responsible	for	shore-side	security,	on	behalf	
of the port facility.
(5)	A	Declaration	of	Security	shall	be	retained	on	board	a	ship	for	a	minimum	period	as	specified	in	regulation	18.
10.	(1)	A	ship	shall	be	fitted	with	a	ship	security	alert	system,	which	complies	with	the	requirements	of	Regulation	
6 of Chapter XI-2 of the Convention.
(2) The ship security alert system when activated shall initiate and transmit a ship-to-shore security alert to the 
director-General, which in these circumstances may include the company, identifying the ship, its location and indicating 
that security of the ship is under threat or it has been compromised.
(3) In addition to the requirement referred to in sub-regulation (2), the ship-to-shore security alert system, when 
activated,	shall	also	initiate	and	transmit	a	ship-to-shore	security	alert	to	the	other	parties	specified	in	the	relevant	implementation	
standards published by the director-General.
(4) The requirement for a ship security alert system referred to in sub-regulation (1) may be complied with by 
using	the	radio	installation	fitted	for	in	compliance	with	the	requirements	of	Chapter	IV	of	the	Convention,	provided	all	
requirements of this regulation are complied with.
(5)	When	the	Director-General	receives	notification	of	a	ship	security	alert	from	a	Sri	Lanka	ship,	the	Director-
General shall immediately notify the state in the vicinity of which that ship is presently operating.
(6)	When	the	Director-General	receives	notification	of	a	ship	security	alert	from	a	foreign	ship,	the	Director-
General	shall	immediately	notify	the	State	whose	flag	that	ship	is	flying	and,	if	appropriate	the	State	in	the	vicinity	of	which	
that ship is presently operating.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.02.2023
6a
11. (1) The master shall not be constrained by the company, the charterer or any other person from taking or executing 
any decision which, in his professional judgment, is necessary to maintain the safety and security of the ship. This includes 
denial	of	access	to	persons	(except	those	identified	as	duly	authorized	by	a	Contracting	Government),	or	their	effects	and	
refusal to load cargo, including containers or other closed cargo transport units.
(2)	If,	in	the	professional	judgment	of	the	master,	a	conflict	between	any	safety	and	security	requirements	applicable	
to the ship arises during its operations, the master shall give effect to those requirements that are necessary to maintain the 
safety of the ship. In such cases the master may implement temporary security measures and shall forthwith inform the 
director-General and, if appropriate, the Contracting Government in whose port the ship is operating or intends to enter.
(3) any such temporary security measures under sub-regulation (3) shall, to the highest possible degree, be 
commensurate with the prevailing security level.
12. (1) a ship shall carry on board a ship security plan approved by the director-General. The plan shall make 
provisions	for	the	three	security	levels	as	defined	in	Part	A	of	the	ISPS	Code.
(2) such plan shall address the provisions in Part a of the IsPs Code and shall be developed, taking into account 
the guidance given in Part B of the IsPs Code and shall be written in the english language.
(3) subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (5) of this regulation, a recognized security organization may 
prepare	the	ship	security	plan	for	a	specific	ship.
(4) The director-General may entrust the review and approval of ship security plans, or of amendments to a 
previously approved plan, to recognized security organizations.
(5) In such cases the recognized security organization undertaking the review and approval of a ship security plan, 
or	its	amendments,	for	a	specific	ship	shall	not	have	been	involved	in	either	the	preparation	of	the	ship	security	assessment	
under regulation 13 or of the ship security plan or of the amendments, under review.
(6) The submission of a ship security plan or of amendments to a previously approved plan, for approval shall be 
accompanied by the security assessment on the basis of which the plan or the amendments, have been developed.
(7)	Personnel	conducting	internal	audits	of	the	security	activities	specified	in	the	ship	security	plan	or	evaluating	
its implementation shall be independent of the activities being audited unless this is impracticable due to the size and the 
nature of the Company or of the ship.
(8) The director-General shall determine which changes to an approved ship security plan or to any security 
equipment	specified	in	an	approved	plan	shall	not	be	implemented,	unless	the	relevant	amendments	to	the	plan	are	approved	
by the director-General. any such changes shall be at least as effective as those measures prescribed in Chapter XI-2 of the 
Convention and Part a of the IsPs Code.
(9)	The	nature	of	the	changes	to	the	ship	security	plan	or	the	security	equipment	that	have	been	specifically	
approved by the director-General, pursuant to sub-regulation (8), shall be documented in a manner that clearly indicates 
such approval. This approval shall be available on board and shall be presented together with the International ship security 
Certificate	(or	the	Interim	International	Ship	Security	Certificate).	If	these	changes	are	temporary,	once	the	original	approved	
measures or equipment are reinstated, this documentation no longer needs to be retained by the ship.
(10) The ship security plan shall be kept in an electronic format. It shall be protected by procedures aimed at 
preventing its unauthorized deletion, destruction or amendment.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.02.2023
7a
(11) The plan shall be protected from unauthorized access or disclosure. 
(12)	Ship	security	plans	of	foreign	vessels	are	not	subject	to	inspection	by	officers	duly	authorized	by	the	Director-
General to carry out control and compliance measures in accordance with regulation 9 of Chapter XI-2 of the Convention, 
save	in	circumstances	specified	in	sub-regulation	(13).
(13)	If	the	officers	duly	authorized	by	the	Director-General	have	clear	grounds	to	believe	that	the	ship	is	not	in	
compliance with the requirements of Chapter XI-2 of the Convention or Part a of IsPs Code, and the only means to verify 
or	rectify	the	non-compliance	is	to	review	the	relevant	requirements	of	the	ship	security	plan,	limited	access	to	the	specific	
sections of the plan relating to the non-compliance is exceptionally allowed, but only with the consent of the Contracting 
Government of, or the master of, the ship concerned. Nevertheless, the provisions in the plan relating to section 9.4 subsections 
.2,	.4,	.5,	.7,	.15,	.17	and	.18	of	Part	A	of	the	ISPS	Code	are	considered	as	confidential	information,	and	cannot	be	subject	to	
inspection unless otherwise agreed by the Contracting Governments concerned.
13.	(1)	The	company	security	officer	shall	ensure	that	the	ship	security	assessment	is	carried	out	by	persons	with	
appropriate skills to evaluate the security of a ship, in accordance with Part a of the IsPs Code, taking into account the 
guidance given in Part B of the IsPs Code.
(2) subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (5) of regulation 12, a recognized security organization may carry 
out	the	ship	security	assessment	of	a	specific	ship.
(3) The ship security assessment shall include an on-scene security survey and at least the elements prescribed 
in Part a of the IsPs Code.
(4) The ship security assessment shall be documented, reviewed, accepted and retained by the Company.
14.	(1)	A	ship	to	which	these	regulations	apply	shall	be	subject	to	the	verifications	as	specified	in	Part	A	of	the	ISPS	
Code.
(2)	The	verifications	of	ships	shall	be	carried	out	by	the	Director-General.	The	Director-General	may,	however,	
entrust	the	verifications	to	a	recognized	security	organization	referred	to	in	regulation	7.
(3)	The	security	system	and	any	associated	security	equipment	of	the	ship	after	verification	shall	be	maintained	
to conform with the provisions of these regulations, Part a of the IsPs Code and the approved ship security plan. after any 
verification	under	sub-regulation	(1)	has	been	completed,	no	changes	shall	be	made	in	the	security	system	and	in	any	associated	
security equipment or the approved ship security plan without the sanction of the director-General
15.	(1)	An	International	Ship	Security	Certificate	shall	be	issued	to	a	ship	to	which	these	regulations	apply	after	the	
initial	or	renewal	verifications	in	accordance	with	the	provisions	of	the	Part	A	of	the	ISPS	Code.
(2)	Such	certificate	shall	be	issued	or	endorsed	either	by	the	Director-General	or	by	a	recognized	security	
organization.
(3)	(a)	An	International	Ship	Security	Certificate	referred	to	in	sub-regulation	(1)	shall	be	issued	for	a	period	
which	shall	not	exceed	five	years	from	the	date	of	issue.
(b)	When	the	renewal	verification	is	completed	within	three	months	before	the	expiry	date	of	the	existing	
certificate,	the	new	certificate	shall	be	valid	from	the	date	of	completion	of	the	renewal	verification	to	a	date	not	exceeding	
five	years	from	the	date	of	expiry	of	the	existing	certificate.
(c)	When	the	renewal	verification	is	completed	after	the	expiry	date	of	the	existing	certificate,	the	new	certificate	
shall	be	valid	from	the	date	of	completion	of	the	renewal	verification	to	a	date	not	exceeding	five	years	from	the	date	of	
expiry	of	the	existing	certificate.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.02.2023
8a
(d)	When	the	renewal	verification	is	completed	more	than	three	months	before	the	expiry	date	of	the	existing	
certificate,	the	new	certificate	shall	be	valid	from	the	date	of	completion	of	the	renewal	verification	to	a	date	not	exceeding	
five	years	from	the	date	of	completion	of	the	renewal	verification.
(e)	If	a	certificate	is	issued	for	a	period	of	less	than	five	years,	the	Director-General	may	extend	the	validity	
of	the	certificate	beyond	the	expiry	date	to	the	maximum	period	specified	in	paragraph	(a),	provided	that	the	verifications	
referred	to	in	regulation	14(1)	applicable	when	a	certificate	is	issued	for	a	period	of	five	years	are	carried	out	as	appropriate.
(f)	If	a	renewal	verification	has	been	completed	and	a	new	certificate	cannot	be	issued	or	placed	on	board	the	ship	
before	the	expiry	date	of	the	existing	certificate,	the	Director-General	or	recognized	security	organization	acting	on	behalf	of	
the	Director-General	may	endorse	the	existing	certificate	and	such	a	certificate	shall	be	accepted	as	valid	for	a	further	period	
which	shall	not	exceed	five	months	from	the	expiry	date.
(g)	If	a	ship	at	the	time	when	a	certificate	expires	is	not	in	a	port	in	which	it	is	to	be	verified,	the	Director-General	
may	extend	the	period	of	validity	of	the	certificate	but	this	extension	shall	be	granted	only	for	the	purpose	of	allowing	the	ship	
to	complete	its	voyage	to	the	port	in	which	it	is	to	be	verified,	and	then	only	in	cases	where	it	appears	proper	and	reasonable	
to	do	so.	No	certificate	shall	be	extended	for	a	period	longer	than	three	months,	and	the	ship	to	which	an	extension	is	granted	
shall	not,	on	its	arrival	in	the	port	in	which	it	is	to	be	verified,	be	entitled	by	virtue	of	such	extension	to	leave	that	port	without	
having	a	new	certificate.	When	the	renewal	verification	is	completed,	the	new	certificate	shall	be	valid	to	a	date	not	exceeding	
five	years	from	the	expiry	date	of	the	existing	certificate	before	the	extension	was	granted.
(h)	A	certificate	issued	to	a	ship	engaged	on	short	voyages	which	has	not	been	extended	under	the	foregoing	
provisions of this sub-regulation may be extended by the director-General for a period of grace of up to one month from 
the	date	of	expiry	stated	on	it.	When	the	renewal	verification	is	completed,	the	new	certificate	shall	be	valid	to	a	date	not	
exceeding	five	years	from	the	date	of	expiry	of	the	existing	certificate	before	the	extension	was	granted.
(i)	If	an	intermediate	verification	is	completed	before	the	period	specified	in	verification	section	of	Part	A	of	
the IsPs Code then:
(i)		 the	expiry	date	shown	on	the	certificate	shall	be	amended	by	endorsement	to	a	date	which	shall	not	
be	more	than	three	years	later	than	the	date	on	which	the	intermediate	verification	was	completed;
(ii)	 the	expiry	date	may	remain	unchanged	provided	one	or	more	additional	verifications	are	carried	
out	so	that	the	maximum	intervals	between	the	verifications	prescribed	by	Part	A	of	the	ISPS	Code	
are not exceeded.
(4)	A	certificate	issued	under	sub-regulation	(1)	shall	cease	to	be	valid	in	any	of	the	following	cases-
(a)	 if	the	relevant	verifications	are	not	completed	within	the	periods	specified	in	Part	A	of	the	ISPS	
Code;
(b)	 if	the	certificate	is	not	endorsed	in	accordance	with	Part	A	of	the	ISPS	Code,	if	applicable;
(c) when a Company assumes the responsibility for the operation of a ship not previously operated by 
that Company; and
(d)	 upon	transfer	of	the	ship	to	the	flag	of	another	State.
(5) In the case of -
(a)		 a	transfer	of	a	ship	to	the	flag	of	another	Contracting	Government,	the	Director-General	shall,	as	
soon as possible, transmit to the administration of that contracting Government copies of, or all 
information	relating	to,	the	International	Ship	Security	Certificate	carried	by	the	ship	before	the	
transfer	and	copies	of	available	verification	reports,	or

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.02.2023
9a
(b)  a Company that assumes responsibility for the operation of a ship not previously operated by that 
Company, the previous Company shall as soon as possible, transmit to the receiving Company 
copies	of	any	information	related	to	the	International	Ship	Security	Certificate	or	to	facilitate	the	
verifications	described	in	sub-regulation	(2)	of	regulation	16.
(6)	The	International	Ship	Security	Certificate	shall	be	drawn	up	in	the	form	corresponding	to	the	models	given	
in the appendix to the IsPs Code and it shall be in english language.
16.	(1)An	Interim	International	Ship	Security	Certificate	may	be	issued	by	the	Director-General	or	by	a	recognized	
security organization when -
(a)	 a	ship	is	without	a	certificate,	on	delivery	or	prior	to	its	entry	or	re-entry	into	service;
(b)	 transfer	of	a	ship	from	the	flag	of	a	Contracting	Government	to	the	flag	of	Sri	Lanka;
(c)	 transfer	of	a	ship	to	the	flag	of	Sri	Lanka	from	a	State	which	is	not	a	Contracting	Government;	or
(d) a company assumes the responsibility for the operation of a ship not previously operated by that 
Company;
until	the	International	Ship	Security	certificate	referred	to	in	regulation	15	is	issued.
(2)	An	Interim	International	Ship	Security	Certificate	referred	to	in	sub-regulation	(1)	of	this	regulation	shall	only	be	
issued	when	the	Director-General	or	recognized	security	organization,	has	verified	that	-
(a) the ship security assessment required by Part a of the IsPs Code has been completed;
(b) a copy of the ship security plan meeting the requirements of the provisions of Chapter XI-2 of the 
Convention and Part a of the IsPs Code is provided on board, has been submitted for review and 
approval, and is being implemented on the ship;
(c) the ship is provided with a ship security alert system meeting the requirements of the provisions 
of regulation 6 of Chapter XI-2 of the Convention, if required;
(d)	 the	company	security	officer	-
 (i) has ensured:
 (ia) the review of the ship security plan for compliance with Part a of the IsPs Code,
 (ib) that the plan has been submitted for approval, and
 (ic) that the plan is being implemented on the ship, and
 (ii) has established the necessary arrangements, including arrangements for drills, exercises 
and	internal	audits,	through	which	the	company	security	officer	is	satisfied	that	the	ship	
will	successfully	complete	the	required	verification	in	accordance	with	Part	A	of	the	ISPS	
Code within six months;
(e)	 arrangements	have	been	made	for	carrying	out	the	required	verifications;
(f)	 the	master,	the	ship's	security	officer	and	other	ship's	personnel	with	specific	security	duties	are	
familiar	with	their	duties	and	responsibilities	as	specified	in	Part	A	of	the	ISPS	Code;	and	with	
the relevant provisions of the ship security plan placed on board; and have been provided such 
information in the working language of the ship’s personnel or languages understood by them; and
	(g)	the	Ship	Security	Officer	meets	the	requirements	of	the	provisions	of	these	regulations.
(3)	An	Interim	International	Ship	Security	Certificate	shall	be	valid	for	6	months	from	the	date	of	issue,	or	until	the	
International	Ship	Security	Certificate	required	by	regulation	15	is	issued,	whichever	comes	first,	and	shall	not	be	extended.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.02.2023
10a
(4)	The	interim	International	Ship	Security	Certificate	shall	be	drawn	up	in	the	form	corresponding	to	the	models	
given in the appendix to the IsPs Code and it shall be in english language.
17. (1) The director-General may, at the request of a Government of a country to which the Convention applies, 
cause	the	ship	to	be	verified	and,	if	satisfied	that	the	provisions	of	ISPS	Code	are	complied	with,	shall	issue	or	authorize	
the	issue	of	an	International	Ship	Security	Certificate	or	an	Interim	International	Ship	Security	Certificate	to	the	ship	and,	
where	appropriate,	endorse	or	authorize	the	endorsement	of	that	certificate	on	the	ship,	in	accordance	with	the	ISPS	Code.	
Any	certificate	so	issued	shall	contain	a	statement	to	the	effect	that	it	has	been	issued	at	the	request	of	the	Government	of	the	
State	whose	flag	the	ship	is	or	will	be	entitled	to	fly	and	it	shall	have	the	same	force	and	receive	the	same	recognition	as	the	
certificate	issued	under	these	regulations.	A	copy	of	the	certificate	and	a	copy	of	the	verification	report	shall	be	transmitted	
as soon as possible to the requesting Government.
(2) The director-General may request the Government of a country to which the Convention applies, to cause 
a	Sri	Lanka	ship	to	be	verified	and,	if	satisfied	that	the	provisions	of	ISPS	Code	are	complied	with,	may	issue	or	authorize	
the	issue	of	an	International	Ship	Security	Certificate	or	an	Interim	International	Ship	Security	Certificate	to	the	ship	and,	
where	appropriate,	endorse	or	authorize	the	endorsement	of	that	certificate	on	the	ship,	in	accordance	with	the	ISPS	Code.	
Any	certificate	so	issued	shall	contain	a	statement	to	the	effect	that	it	has	been	issued	at	the	request	of	the	Government	of	
Sri	Lanka	and	it	shall	have	the	same	force	and	receive	the	same	recognition	as	a	certificate	issued	by	the	Director-General.
18.(1)	The	master	shall	maintain	records	of	the	activities	specified	in	the	ship	security	plan	and	Part	A	of	the	ISPS	
Code on board the ship for a minimum period of 12 months or the last ten calls at port facilities, whichever is greater.
(2) The records shall be -
(a) kept in english language;
(b) kept in an electronic format. In such a case, they shall be protected by procedures aimed at preventing 
their unauthorized deletion, destruction or amendment; and
(c) protected from unauthorized access or disclosure.
19.	(1)	A	company	shall	designate	a	company	security	officer	and	the	person	so	designated	may	act	as	the	company	
security	officer	for	one	or	more	ships	depending	on	the	number	or	types	of	ships	the	Company	operates	provided	it	is	clearly	
identified	for	which	ships	this	person	is	responsible.
(2) a Company may, depending on the number or types of ships they operate designate several persons as company 
security	officers	provided	it	is	clearly	identified	for	which	ships	each	person	is	responsible.
(3)	The	duties	and	responsibilities	of	the	company	security	officer	shall	be	as	specified	in	the	Part	A	of	the	ISPS	
Code.
20. (1)	A	company	shall	designate	a	ship	security	officer	on	each	of	its	ships.
(2)	The	duties	and	responsibilities	of	the	ship	security	officer	shall	be	as	specified	in	Part	A	of	the	ISPS	Code.
21.	(1)	The	company	security	officer	referred	to	in	regulation	19	and	appropriate	shore-based	personnel	shall	have	
knowledge,	have	received	training	and	have	been	appropriately	certified	in	accordance	with	the	Part	B	of	the	ISPS	Code	and	
the guidelines developed by the Organisation.
(2)	The	ship	security	officer	referred	in	regulation	20	shall	have	knowledge,	have	completed	training	and	shall	
hold	a	Certificate	of	Proficiency	in	accordance	with	the	Merchant	Shipping	(Standards	of	Training,	Certification	and	Watch	
Keeping for seafarers) Regulations, 2016 published in the Gazette No.1987/19, October 4, 2016.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.02.2023
11a
(3)	Shipboard	personnel	having	specific	security	duties	and	responsibilities	shall	understand	their	responsibilities	
for	ship	security	as	described	in	the	ship	security	plan	and	shall	have	sufficient	knowledge,	have	completed	training	and	shall	
hold	a	Certificate	of	Proficiency	in	accordance	with	the	Merchant	Shipping	(Standards	of	Training,	Certification	and	Watch	
Keeping for seafarers) Regulations, 2016 published in the Gazette No. 1987/19, October 4, 2016.
(4)	Shipboard	personnel	without	designated	security	duties	shall	have	completed	training	and	shall	hold	a	certificate	
of	Proficiency	for	Security	Awareness	in	accordance	with	the	Merchant	Shipping	(Standards	of	Training,	Certification	and	
Watch Keeping for seafarers) Regulations, 2016 published in the Gazette No. 1987/19, October 4, 2016.
22.(1) drills shall be carried out on board ships at appropriate intervals taking into account the ship type, ship 
personnel changes, port facilities to be visited and other relevant circumstances.
(2) drills referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be conducted at least once every three months. In addition, where 
more than 25% of the ship's personnel has been changed, at any one time, with personnel that has not previously participated 
in any drill on that ship within the last three months, a drill should be conducted within one week of the change.
(3) shipboard drills shall cover such scenarios as:-
(a)	 identification	and	search	of	unauthorized	visitors	on	board	the	ship;
(b) recognition of materials that may pose a security threat;
(c) methods to deter attackers from approaching the ship; 
(d) recognition of restricted areas; and 
(e) mustering for evacuation.
(4)	The	Company	Security	Officer	shall	ensure	the	effective	coordination	and	implementation	of	ship	security	
plans by participating in exercises at appropriate intervals.
(5)	Exercises	referred	in	sub-regulation	(4)	shall	include	participation	of	company	security	officers,	port	facility	
security	officers,	Director-General	as	well	as	ship	security	officers,	if	available	and	shall	be	carried	out	at	least	once	each	
calendar year with no more than eighteen months between the exercises.
(6) exercises referred in sub-regulation (4) shall test communications, coordination, resource availability, and 
response. exercises shall be: 
(a) full scale or live; 
(b) table top simulation or seminar; or
(c) combined with other exercises held such as search and rescue or emergency response exercises.
(7) Company participation in an exercise with another Contracting Government should be recognized by the 
director-General.
23.	(1)	The	Company	Security	Officer	is	encouraged	to	ensure	that	a	ship	security	plan	is	in	place	for	passage	through	
high	security	risk	areas,	and	that	this	is	exercised,	briefed	and	discussed	with	the	Master	and	the	Ship	Security	Officer.
(2) The provision of carefully planned and installed ship protection measures prior to transiting the high-risk area 
is very strongly recommended.
(3)	Ship	security	plans	should	include	specific	guidelines	on	the	use	of	weapons	in	the	vicinity	of	dangerous	
goods or hazardous substances. Firearms carried on board ship may have to be reported on arrival in port and may have to 
be surrendered, or held securely, for the duration of the port visit.
24. (1)	A	ship	is	subject	to	control	when	in	a	port	facility	in	Sri	Lanka	by	officers	duly	authorized	by	the	Director-
General, who may be the same as those carrying out functions of regulation 19 of the Merchant shipping (surveys and 
Certificates)	Regulations,	No.	1	of	2022	published	in	Gazette No. 2261/49 of January 6, 2022. such control shall be limited 

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.02.2023
12a
to	verifying	that	there	is	onboard	a	valid	International	Ship	Security	Certificate	or	a	valid	Interim	International	Ship	Security	
Certificate	issued	under	the	provisions	of	regulations	15	and	16	of	these	regulations,	which	if	valid	shall	be	accepted,	unless	
there are clear grounds for believing that the ship is not in compliance with the requirements of these regulations or Part a 
of the IsPs Code.
(2) Control and compliance measures shall be in accordance with the provisions of regulation 9 of the Chapter 
XI-2 of the Convention.
(3) every ship intending to enter a port facility of sri Lanka shall provide the security information described in 
regulation	9	of	Chapter	XI-2	of	the	Convention	on	the	request	of	the	officers	duly	authorized	by	the	Sri	Lanka	Government.	
The master may decline to provide such information on the understanding that failure to do so may result in denial of entry 
into port.
25.	The	Director-General	may	allow	a	particular	ship	or	a	group	of	ships	entitled	to	fly	the	Sri	Lankan	flag	to	implement	
other security measures equivalent to those prescribed in these regulations or in Part a of the IsPs Code, provided such 
security measures are at least as effective as those prescribed in these regulations or Part a of the IsPs Code. The director-
General who allows such security measures shall communicate to the Organization particulars thereof.
PaRT III
pORt fAcility secuRity
26. (1) For the purpose of this part and in accordance with Chapter XI-2 of the Convention and the IsPs Code with 
respect to the port facility security and ship to port interface within the jurisdiction of sri Lanka, the Commander of the Navy 
shall be the designated authority. The enforcement of the provisions of this part is vested with the designated authority.
(2) In pursuance of Chapter XI-2 of the Convention and Part a of the IsPs Code, the designated authority is 
responsible for -
(a) setting the applicable security level for port facilities;
(b) determining which of the port facilities located within the territory are required to designate a Port 
Facility	Security	Officer	who	will	be	responsible	for	the	preparation	of	the	Port	facility	security	
plan;
(c) ensuring completion and approval of the Port facility security assessment and of any subsequent 
amendments to a previously approved assessment;
(d) approving the Port facility security plan and any subsequent amendments to a previously approved 
plan; and
(e) testing approved plans.
(3) The designated authority shall set security levels and ensure the provision of security-level information to 
port facilities within sri Lanka, and to ships prior to entering a port or whilst in a port within sri Lanka. When changes in 
security level occur, security-level information shall be updated as the circumstance dictates.
(4) In pursuance of sub-regulation (3), the following factors shall be considered in setting the appropriate security 
level include :-
(a) the degree that the threat information is credible; 
(b) the degree that the threat information is corroborated;
(c)	 the	degree	that	the	threat	information	is	specific	or	imminent;	and
(d) the potential consequences of such a security incident.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.02.2023
13a
27. (1) The port facilities shall comply with the relevant requirements of Chapter XI-2 of the Convention and Part 
a of the IsPs Code, taking into account the guidance given in Part B of the IsPs Code. 
(2) With respect to a port facility within sri Lanka, the designated authority shall ensure -
(a) port facility security assessments are carried out, reviewed and approved in accordance with the 
provisions of Part a of the IsPs Code; and 
(b) port facility security plans are developed, reviewed, approved and implemented in accordance with 
the provisions of Part a of the IsPs Code. 
(3) The Competent authority shall designate and communicate the measures required to be addressed in a port 
facility security plan for the various security levels, including when the submission of a declaration of security will be required.
 
(4) a port facility is required to act upon the security levels set by the designated authority within whose territory 
it is located. security measures and procedures shall be applied at the port facility in such a manner as to cause a minimum 
of interference with, or delay to, passengers, ship, ship’s personnel and visitors, goods and services.
28. (1) The port facility security assessment shall be carried out by the designated authority. The designated 
Authority	may	authorise	a	recognized	security	organization	to	carry	out	the	port	facility	security	assessment	of	a	specific	
port facility located within sri Lanka.
(2) When the port facility security assessment has been carried out by a recognized security organization, the 
security assessment shall be reviewed and approved for compliance with Part a of the IsPs Code by the designated authority.
(3) The persons carrying out the assessment shall have appropriate skills to evaluate the security of the port facility 
in accordance with the Part a of the IsPs Code, taking into account the guidance given in Part B of this Code.
(4) The port facility security assessments shall periodically be reviewed and updated, taking account of changing 
threats or minor changes in the port facility and shall always be reviewed and updated when major changes to the port facility 
take place.
(5) The port facility security assessment shall include, at least, the following elements -
(a)	 identification	and	evaluation	of	important	assets	and	infrastructure	it	is	important	to	protect;
(b)	 identification	of	possible	threats	to	the	assets	and	infrastructure	and	the	likelihood	of	their	occurrence,	
in order to establish and prioritize security measures;
(c)	 identification,	selection	and	prioritization	of	counter	measures	and	procedural	changes	and	their	
level of effectiveness in reducing vulnerability; and
(d)	 identification	of	weaknesses,	including	human	factors	in	the	infrastructure,	policies	and	procedures.
(6) The designated authority may allow a port facility security assessment to cover more than one port facility if 
the operator, location, operation, equipment, and design of these port facilities are similar. The designated authority through 
the director-General, which allows such an arrangement shall communicate to the Organization particulars thereof.
(7) upon completion of the port facility security assessment, a report shall be prepared, consisting of a summary 
of how the assessment was conducted, a description of each vulnerability found during the assessment and a description of 
counter measures that could be used to address each vulnerability. The report shall be protected from unauthorized access 
or disclosure.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.02.2023
14a
29. (1) a port facility security plan shall be developed and maintained, on the basis of a port facility security 
assessment, for each port facility, adequate for the ship or port interface. The plan shall make provisions for the three security 
levels,	as	defined	in	Part	A	of	the	Code.
(2)  subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (3), a recognized security organization may prepare the port facility 
security	plan	of	a	specific	port	facility.
(3) The port facility security plan shall be approved by the designated authority and shall be in english Language.
(4) such a Plan shall be developed in accordance with the provisions of Part a of the IsPs Code taking into 
account the guidance given in Part B of the IsPs Code. 
(5)	The	personnel	conducting	internal	audits	of	the	security	activities	specified	in	the	plan	or	evaluating	its	
implementation shall be independent of the activities being audited unless this is impracticable due to the size and the nature 
of the port facility.
(6) The port facility security plan may be combined with, or be part of, the port security plan or any other port 
emergency plan or plans.
(7) The designated authority shall determine which changes to the port facility security plan shall not be 
implemented unless the relevant amendments to the plan are approved by them.
(8) The plan may be kept in an electronic format. In such a case, it shall be protected by procedures aimed at 
preventing its unauthorized deletion, destruction or amendment.
(9) The designated authority may allow a port facility security plan to cover more than one port facility if the 
operator, location, operation, equipment, and design of these port facilities are similar. The designated authority through the 
director-General, which allows such an alternative arrangement, shall communicate to the Organization particulars thereof.
30. The designated authority shall ensure that appropriate measures are in place to avoid unauthorized disclosure 
of, or access to, security sensitive material relating to ship security assessments, ship security plans, port facility security 
assessments and port facility security plans, and to individual assessments or plans.
31. (1)	A	port	facility	shall	appoint	a	port	facility	security	officer	and	the	person	so	appointed	may	act	as	the	port	
facility	security	officer	for	one	or	more	port	facilities.
(2)	In	addition	to	those	specified	elsewhere	in	Part	A	of	the	Code,	the	duties	and	responsibilities	of	the	port	facility	
security	officer	shall	include,	but	are	not	limited	to—
(a)  conduct an initial comprehensive security survey of the port facility, taking into account the relevant 
port facility security assessment;
(b)  ensure the development and maintenance of the port facility security plan;
(c)  implement and test the port facility security plan;
(d)  undertake regular security inspections of the port facility to ensure the continuation of appropriate 
security measures;
(e)	 recommend	and	incorporate,	as	appropriate,	modifications	to	the	port	facility	security	plan	in	order	
to	correct	deficiencies	and	to	update	the	plan	to	take	into	account	relevant	changes	to	the	port	
facility;

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.02.2023
15a
(f)  enhance security awareness and vigilance of the port facility personnel;
(g)  ensure adequate training has been provided to personnel responsible for the security of the port 
facility and all other port personnel;
(h)  report to the relevant authorities and maintain records of communication which threaten the security 
of the port facility;
(i)  coordinate implementation of the port facility security plan with the appropriate company and ship 
security	officers;
(j)		 maintain	effective	communication	on	security	matters	with	the	company	security	officer	and	the	
ship	security	officer	of	ships	using,	or	intending	to	use,	their	port	facility;
(k)  coordinate with security services, as appropriate;
(l)  ensure that standards for personnel responsible for the port facility are met;
(m)  ensure that security equipment is properly operated, tested, calibrated and maintained, if any; and
(n)		 in	exceptional	circumstances,	assist	ship	security	officers	in	confirming	the	identity	of	those	seeking	
to board the ship when requested to do so.
32.	(1)	A	port	facility	security	officer	shall	have	completed	security	training	as	specified	in	Part	A	of	the	ISPS	Code,	
taking	into	account	the	guidelines	developed	by	the	organisation,	and	the	relevant	IMO	Model	Course,	and	holds	an	affiliated	
training	certificate.
(2)	The	port	facility	personnel	having	specific	security	duties	shall	understand	their	duties	and	responsibilities	for	
port	facility	security,	as	described	in	the	port	facility	security	plan	and	shall	have	sufficient	knowledge	and	ability	to	perform	
their assigned duties, taking into account the guidance given in Part B of this Code.
(3) To ensure the effective implementation of the port facility security plan, a port facility shall carry out drills at 
appropriate intervals taking into account the types of operation of the port facility, port facility personnel changes, the type of 
ship the port facility is serving and other relevant circumstances, taking into account guidance given in Part B of this Code.
(4)	The	port	facility	security	officer	shall	ensure	the	effective	coordination	and	implementation	of	the	port	facility	
security plan by participating in exercises at appropriate intervals, taking into account the guidelines developed by the 
organisation.
33. (1) The designated authority shall —
(a) inspect any port facility in sri Lanka; and
(b) if the port facility is in compliance with these regulations and the IsPs Code, issue a statement of 
compliance	in	respect	of	that	port	facility	for	a	period	not	exceeding	five	years	from	the	date	it	is	
issued.
(2)	A	statement	of	compliance	referred	to	under	sub-regulation	(1)	is	subjected	to	annual	verification	arrangements	
established by the designated authority.
(3)	Where	it	is	determined	at	an	annual	verification	exercise	that	a	port	facility	does	not	comply	with	the	requirements	
of the IsPs Code that is relevant to the port facility; or any additional requirement imposed by the designated authority, the 
Designated	Authority	may	suspend	the	statement	of	compliance	until	the	deficiencies	or	non-conformities	have	been	rectified,	
or withdraw the statement of compliance.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.02.2023
16a
(4) The statement of compliance of a port facility shall be drawn up, in english, in the Form set out in the appendix 
of the IsPs Code and the original statement of compliance shall be kept available at the port facility.
pARt iV
geneRAl pROVisiOns
.
 34. The footnotes in Chapter XI-I of the Convention and the resolutions, circulars or documents referred to by such 
footnotes shall be deemed to be a part of these regulations.
35. The director-General may, with the concurrence of the Minister issue such implementing standards for the 
compliance with the minimum technical standards of the provisions of the Convention or Protocol 1988 as may be required 
for the implementation of the provisions of these regulations.
36. In these regulations -
“bulk	carrier”	means	a	bulk	carrier	as	defined	in	regulation	1.6	of	Chapter	IX	of	the	Convention;
“chemical	tanker”	means	a	chemical	tanker	as	defined	in	regulation	8.2	of	Chapter	VII	of	the	
Convention;
“gas	carrier”	means	a	gas	carrier	as	defined	in	regulation	11.2	of	Chapter	VII	of	the	Convention;
“high-speed	craft”	means	a	craft	as	defined	in	regulation	1.2	of	Chapter	X	of	the	Convention;
“mobile	offshore	drilling	unit”	means	a	mechanically	propelled	mobile	offshore	drilling	unit,	as	defined	
in regulation 1 of Chapter IX of the Convention, not on location;
“oil	tanker”	means	an	oil	tanker	as	defined	in	regulation	2.22	of	Chapter	II-1	of	the	Convention;
“company” means the owner of the ship or any other organization or person such as the manager, or 
the bareboat charterer, who has assumed the responsibility for operation of the ship 
from the owner of the ship and who, on assuming such responsibility has agreed 
to take over all the duties and responsibilities imposed by the International safety 
Management Code;
“ship or port interface” means the interactions that occur when a ship is directly and immediately 
affected by actions involving the movement of persons, goods or the provisions of 
port services to or from the ship;
“port facility” is a location, as determined by the Government of sri Lanka or by the designated 
authority, where the ship/port interface takes place. This includes areas such as 
anchorages, waiting berths and approaches from seaward, as appropriate;
“port	facility	security	officer”	means	the	person	designated	as	responsible	for	the	development,	
implementation, revision and maintenance of the port facility security plan and for 
liaison	with	the	ship	security	officers	and	company	security	officers;
“ship-to-ship activity” means any activity not related to a port facility that involves the transfer of 
goods or persons from one ship to another;

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.02.2023
17a
“designated	authority”	means	the	person	identified,	within	the	Sri	Lankan	Government,	as	responsible	
for ensuring the implementation of the provisions of this Chapter pertaining to port 
facility security and ship to port interface, from the point of view of the port facility;
“International ship and Port Facility security (IsPs) Code” means the International Code for the 
security of ships and of Port Facilities consisting of Part a (the provisions of 
which shall be treated as mandatory) and Part B (the provisions of which shall be 
treated as recommendatory), as adopted on 12 december 2002, by resolution 2 of 
the Conference of Contracting Governments to the International Convention for 
the safety of Life at sea, 1974 as may be amended by the Organization;
“security incident” means any suspicious act or circumstance threatening the security of a ship, 
including a mobile offshore drilling unit and a high-speed craft, or of a port facility 
or of any ship to port interface or any ship-to-ship activity;
“security	level”	means	the	qualification	of	the	degree	of	risk	that	a	security	incident	will	be	attempted	
or will occur;
“declaration of security” means an agreement reached between a ship and either a port facility or 
another ship with which it interfaces, specifying the security measures each will 
implement;
“recognized security organization” means an organization with appropriate expertise in security 
matters and with appropriate knowledge of ship and port operations authorized to 
carry	out	an	assessment,	or	a	verification,	or	an	approval	or	a	certification	activity,	
required by this Chapter or by Part a of the IsPs Code; 
“organisation” means International Maritime Organisation.
eOG 02 - 0240
pRinteD At the DepARtMent Of gOVeRnMent pRinting,  sRi lAnKA.