

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'23
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.03.2019
w;s úfYI
wxl 2115$54 - 2019 ud¾;= ui 23 jeks fikiqrdod - 2019'03'23
No. 2115/54 -  SATURDAY  MARCH  23,  2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  PG 4443— 20   (03/2019)
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
UV A   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Draft Statute No. ....... /2019 of Uva Provincial Tourism Development Bureau of Uva Provincial Council
TO obtain the views of the public publish the above mentioned Draft Statute, proposed to be implemented in Uva Provincial
Council.
Hereby inform that after 10 days of publishing this special gazette containing this notice, this draft will be
submitted to the Uva Provincial Council for the approval. If expect to submit any views in relation to the points included
in this statute, must inform me in writing to the following address within 10 days of this notice.
B
ALAGE SALIY A SUSMEDHA DE SILV A,
Uva Provincial Ministry of Sports, Youth Affairs, Tourism,
Transport, Cultural Affairs, Textiles and Small Industries,
Uva Provincial Council,
Badulla.
Ministry of Sports, Youth Affairs, Tourism,
Transport, Cultural Affairs, Textiles and Small Industries,
Uva Provincial Council,
Badulla,
14th March, 2019.


<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'23
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.03.2019
2A
Tourism Development Bureau Statute No. ........ of 2019 Uva Provincial Council
A Statute for the establishment of tourist development bureau of Uva Province, to develop, promote
and regulate tourism industry within the Uva Province and deem the ordinance for all the other matters
connected therewith or incidental thereto.
Be it enacted by the Provincial Council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
1. This statute may be cited as the statutre of tourism development bureau of Uva Province No. .... of
2019 of Uva Provincial Council and shall come into operation since the date obtained approval of
the Governor of Uva Province.
PART   I
Establishment of Tourist Development Bureau of Uva Province
2. (1) There shall be established a bureau known as tourism development bureau of Uva Province
(hereinafter referred as “Bureau”) to be achieved the objective mentioned in the Section 3
of this Statute.
The Bureau shall be a corporate by the name assigned to it by Sub-section (1), perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in such manner.
3. The objectives of the bureau shall be as follows :-
(1) Preparing policy and strategic plan consistent to the national level policy for development
of sustainable tourism industry within Uva Province and enforcing programs efficiently and
productively based on them.
(2) Within the participation of management accession working co-operatively with the varied
parties of tourism industry and related including local and foreign tourists, hotel owners,
tourism guides, local and foreign governments and private institutions.
(3) Deeming opportunities to the local and foreign tourists to enjoy the splendor of Uva simply
and safely where the tourist destinations facilities have been developed in the Uva Province
and places disseminated already among the tourists and conserving the popular natural and
cultural heritage in the Uva Province for next generation which attract tourists.
(4) Identification of new tourist destination within the Uva Province, preparing development
plan, and enforcing sustainable projects on a manner of elaborating the attractiveness of
Uva Province by deeming funds from provincial council, locally, foreign and other sources.
(5) Creating vocational development among direct and indirect employees and entrepreneurs
who associated with the tourism industry and ensuring their job guarantee.
(6) Enhancing the human capital of the province by providing vocational training and  vocational
guidance on the subjects of tourism and hospitality to the youths of the province.
(7) Acquainting new tourist market, preparing consecutive programs for propagation and
promotion of the Uva Province as a tourism destination by refuting the target market and
using process of contrived marketing.
Short title and
date shall come
into operation
Establishing a
bureau of tourism
in Uva Province
Objective of the
Bureau

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'23
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.03.2019
(8) Ensuring the sustainable tourism industry of the province by exchanging local and foreign
experiences, creating new comprehension relevant to the subject of tourism via the
coordination of local and foreign scholars and institutions.
4. The task and duties of the bureau shall be as follows  :-
(1) Registration shall be made for the tourist hotel and lodgings those currently function within
Uva Province those not entered to the tourist development Act, No. 38 of 2005 or regulation
therein, and registration and authorization shall be made for the tourist hotel and lodgings
those newly started.
(2) Regulating, monitoring the tourist hotel and other service providers for the quality
development of the Tourist Industry of Uva Province and issuing license by ensuring the
quality and make arrangements to prescribe fees and accumulate the said fees.
(3) Creation and distribution of publication, photographs, videos, maps or any which oblige to
make awareness about the popular and unpopular tourist attraction places within Uva Province,
also creation of web sites which hold the information of tourist attract places in the province
to be enhanced the image of the destination of Uva Provincial tourism, creating software
related tourist guidance or form other technical facilities.
(4) Tourist sector related human resources training shall be done on the aim of local and foreign
job markets with the collaboration of Sri Lanka tourism and hotel management institutions,
reputed universities and institution as such, also the training courses and training centers
also to be run.
(5) Recognition of new comprehension and noble guidance and manipulating them efficiently
for development tourist industry via exchange experience programs and organizing workshops,
survey and exploration for government officers and industrialists who those adhered to
develop tourist industry of Uva Province.
(6) Development of infrastructure facilities in tourist attract destination of Uva Province, and
development of tourist road access, tourist holiday resort, information centers, tourist tranquil
centers, fun sports facilities and establishment physical exercise centers, running them and
fee levied from them.
(7) Deem facilities for the tourist hotel and tourist shops which pay direct contribution to tourism
industry development, make awareness and empower upon new tendency and challenge to
the tourism industrialists those who engaged in the  tourism industry and organize training
programs and workshops.
(8) Deem funds from local and foreign sources to develop the tourist industry and persuade to
invest and achieve the target anticipated by manipulation of the bureau staff by the human
and physical resource via equal utilization.
(9) In accordance to the staff necessity of the bureau through recruiting employees, training and
capacity building, creating task regulation related bureau staff to build noble staff, and
performance appreciation and feedback.
(10) To enforce the objectives of the bureau, acquisition of movable and/or immovable assets,
endurance, leasing or renting or purchasing, mortgaging, exchanging, selling or otherwise
excluding, machineries, plants, instruments and importing materials and to enforce the
objectives of the bureau, instruments, financial aids, staff and acknowledging other aid and
issuing them to recognized parties.
Task and duty of
the bureau

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'23
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.03.2019
4A
PART   II
Board of Directors
5. (1) A board of directors should be formed to enforce the objective of the bureau and the board
should be consisted five bureaucrats with four nominated members.
(2) The appointed bureaucrats for board of directors should be consisted mentioned below.
(a) A senior officer of the ministry who appointed by the ministry of subject-in-charge of
Uva Provincial tourism.
(b) An officer nominated by the commissioner of local government or the secretary of
local government ministry.
(c) An officer of tourist hotel management institution of Uva Province.
(d) An officer tourist development authority.
(e) A lecturer of tourism and hotel management section who nominated by the vice
chancellor of Uva Wellassa University.
(3) The members nominated for the director board shall be consisted persons mentioned below.
(a) Two representatives of hotel owners association of Monaragala and Badulla district
who nominated by the subject in-charge minister.
(b) A representative of the tourist guide association shall be nominated by the subject in-
charge minister.
(c) A representative appointed by the minister subject in-charge that who hold specific
knowledge relevant to the tourism sector.
(4) A person hold proficiency and think appropriate to be participated in the meetings as monitors
by director board otherwise persons who have ability with knowledge to achieve the
objectives of the bureau may be invited.
(5) If any nominated member desert his post or otherwise removed before the prescribed period,
by the Secretary of the subject minister in-charge, if he is a bureaucrat or by the minister, if
he is a member nominated, every members shall bear his post for three years since day of
appointed.
(6) (1) The minister of the subject in-charge shall appoint a person among the members of the
director board as a chairman who has an adequate knowledge concern to the subject of
tourism and hotel management. The chairman should bear the post for three years.
(2) The chairman of the director shall be presided all the meetings of the board.
(7) The director board should meet minimum once in  three month.
(8) The incentive should pay in accordance to the attendance of the director board members as
per the authorization of the governor for amount and the manner decided by the minister of
the subject in-charge.
Composition of
the director board
Chairman of the
bureau

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'23
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.03.2019
6. (1) A secretary    of the ministry should appoint an apt qualified person that who has knowledge
of tourist industry as managing director of the bureau upon the approval of the provincial
governor, he shall be the executive of the bureau.
(2) With the approval of the board by management director and considered any event necessary
to be deemed by him imposed to him or delegated any task or duty, can be delegated to any
bureaucrat of the bureau, fulfilling and enforcing the task or duty by that bureaucrat subjected
to the instruction and governance of the management director.
(3) The management director should have the right to participate in all director board meetings
and speak therein though no right to vote in any meetings as such.
(4) The management Director should work to control the entire bureau including administation
of employees and bureaucrats in bureau subjected to the common instruction and governance
of the chairman and director board.
(5) The remuneration what should be paid to the management director may be decided by the
director board with the approval of provincial council.
(6) The term of office for the management direcctor of the bureau shall be three years and, may
be removed from the post with the concurrence of the secretary of the minister by the
minister of subject in-charge.
(7) In any occasions that management director has been unable to enforce or complete any task
or duty due to illness or being out of Sri Lanka or any other reason, other any senior officer
may be appointed to work for him within the period he is absent with the concurrence of the
director board by the minister.
(8) The management director shall be responsible for all the administration of the bureau, the
power, task and duty delegated to the director by the director board shall be enforced and
fulfilled, subjected to the other ordinance of the statute.
(a) Capacity building of the officers and employees who have been deployed in service by
the bureau.
(b) Upgrade the efficiency and productivity of the bureau to achieve the objective of the
bureau.
(c) Organizing necessary services to fulfill the goal of the bureau would be the role of the
management director.
7 (1) whilst recruiting employees for bureau, after-ward approval has been made by the management
service department upon the staff necessity ; employees should be recruited following the
prescribed recruiting procedurre.
(2) Whilst employees engage in duty within the bureau, should follow the establishment code,
financial regulations and the directives imposed time to time by the board of directors.
Managing
Director of the
bureau
Director may
delegate his
duties
Appointing staff
for bureau

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'23
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.03.2019
6A
PART   III
Finance
(8) A separate approved bank account should be maintained on the name of bureau.
(1) The below mentioned funds should be paid to the account of the bureau.
(a) All the funds allege time to time by the Uva Provincial Council for bureau use up.
(b) All the funds granted by the government
(c) All the funds receiving as grant, donation and gift.
(d) All other funds credited otherwise to the bureau’s account under this statute or any
other written law.
(e) Income meets by providing consultancy service to the external persons and
institutions to set service related tourist trade.
(f) Income meets via providing consultancy service to the local government institutions
whilst establishing prescribed place for the goal of tourist development.
(g) All the funds receiving other training programes related which are not carried out
by Sri Lanka tourism and hospitality management institutions and conducting short
term training program related to the hospitality.
(h) All the funds procuring by publishing matters related to (instruction books, hand
bills, recording clear vision and other related to) tourism  trade.
(i) Fund accumulating by training program which added value on behalf of small and
medium scale enterpreneurs those who engaged in creating souvenir or keep sake.
(j) All other funds procures to the bureau’s account under this statute or by other written
Act.
(2) While enforcing and accomplishing the task and duty upon the objective of the bureau,
required all funds to be recovered the expenditure borne by the bureau should be paid
from the fund.
9. The calender year should be the financial year of the bureau.
10. The bureau should be taken responsible to keep account books duly which are associated to the
income, and expenditure, assets & liabilities and all other related matters.
11. Auditing concern, referring to the Provincial Council Act 23(1) No. 42 of 1987 and Section
23(2), the annual auditing shall be done by a qualified auditor that who appointed by the auditing
general according to the ordinance of the constitution No. 154 constitution of accounts of the
provincial council tourism bureau.
Accounts of the
bureau
Finance

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'23
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.03.2019
PART   IV
General Ordinance
12. (1) In accordance to long term development plan, the management director should prepare
annual development plan each year for the next year on 30th September or before every
year and shall be submitted to the Minister for approval consequent to it.
(2) Every year a descriptive report shall be prepared regarding the previous year related affairs
by the management director each year and shall be submitted to the board of directors and
the minister.
(3) The report under Subsection (2) shall be submitted to the minister on 31st June every
year or in advance.
(4) That report should be submitted to the Uva Provincial Council within three months since
the day received by the minister.
13. The minister may be issued common or special ordinance to the board regarding the enforcement
and accomplishment the task and duties and power under this statue time to time, however
taking steps according to the regulation as such shall be the duty of the board.
14. All the members of the bureau and bureaucrats of the authority, employees and representatives
shall be considered as government servants in their tasks and according to the  meaning of the
penal cord.
15. This bureau shall be considered as a scheduled institution according to the bribe Act, shall be
comprehended in accordance to the ordinance of the Act.
16. Whichever activity supposed have been done authentically by a member of the bureau, officer
or employee under this statute or upon any instruction of the director board or against any
activities supposed have been done or done with good faith under this statute, no sue or to be
sued any civil or criminal case.
(2) If any decision made by a court that said activity had been done with good faith, if any
civil or criminal case filed against any person regarding any activity supposed done or to
be done by the bureau upon the regulation of the board under this statute, any expense
what had borne such person under Sub-section (1), should be paid by the account of the
bureau.
17. (1) Power procured by this statute to make prescription or regulation through matters which
may be necessary or concerned thereto.
(2) All the regulations whatsoever made by the minister should be published in the gazette,
on the day published accordingly or on the manner that instructions determined, should
be enforced since the next day.
(3) All the regulations whatsoever make by the minister and after publishing in the gazette,
immediately submitted to the provincial council for approval. If any regulation that was
not approved by the Provincial Council, since the day approved subject to the said
regulation, shall be considered as been finite, not harming to the previous  activity.
Bureau
bureaucrats and
employees
considered as
government
servants under
penal code
Bureau’s bribe
Act considered as
schedule
institution
Minister may
make regulations

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'23
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.03.2019
8A
(4) Under the subsection above (1) the regulations made by the minister subsequent seconded
in the provincial council and they should be executed as imposed through this statute.
18. If any ordinance violation in any regulation made by this statute or made under it or whoever
neglect to act in accordance, shall be guilty for the offence, when become guilty in presence of
the magistrate, not exceeding one year may double up, one way to be imprisoned or penalty not
exceeding rupees one lakh or subjected to both such as imprisonment and penalty.
19. In this statute, unless the context otherwise requires-
“Provincial Council” means the Uva Provincial Council
“Governor” means the governor of Uva Province
“Minister” means the minister in-charge for tourism in the Uva Provincial Council.
“Minister’s Secretary” means the Secretary of the Minister in-charge for tourism in the Uva
Provincial Council.
“Approved Bank” means approved government bank upon the recommendation of the minister
in-charge for tourism in the Uva Provincial Council.
20. In the event of an inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil of this statute, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
04 - 202
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
Guilty and penal
Interpretation
Sinhala text to
prevail in