

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2015
1203
1203
wxl 1"920 - 2015 cqks ui 19 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'06'19
No. 1,920 – FRIDAY , JUNE 19, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1206
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1209
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 10th July, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 26th June,
2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,919 of 12.06.2015 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2015
1204
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2015
1205
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2015
1206
Posts – Vacant
ATTORNEY   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
CALLING for applications for the Post of Watcher of the Primary
Level Un-skilled Category of the Attorney General's Department.
Applications are invited from applicants who have fulfilled
following qualifications for the vacant Posts of Watcher - Grade II
of Primary Level Un-skilled Category of the Quarters of State
Counsels of the Attorney General’s Department situated in Badulla,
Anuradhapura, Monaragala, Ampara, Nuwara-Eliya, Embilipitiya
and Kandy Districts. (Special Consideration will be drawn towards
the residents of above Districts).
Nature of the Post.– Permanent, Pensionable.
Salary Scale entitled for the Post. – The monthly salary scale
entitled to this post is Rs. 11,730 -10x120 - 10x130 - 10x145 -
12x160 - Rs. 17,600.
Qualifications :
1. Educational Qualifications.– Should have passed Six (06)
subjects with minimum two (02) Credit passes in not
more than two sittings at the G. C. E. (Ordinary Level)
Examination.
2. Professional Qualifications.– Professional Qualifications
obtained in the field will be considered as a special
qualifications.
3. Experience.– Experience, obtained in the field will be
considered as a special qualification.
4. Physical Qualifications.– Every applicant should be physically
and mentally fit to perform duties of the post and to serve at any
part of Sri Lanka.
5. Other Qualifications :
(i) Applicants should be Sri Lankan citizens,
(ii) Should be of exemplary character,
(iii) Should have fulfilled all required qualifications for the
recruitment of Post in every aspect by the date stated
in the notice of calling for applications.
6. Age.– Should not be below 18 years and not more than 45
years of age.
Method of Recruitment.– Recruitments will be made on the basis
of merit of a structured interview depending on the number of
vacancies.
Applications prepared according to the specimen application
herewith, should be sent under registered cover to reach Attorney
General, Attorney General’s Department, Colombo 12 on or before
17.07.2015 “Application for the Post of Watcher” should be indicated
on top left hand corner of the envelope.
Y . J. W. W
IJAYA TILAKE,
Attorney General.
Application for the Post of Watcher of the Primary
Level Un-skilled Category of the Attorney
General’s Department
01. Full name of the applicant :–––––––––––.
02. Name with initials :–––––––––––.
03. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
04. Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
05. Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
06. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
07. Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :–––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
G. C. E. (O/L) :
Year :–––––––––––,  Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Pass
1. ........................... ..................
2. ........................... ..................
3. ........................... ..................
4. ........................... ..................
5. ........................... ..................
6. ........................... ..................
7. ........................... ..................
8. ........................... ..................
9. ........................... ..................
10. ........................... ..................
G. C. E. (A/L) :
Year :–––––––––––,  Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Pass
1. ........................... ..................
2. ........................... ..................
3. ........................... ..................
4. ........................... ..................
09. Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––.
(Attach photocopies of relevant certificates)
10. Service Experience :–––––––––––.
(Attach photocopies of relevant certificates)

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2015
1207
I do hereby certify that the aforesaid particulars are ture and
correct.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
06–428
––––––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  REGISTRAR  OF  COMPANIES
Recruitment to the Management Assistant Non-Technical
Section 2 Post (Company Inspector) in the Department of
Registrar of Companies under the Ministry of Industry
and Commerce
APPLICATIONS are invited from persons who have following
qualifications mentioned under No. 2, for full fill 03 (three) vacancy
in Management Assistant Non-Technical Section 2 post (Company
Inspector) in the Department of Registrar of Companies.
1. Recruitment Procedure.– Applicants, who have highest skill
on the results of structured interview, out of the applicants who
full filled the qualifications, mentioned in the notification, will be
recruited by the Registrar General of Companies.
2. Qualifications :
2.1 Educational Qualifications :
(i) Have obtained G. C. E. (O/L) Examination with six
credits at one sitting including Mathematics and
Language (Sinhala/Tamil/English) ;
and
(ii) Have obtained at least one subject excluding General
Test at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination.
Important.– Experience in relation to the post, is
considered as special qualification.
2.2 Physical Fitness.– Every candidate shall have sufficient
physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri
Lanka or Abroad and discharge the duties of the post.
2.3 Other :
(i) Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(ii) Must have excellent moral character,
(iii) All qualifications, needed to recruit to this post,
should have been fulfilled as at the closing date of
applications.
3. Conditions of employment and service conditions  :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Should
contribute to the Widows/Widowers and Orphans
Pension Scheme.
(ii) Appoint ment will be subjected to a probation period of
three (03) years. As mentioned in the scheme of
recruitment, 1st Efficiency Bar Examination should be
fulfilled within 03 years from the appointment to
Management Assistant Non-Technical Section 2 post
(Company Inspector).
(iii) In terms of Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014
and circulars, incidental thereto, proficiency in other
official language, in excess to the language, recruited to
the service, must be obtained, within 05 years from the
appointment and the officers who recruited by the
language other than official language should obtain
prescribed official language proficiency within the period
of probation.
(iv) This appointment is subjected to procedural rules of
Public Service Commissions, the Establishment Code of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial
Regulations and Departmental other orders.
4. Age Limit.– Should not be less than 18 years and not more
than 30 years of age on the closing date of applications.
5. Salary Scale.– Salary Scale of Rs. 13,120 -10x145 - 11x170 -
10x240 - 10x320 - Rs. 22,040 is entitle for this post according to
the MN-1-2006A of Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006.
6. Structured Interview :
(i) Structured interview will be conducted by the Interview
Board appointed by the Registrar General of Companies.
(ii) Following marking scheme will be based for the structured
interview :
Scoring Areas Maximum
Marks
1. Additional Educational Qualifications 45
2. Experience by Post (Court experience, 30
Persecution, Inquiries, General Knowledge)
3. Computer Literacy 10
4. English Language 10
5. Skills in the interview 05
100
Language of the interview should be mentioned in the application
by the applicant.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2015
1208
7. Method of Application :
(i) Application should comply with the specimen
application and if not which will be rejected without
notice. Applicant should prepare their application, in
both sides of A4 size paper with No. 01 to 05 appearing
in 1st page and rest in next pages.
(ii) Applications should prepare in same language which
will use as medium in the interview.
(iii) Applications should be sent under registered cover to
reach the Registrar General of Companies, Department
of Registrar of Companies, No. 400, D. R. Wijewardena
Mawatha, Colombo 10 on or before 19.07.2015.
Applications, received after that date will be rejected.
The envelope enclosing the application should be marked
application for the “Post of Company Inspector in the
Department of Registrar of Companies” on the top left
hand corner.
(iv) Signature of candidate should be attested by a principal
of  a  Government  School/a  Justice  of  Peace/
Commissioner of Oaths/Attorney-at-Law/Notary Public,
Commissioned Officer in the Armed Force or an officer
holding a permanent post in the Government with annual
consolidated salary of Rs. 2,75,220.
(v) Officers, who are already in Public or Provincial Public
Service should submit applications through their Head
of the Department.
(vi) Applications, without conformity with the specimen
application form, will be rejected. Inquiries about
applications lost or delayed will not be accepted. A
photocopy of the application is keeping with you will
be useful.
(viii) Competent applicants will be called for interview by the
Registrar General of Companies. Even though applicant
received the admission for interview, it is not considered
that the applicant is fulfilled the erquired qualifications
in the Gazette.
8. Identity of the candidate .– Following identity cards will be
accepted to certify the identity of his/he, in the interview :
(i) Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
Registration Persons/a valid Passport,
(ii) Education Certificates,
(iii) Birth Certificate.
Note :
(i) Experience in relating to the post, education and other
qualifications should be certified by the acceptable
certificates.
(ii) Do not attach any documents or copy of such to the
application.
(iii) Applications not be considered if candidates not be able
to produce the certificates once request.
11. Furnishing false information. – Your candidature will be
repealed, if any information mentioned in the application, being
detected as incorrect or false, before the recruitment. If such
information being detected after the recruitment, action will be
taken to demise from the service, subject to the procedure relevant
thereto.
12. If there is any matter not mentioned in this notice, the final
decision of such matter will be taken by the Public Service
Commission. Registrar General of Companies reserves the right to
fill or not to fill vacancies.
13. This appointment is subjected to procedural rules of Public
Service Commissions, the Establishment Code of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations, Circulars
and Departmental other orders and such amendments.
By order of the Secretary of Ministry of Industry and Commerce,
Registrar General of Companies,
Department of Registrar of Companies.
No. 400, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
19th June, 2015.
SPECIMEN APPLICATON
R
ECRUITMENT TO THE MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT NON-TECHNICAL
SECTION 2 POST (COMPANY INSPECTOR) IN THE DEPARTMENT
OF REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES UNDER THE MINISTRY OF
INDUSTRY AND COMMERCE
01. 1.1 Name with initials, initials at the end (in English block
letters) :–––––––––––.
1.2 Full Name (English block letters) :–––––––––––.
1.3 Full Name (Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
02. 2.1 Permanent Address (in Capital English) :–––––––––––.
2.2 Permanent Address (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
2.3 Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
03. 3.1 Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––,  Month :–––––––––,  Date :––––––––.
3.2 Age as at 19.07.2015 :
Years :––––––––,  Months :–––––––––,  Days :–––––––.
04. 4.1 Sex :
Male : 0
Female : 1
(Write the relevant number in the box)
4.2 Whether married/unmarried :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2015
1209
05. 5.1 Whether a Sri Lankan citizen :–––––––––––.
(by decent or registration )
5.2 Nationality :–––––––––––.
5.3 National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
06. 6.1 Educational Qualifications :
Subjects in G. C. E. (O/L) Index Year
Examination Number
Subjects in G . C. E. (A/L) Index Year
Examination Number
If Graduate :
(i) Degree :–––––––––––.
(ii) Year :–––––––––––.
6.2 Other qualification (Computer Literacy, etc.) :–––––––––.
6.3 Professional experience as at 19.07.2015 :
Years :––––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Days :––––––––.
6.4 English Proficiency :
Reading : V ery Good/Good/Moderate/Weak
Writing : V ery Good/Good/Moderate/Weak
Speaking : Very Good/Good/Moderate/Weak
07. Preferred language for interview :–––––––––––.
Sinhala/Tamil/English
08. Whether you have dismissed from a post or vocation post in
public service that you had been holding ? :–––––––––––.
09. If you are a Public Officer whether you have disciplinary
inveestigations ? :–––––––––––.
9.1 Whether you have been convicted in a court :–––––––.
9.2 If yes details :–––––––––––.
10. Certificate of applicant :
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I agree that if any particulars
contained therein are found to be false and incorrect, before the
interview I’m liable to disqualify and dismissal. I declare that I will
be subjected to the rules and regulation of the Gazette.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
11. Attestation of the signature of the candidate :
(Should comply with Section (7) iv of the Gazette)
I do hereby certify that ............................. is personally known to
me and that payment has been paid and receipt is attached and
placed his/her signature in my presence on ........................
–––––––––––––,
Signature of certifying officer.
Date :–––––––––––.
Full name of certifying officer :–––––––––––.
Occupation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(This is relevant to Public Officers only)
Attestation of the Head of the Department/Institution  :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................ who
is working in this Ministry/Department/Institution, is presently
working in the post of ....................... and his/her work and conduct
are satisfactory, no disciplinary action pending against him/her and
no decision has been taken to impose any such in future. He/She
can/cannot be released from the servcie once he/she is selected for.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department or
Authorized Officer.
(Seal)
Date :–––––––––––.
06–455
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  AGRICULTURE
Department of Export Agriculture
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF TECHNICAL OFFICER (CIVIL) OF
CLASS III OF SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE FOR DEPARTMENT OF EXPORT AGRICULTURE - 2015
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from citizens of Sri Lanka to fill the vacancies of Technical Officer (Civil) of Class III of Sri Lanka
Technological Service in the Department of Export Agriculture.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2015
1210
02. The candidates should not be less than 18 years or more
than 30 years of age.
03. The monthly salary scale for this post according to Public
Administration Circular No. 6/2006(A) MN-3- is Rs. 15,005 -
4x180 - 6x240 - 11x320 - 20x360 - Rs. 27,885.
04. This post is permanent and pensionable. Should contribute
to the Widow/Widower and Orphans Pension Scheme.
05. It is essential that candidates should have fulfilled all the
basic educational qualifications and professional qualifications
mentioned below, by the last date of closing applications :
Educational Qualifications .– Should have passed the G. C. E.
(O/L) examination in 06 subjects with credits for Sinhala/
Tamil /English, Science, Mathematics and any other subject
at one sitting ;
and
Should have passed the G. C. E. (A/L) examination in three
subjects of Science/Maths subject steams, including two
subjects from Combined Maths, Chemistry or Physics.
Professional Qualifications .– Should have obtained one of the
following Diploma certificates related to civil domain.
(i) National Technical Diploma offered by University of
Moratuwa or HARDY Industrial Institute, Ampara.
(ii) Diploma in Engineering offered by the National
Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority.
(iii) National Higher Diploma in Engineering offered by
the Ministry of Education and Higher Education.
(iv) T echnical Diploma offered by the Open University
of Sri Lanka.
(v) Successful completion of the first part of the
Engineering Examination conducted by Sri Lanka
Institute of Engineering.
(vi) Completion of National V ocational Qualification
(NVQ) level 6 relevant to the field of employment
concerned.
(vii) Any other technical qualifications recognized by the
Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission as
equivalent to the above mentioned technical
qualifications, following the opinions obtained by
consulting the Ministry of Higher Education and the
institutes issuing above mentioned technical certificates.
06. Mode of Applying :
(a) Application forms should be prepared using both sides
of an A4 size (21cm x 29cm) sheet including section 01
to 06 in the first page with accordance to the specimen
application form appended to this Gazette notification.
Applications should be filled by the candidate himself
in clear hand writing, in the medium of language that the
candidate is willing to sit for the Exam.
(b) The name of the examination mentioned in the heading
of the application form should be included in English in
addition to Sinhala in Sinhala applications and in addition
to Tamil in Tamil applications.
(c) Duly filled application forms should be forwarded under
registered cover to meet Director General, Department
of Export Agriculture, No. 1095, Kandy Road,
Peradeniya on or before 20.07.2015. The phrase "Open
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post of
Technical Officer (Civil) of Class III of Sri Lanka
Technological Service - 2015" should be clearly written
on the upper left-hand corner of the envelope containing
the application form.
(d) The original receipt consisting the machine seal, obtained
by paying Rs. 500 to be credited to the account number
7042612 of Bank of Ceylon, Peradeniya Branch at any
BOC branch of the island should be affixed in the relevant
space provided in the application form. Keeping a
photocopy of the receipt will be useful.
(e) Applications that are not in consistent with the specimen
application form included in this notification, or not
fully complete and received late will be rejected without
prior notice and the Department will not be responsible
for loss of applications in the post or any postal delays.
Keeping a photocopy of the application form would be
useful.
(f) The signature of the applicant should be attested by a
Principal of an government school or a Justice of Peace
or an Attorney-at-Law or a Staff Grade Officer in State
Service.
(g) The candidates who are already in State Service should
forward the application form through the Head of the
Department.
07. Examination Procedure :
(a) This examination will be held by the Department of
Technical Education and Training.
(b) Admissions will be issued by the Director General of
Technical Education and Training to the candidates who
have forwarded application forms. The candidate should
produce the attested admission to the Supervisor in the

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2015
1211
prescribed examination hall. Any candidate who fails to
produce the admission card will not be allowed to sit for
the examination.
(c) Transportation or any other expenses incurred by the
candidate in order to the present at the examination will
not be reimbursed.
(d) Identity.– The candidate should prove his/her identity to
the satisfactory of the supervisor on each subject he/she
sits for herein.
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the
Department of Registration of Persons ; or
(ii) Valid passport will be accepted.
The candidates who fail to produce documentation
to prove his/her identity will not be allowed to sit
for the examination.
(e) Syllabus :
Subject Subject Time Total Pass
No. (hrs.) Marks Mark
01 Intelligence Test 1 100 40%
02 Common Test 3 100 40%
(Technical and Subject
affiliated Test)
(i) Intelligence Test.– The exam consists of questions to
determine the candidates ability of logical reasoning
analytical thinking and decision making.
(ii) Common Test (Technical) Subject Affiliated Test :
* Knowledge on surveying and levelling.
* Knowledge on the application and standard of
building materials.
* Method and condition of application of
foundation, wall construction, timber roofing, iron
walls, concrete pillar beams and concrete pillars,
foundation layers, stairs.
* Construction of buildings and preparation of
estimations.
* Estimation of the amount of building materials
and worker labour required for relevant estimates
and constructions.
* Estimation of worker labour.
* Bending moment/shear force diagram.
* Knowledge on electricity, water and sewarage.
(f) The examination will be held in Sinhala, English and
Tamil mediums and the candidates who sit for the exam
should appear for all the subjects of the examination in
one medium.
08. Conditions of Employment :
(i) Selected candidates are obligated to work in any area of
the country.
(ii) The recruited officers will be subject to a probationary
service period of 03 years.
09. Mode of Recruitment .– The candidates who obtain 40% or
more marks in each paper at the examination will be called for an
interview based on the order of merit. Number of candidates to be
called for the interview will be equivalent to the existing vacancies.
Marks will not be given at the interview and the candidates who
have fulfilled the basic requirements will be recruited in the order of
the total marks obtained at the examination. The Director General
of Technical Education and Training will issue a personal result
sheet to all of the candidates who sat for the exam, including the
subject-wise marks and total marks obtained by each candidates,
after a result sheet including a list of qualified candidates in a number
equivalent to the existing vacancies is issued to the Director General
of Export Agriculture.
10. Issuing of admissions to sit for the examination will not be
considered as an acceptance that the candidate is qualified for the
post. The candidature will be cancelled if it will be revealed that the
candidate lacks necessary qualifications when the candidates are
called for an interview to check the qualfications mentioned in the
Gazette notification.
11. Any matter not mentioned here will be decided by the
appointing authority. Every candidate is obliged to follow the
examination rules and regulations mentioned in the Gazette
notification.
12. The Director General of Technical Education and Training
will permit all the candidates who have paid the relevant examination
fee and forwarded the applications on or before the closing date to
sit for the competitive examination on the presumption that only
those who have fulfilled the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette
notification have applied. The Director General of Technical
Education and Training reserves the right to make decisions on
conducting the examination and issuing results and his decision
shall be deemed final.
N. K. A. R
UPASINGHE,
Director General of Export Agriculture.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2015
1212
(For office use only)
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
Y%S ,xld ;dlaIK fiajfha wmkhk lDIsl¾u fomd¾;fïka;=fõ
III fY%aKsfha ld¾ñl ks,Odß ^isú,a& ;k;=r i|yd n|jd .ekSfï
újD; ;r. úNd.h - 2015
APPLICA TION FOR THE COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO
THE POST OF TECHNICAL OFFICER (CIVIL) OF CLASS III OF THE SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF EXPORT
AGRICULTURE - 2015
Medium applied :
Sinhala 2
Tamil 3
English 4
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
01. Name :
1.1 Name with initials :––––––––––––.
(In Capital English Letters) Eg. : SILVA, A. B.
1.2 Full Name :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
02. Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(In Capital English Letters)
2.1 Postal Address :––––––––––––.
(In Capital English Letters)
2.2 Contact number (If available) :
Mobile
Landline
03. Gender :
Female 1
Male 0
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
04. Marital Status :
Married 2
Unmarried 1
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
05. National Identity Card Number :
06. 6.1 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
6.2 Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years : Months : Days :
07. Educational Qualifications :
(a) G. C. E. (O/L) :
Year and Month :––––––––––––.
Index Number :––––––––––––.
Language Medium :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Pass Subject Grade Pass
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
(b) G. C. E. (A/L) :
Year and Month :––––––––––––.
Index Number :––––––––––––.
Language Medium :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Pass
1.
2.
3.
4.
(c) Professional Qualifications :
Name of the Diploma and Y ear Index
the Institute Number
09. ( a) Date of payment of
Examination fees
Bank Branch
Amount Paid
Affix the receipt issued by the bank here.
(Keeping a copy of the receipt will be useful)
10. Certificate of the Applicant :
I hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this
application is true and accurate. I am aware that if any information
furnished by me in this application is found to be false or inaccurate
before I am selected. I am liable for disqualification before selection
and for dismissal without compensation if such revelation is made
after the appointment.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2015
1213
Moreover, I accept to comply with the rules and regulations
laid down by the Director General of Technical Education and
Training.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
11. Attestation of the signature :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Mss .................................. is personally
known to me and he/she placed his/her signature, in my presence on
............................. and, the receipt obtained by paying the
prescribed examination fee is pasted here.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :––––––––––––.
Full Name of the Attester :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(Affirm by official stamp)
12. Certificate of the Head of the Institution (If the applicant is a
Government Employer) :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Mss .................................. is employed
at this Ministry/Department/Office and his/her service is
satisfactory, and has paid the prescribed examination fees, I also
certify that the particulars furnished above by him/her are true and
if he/she is selected for an appointment he/she can be released/
cannot be released from present post.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––––.
Full Name of the Attester :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(Official stamp)
06–504
––––––––––––––––––––
EXCISE  DEPARTMENT  OF  SRI  LANKA
Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to
the Posts of Transport Officer (Grade III) and
Technical Officer (Grade III)
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens for one (01)
Post of Transport Officer and one (01) Post of Technical Officer of
the Excise Department of Sri Lanka.
Applications prepared in 297mm x 210mm (A4) papers as per
the specimen from given in this notification should be sent to "The
Commissioner General of Excise, Department of Excise, No. 34,
W. A. D. Ramanayake Mawatha, Colombo 02" on or before
27.07.2015 by the registered post. "Application for the Post of
Transport Officer/Technical Officer" should be mentioned at the
top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
Applications should be completed and precise in all respects as
given in the notification and applications which are not so completed
and precise and which are not received as at the specified date will
be rejected without any notice. Complaints regarding the loss of
applications of related correspondence in the post will not be
entertained. The receipt of the applications will not be
acknowledged.
01. Particulars regarding the General Duties of the Post  :
1.1 Transport Officer.– Maintaining Department vehicles
in satisfactory level and other supervisory functions
assigned to the post.
1.2 Technical Officer. – Designing of work related to
constructions of the Department, preparation of
estimates, checking whether the said functions are
conducted as per the prescribed standards through
onsite inspection of works, designing of plans in that
regard, keeping notes and the supervisory functions
assigned to the post.
2. Salary Scale.– Rs. 15,005 - 4x180 -6x240 -11x320 - 20x360 -
Rs. 27,885 per month (MN-3-2006 - A as per P. A. C. 6/2006IV).
(The Efficiency Bar Examination is according to the service minute
of the Sri Lanka Technical Service).
3. Age Limit.– Applicants should be not less than 18 years and
not more than 30 years of age as at 27.07.2015.
4. Educational and Other Qualifications :
4.1 Transport Officer (Grade III) :
(a) The applicant should have passed three (03)
Science subjects in one sitting at the G . C. E.
(Advanced Level) Examination (Except common
general test) ;
and
The applicant should have passed six subjects
including credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil/English
Language, Science, Mathematics and another
subject at the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level)
Examination.
(b) Professional Qualifications :
(i) The applicants should have followed a course
for not less than 03 years on Motor Mechanical
3rd  Reading
T - 04 (KJ)
11 -  14

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2015
1214
Science or Automobile Engineering Science at
the Orugodawatta Training Centre of National
Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority
and should have obtained a certificate ;
or
(ii) The applicants should have followed a course
for not less than 03 years on Motor Mechanical
Science or Automobile Engineering Science at
German Technical College and should have
obtained a certificate ;
or
(iii) The applicants should have followed a course
for not less than 03 years on Motor Mechanical
Science or Automobile Engineering Science at a
recognized Institution of the Government and
should have successfully completed the course ;
and
(iv) The applicants should have obtained a valid
certificate of Proficiency issued by the
Commissioner of Motor Traffic on driving of all
types of Motor Cars and Lorries and should
have obtained a certificate from a recognized
institution to the effect that the applicant had
been in charge of a work shop of class 'A' where
motor vehicles are repaired ;
and
(v) The applicants should have obtained the abilities
of organizing and controlling of labourers and
maintenance of a vehicle park which comprised
of group of vehicles and the ability of controlling
laburers in a transport pool ;
and
(vi) The applicants should have the knoweldge on
repairing and maintaining petrol and diesel
engines with internal combustion.
4.2 Technical Officer (Grade III) :
(a) Educational Qualifications :
The applicants should have passed three (03)
science subjects with Pure Mathematics/Applied
Mathematics/Combined Mathematics and
Physics in one sitting at the G. C. E. (Advanced
Level) Examination (except Common General
Test) ;
and
The applicants should have passed six subjects
including credit passes for Language or Literacy,
Mathematics, Science and another subject at the
G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination.
(b) Professional Qualifications :
(i) National Diploma in Technology awarded
by the University or Moratuwa or Hardy
Institution, Ampara ;
or
(ii) National Diploma in Engineering Sciences
awarded by the National Apprentice and
Industrial Training Authority ;
or
(iii) National Higher Diploma in Engineering
awarded by the Ministry of Education and
Higher Education ;
or
(iv) Diploma in Technology awarded by the
Open University of Sri Lanka ;
or
(v) Successful completion of the Part I of the
Engineering Examination conducted by the
Institute of Engineering, Sri Lanka ;
or
(vi) Having completed the National Vocational
Qualifications (NVQ) Level - 6 in relation
to the Field of Employment ;
or
(vii) Having obtained the other qualifications
recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational
Education Commission similar in all respects
to Technical Qualifications mentioned above
subsequent to inquiring and obtaining ideas
from the Ministry of Higher Education and
Institutions which issue the Technical
Certificates mentioned above.
(c) Experience.– The experience gained in the relevant
field is considered as an additional qualification.
(d) Physical Qualification :
(i) The applicants should be physically and
mentally fit enough to serve in any part of
the country and to perform the duties of the
post.
(e) Other Qualifications :
(i) Applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka,
(ii) Applicants should have a good moral
character,
(iii) Applicants should have completed all the
qualifications in all respects by 27.07.2015.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2015
1215
5. The Method of Recruitment.– Recruitment will be made on the
results of a written competitive examination and a general interview.
A number similar to the number that is anticipated to be recruited
as per the merit order of the total marks obtained by the applicants,
who have passed the wirtten examination, will be called for the
itnerview and eligible persons will be selected thereafter.
Particulars regarding the Written Examination :
Intelligence Question Paper - 1 1/2 (100 marks)
Subject oriented Technical Examination - 03 hours (100
marks)
The applicants can sit this examination only ine one language
medium as their consent.
Syllabus :
Transport Officer (Grade III)  :
Intelligence Question Paper - It is expected to measure
the ability of understanding
and the intelligence through
the examination of the
conclusions and responses of
the applicants regarding the
questions submitted within
the Scientific, numerical and
figurative contexts.
Technical Question Paper - It is expected to examine the
knowledge about motor
Mechanical Science and the
rule on the road from this
question paper.
Technical Officer (Grade III) :
Intelligence Question Paper - It is comprised of questions
to examine the ability of
logical thinking and the logical
analytical status and the
ability of making decisions.
Technical Question Paper - C onstruction of buildings,
application of paints
classification of timber,
tempering of timber,
preparation of designs for
work as per the rough sketches
provided, preparation of bills
according to Bills of
Quantities and the knowledge
on the basic water supply and
drainage.
6. Examination fees .– Applicants should pay an amount of
Rs. 500 as the examination fees. The said amount should be paid to
any of the Bank of Ceylon Branches to be creidted to the Account
No. 0007041628 of the BOC Taprobane Branch in favour of
Commissioner General of Excise and the deposit slip should be
sent along with the application. The applicants are advised to keep
a photocopy of the bank receipt with them. The amount paid will
not be refunded.
7. Probation Period.– Selected applicants will be subjected to a
probation period of three years (03) if they get through the
departmental examinations that are prescribed for them, they will
be confirmed in the post at the end of the probationary period of
three years.
8. Conditions of the Employment :
(a) This post is permanent and pensionable.
(b) They shall be directed to serve in any part of the island.
9. Conditions of Service :
(a) Applicants qualified to be appointed should be abide by
the Official Language Law and rules and regulations that
are imposed by the Government from time to time.
(b) Sections 10-12 of the Chapter II of the Establishments
Code will be applicable.
(c) In addition to the general conditions mentioned in the
Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission,
Provisions and Conditions stipulated in the Sri Lanka
Technical Service Minute are also applicable.
L. K. G . G
UNAWARDENE,
Commissioner General of Excise,
Excise Department of Sri Lanka.
June, 2015.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF TRANSPORT OFFICER/TECHNICAL
OFFICER IN THE DEPARTMENT OF EXCISE
01. (i) Name in full (in mother language) :–––––––––––.
(ii) Name in full (in English) :–––––––––––.
(iii) Name with initials :–––––––––––.
02. (i) Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
(ii) Divisional Secretary's Division :–––––––––––.
(iii) Grama Niladhari's Division :–––––––––––.
(iv) Postal Address :–––––––––––.
(For sending the admissions)
(v) Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
03. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
Age as at 27.07.2015 :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :–––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2015
1216
04. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka (Indicated whether by descent
or by registration) :–––––––––––.
05. Nationality :–––––––––––.
06. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
07. Civil status :–––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
(i) Passes in the G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) :
Year :–––––––––––.
Subjects passed Grade
(Certified copy of the above certificate should be attached)
(ii) Passes in the G. C. E. (Advanced Level) :
Year :–––––––––––.
Subjects passed Grade
(Certified copy of the above certificate should be attached)
(iii) Professional Qualifications :
Name of the Period of the Course No. of Years of Institution
Course From – To the Course
(Certified copy of the above certificate should be attached)
(iv) Experience : Employments/Courses undergone after leaving
school :
Name of the employment Period Institution If employed
or the course From - To reason for
 leaving
(Certified copy of the above certificate should be attached)
09. Name of the Bank to which money is paid :–––––––––––.
Receipt No. :–––––––––––.
Receipt should be firmly affixed here.
10. I certify that particulars mentioned in this application by me
are true and correct. I know that I will be disqualified if any
particulars indicated here are detected false or incorrect before
the selection and I will be subjected to dismissal from the
service without any compensation if detected after being
appointed to the post.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
06–641
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.