

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I ) – GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2237$17 – 2021 cQ,s 20 jeks wÕyrejdod – 2021'07'20
2237/17 – TUESDAY, JULY 20, 2021
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G 34691 – 32 (2021/07)
My No.: CI/1849.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131   
     
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Hayleys Fabrics PLC, No. 400, Deans Road, Colombo 10 of the one part 
and the Sri Lanka Nidahas Sewaka Sangamaya, No. 341/21, 4th Floor, Sarana Mawatha, Rajagiriya of the other part on 27th 
February 2020 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the  Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative 
Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
 B. K. Pඋൺൻൺඍඁ Cඁൺඇൽඋൺ඄ൾൾඋඍඁං,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat, 
Colombo 05.
23rd day of June, 2021.
Collective Agreement No. 21 of  2020
This Collective Agreement made this Twenty Seventh day of February Two Thousand and Twenty to take eﬀ ect from the First 
day of April Two Thousand and Twenty pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Act, between.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 2A
Hayleys Fabric PLC (PQ37), having its registered oﬃ  ce at 400 Deans Road, Colombo 10 (hereinafter referred to as the 
"Employer") of the One Part
and
Sri Lanka Nidahas Sewaka Sangamaya a registered Trade Union having its oﬃ  ce at 341/21, 4th Floor, Sarana Mawatha, Rajagiriya 
(hereinafter referred to as the 'Union') of the Second part 
Witnesseth and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows:
Title : This Agreement shall be known and referred to as the Hayleys Fabrics PLC Clerical, Supervisory and allied staﬀ  collective 
agreement of 2020.
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
This Collective Agreement entered into between Hayleys Fabric PLC (PQ37) a duly incorporated company having its registered 
oﬃ  ce at No. 400 Deans Road, Colombo 10, Sri Lanka and hereinafter referred to as "the Employer" and the Sri Lanka Nidahas 
Sewaka Sangamaya (SLNSS), a duly registerd Trade Union having its registered oﬃ  ce ar No. 341/21, 4th Floor, Sarana Mawatha, 
Rajagiriya hereinafter referred to as "the Union".
Whereas the Union made certain proposals to the Employer for the revision of terms and conditions of employment of their 
members employed by the Employer and the parties have after negotiations arrived at the following Agreement:
   1 .  Parties Covered and Bound – The terms of this Collective Agreement shall cover and bind the Employer, the Union 
and Members of the Union who are employed by the Employer in conﬁ rmed permanent employment in the Clerical Supervisory 
and Allied grades.
   2 .  Duration – The provisions of this  Agreement shall take eﬀ ect from 1st April 2020 and shall, unless otherwise 
terminated by either party giving one month's written notice to the other, continue to remain in force, provided however, that 
neither party shall give such notice prior to 1st March 2023. and the Agreement shall not stand terminated prior to the 31st day 
of March 2023.
   3. Salaries – The employer agrees to revise the salaries of the employees covered and bound by this Agreement on the 
following  basis:
 a) With eﬀ  ect from 1st April 2020 the monthly salaries of employees will be revised and a sum of Rs. 2,200/- will be 
added to the salary paid to such employees as at 31st March 2020.
 b) With eﬀ  ect from 1st April 2021 the monthly salaries of employees will be revised and a sum of Rs. 2,200/- will be 
added to the salary paid to such employees as at 31st March 2021.
 c) With eﬀ  ect from 1st April 2022 the monthly salaries of employees will be revised and a sum of Rs. 2,200/- will be 
added to the salary paid to such employees as at 31st March 2022.
   4. Shifts and Shift Allowances – The Employer the Union and the Employees agree that the prevalling shift system 
shall remain in force during the pendency of this agreement unless mutually agreed by the parties.
Day Shift 7.30 am to 7.00 pm
Night Shift 7.00 pm to 7.30 am (following day)
The Employer agrees to continue to pay shift allowances during the period of this agreement at the prevalling rates.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 3A
   5. Production Incentive Scheme – The Employer, the Union and the Employees agree that the prevalling Production 
Incentive Scheme shall continue during the period of this Collective Agreement.
   6. Attendance Incentive – The Employer, the union and the Employees agree that the prevalling attendance incentive 
scheme shall continue during the period of this Collective Agreement.
 
   7. Annual Bonus – Without prejudice to the claim of the employer that bonus payme nts are ex-gratia and at its 
discretion, the Employer, the Union and the Employees agree as follows:
The Employer will pay one months' bonus based on the average mo nthly basic salary of all permenent 
employees in the clerical supervisory and allied grades. The pa yment of this bonus will be made only if the 
Company has made a suﬃ  cient proﬁ t in the relevant ﬁ nancial year to cover bonus payments applicable to all 
categories of employees for that year.
In the event of payment of a bonus, the employees will receive the bonus based on a ranking method taking 
into consideration their Attendance, Punctuality and any warning letters issued to them (where applicable).
 A grade performers - 1 Months' Salary
 B grade performers - 
3/4 Months' Salary
 C grade performers - 1/2 Months' Salary
 D grade performers - 1/4 Months' Salary
(The basic salary for this purpose shall be the basic salary + budgetary relief allowance (if any).
   8. Variation of Terms & Conditions – The Employer, Union and the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement 
undertake that they shall not during the continuance of this Agreement attempt to or seek to vary, alter or add to all or any of 
the terms and conditions of employment presently applicable to any of the employees covered and bound by this Agreement, 
other than by mutual agreement.
   9. Trade Union Action – The Union and the Employees jontly and severally agree with the  Employer that during 
the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of trade union action against the 
Employer in respect of any dispute between the Union or the Employees and the Employer in connection with or arising out 
of any matter covered by this Agreement.
   10. Dispute Settlement Procedure – Parties also agree that they would settle any dispute that may arise with regard 
to matters not covered by this agreement in the following manner:
 a) Whenever there is a dispute, a written statement of the dispute should be forwarded by the branch committee 
of the Union to the employer, and at least two weeks given for the employer to resolve the dispute.
 b) If no satisfactory solution is found the matter should be refe rred to the parent union and to the Employer's 
Federation of Ceylon (EFC) for the purpose of attempting to resolve the dispute through discussions.
 c) If after discussions referred to in (b) the matter cannot be r esolved by the intervention of the EFC and the 
parent union, conciliatory proceedings under the Industrial Disputes Act should be followed. 
 d) If after concilliation has failed in the Labour Department, th e Union wishes to take Trade Union Action, 
written notice should be given of not less than 14 days to the Employer and the EFC. 
 e) However, where the dispute has been caused by an act of the Em ployer which in the opinion of the 
Executive Committee of the Union as conﬁ rmed by the General Secretary of the Union has undermined 
the existence or the legitimate activities of the Union, the pr ovisions of clauses 10(a) to 10(d) shall not 
apply and the Union shall be entitiled to take trade union acti on provided that they have given at least 7 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 4A
days written notice to the Employer and the EFC.
In witness hereof parties have set their hands hereunto on this Twenty Seventh day of February Two Thousand and Twenty 
(2020) at colombo
07-716

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 5A
My No: CI/1335
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131   
     
The Collective Agreement entered into between Ceylon Biscuits Limited, P. O. Box 3, Makumbura, Pannipitiya  of the one 
part and the Inter Company Employees Union, No. 259/9, Sethsiri  Mawatha, Koswatte Talangama  of the other part on 
16th June 2020 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of th e Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative 
Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
 B. K. Pඋൺൻൺඍඁ Cඁൺඇൽඋൺ඄ൾൾඋඍඁං,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat, 
Colombo 05.
23rd day of June, 2021.
 
Collective Agreement No. 28 of  2020
Collective Agreement
This Collective Agreement made on this 16th day of June Two Thousand Twenty, to take eﬀ ect from ﬁ rst day of January Two 
Thousand twenty, between Ceylon Biscuits Limited, a company duly registered under the companies' ordinance, and having its 
registered oﬃ  ce at P. O. Box 03, Makumbura, Pannipitiya, (hereinafter referred to as "the employer") of the one part and the 
Inter Company Employees Union, a Trade Union duly registered under the Trade Unions' Ordinance and having its registered 
oﬃ  ce at 259/9, Sethsiri Mawatha, Koswatte, Thalangama (hereinafter referred to as "the Union") of the other part.
It is hereby agreed by and between the aforesaid parties, as follows:-
   1 .  Title –  This Agreement shall be known and referred to as the Ceylon Biscuits Limited Factory Employees' Collective 
Agreement.
   2 .  Parties Covered and Bound –  This Agreement shall cover and bind the  Employer and the Union and employees 
presently employed by the Employer in its factory on permanent monthly contracts in the grades of employment for which 
salary scales have been set out in the ﬁ rst schedule here of and are members of the Union.
 3 .  Duration of the Agreement –   This Collective Agreement shall be eﬀ ective from the ﬁ rst day of January Two 
Thousand Twenty, and may be terminated by either party with one   month's written notice to the other, provided however 
that either party shall give such notice prior to the thirtieth day of November, Two Thousand and Twenty Two. Any notice of 
termination of this Agreement given by either party, prior to the Thirtieth day of November, Two Thousand and Twenty Two, 
shall not be regarded as valid notice and shall be of no avail.
   4 .  Salaries –  With eﬀ ect from ﬁ rst January Two Thousand and Twenty, the Employer will pay salaries to employees 
covered and bound by this agreement, in accordance with the salary scales set out in the ﬁ rst schedule hereof. 

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 6A
   5 .  Conversion to New Salary Scales – 
 i.  Salary Revision with eﬀ  ect from 1st January 2020
  To ascertain the monthly salary payable to an employee, with eﬀ ect from ﬁ rst January Two Thousand and Twenty 
(2020), a sum of rupees Two thousand Seven Hundred and Fifty (Rs. 2,750/=) will be added to the salary that was 
paid to such employee in the month of December Two Thousand and Nineteen and such employee shall thereafter 
be placed on the corresponding point in monetary terms of the salary scales set out in the ﬁ rst schedule hereof.
 ii. Salary Revision With Eﬀ  ect From 1st January 2021
  With eﬀ  ect from First January Two Thousand and Twenty One (2021), the  salary of each employee covered 
and bound by this Agreement shall be revised by the addition of  Rupees Two Thousand and Five Hundred
(Rs. 2,500/=) to the salary received by such employee in the month of December Two Thousand and Twenty. 
Each employee shall thereafter be placed on the corresponding point in monetary terms of the salary scales set 
out in the First Schedule hereof.
 iii. Salary Revision With Eﬀ  ect From 1st January 2022
  
  With eﬀ  ect from First January Two Thousand and Twenty Two (2022), the salary of each employee covered 
and bound by this Agreement shall be revised by the addition of  Rupees Two Thousand and Five Hundred
(Rs. 2,500/=) to the salary received by such employee in the mo nth of December Two Thousand and Twenty 
one. Each employee shall thereafter be placed on the correspond ing point in monetary terms of the salary 
scales set out in the First Schedule hereof.
   6 .  Bonus –
 i By way of bonus, the Employer will pay all employees, who ha ve completed one or more years of service, 
a sum equal to one month's salary per employee, in December each year, in the manner calculated as per the 
Second Schedule hereof.
 ii In the month of April each year, the Employer will pay to e ach employee, who has served during the entire 
previous calendar year, a bonus related to attendance, in the m anner calculated as per the Second Schedule 
hereof.
 iii Provided the business operations of the employer have been  reached the tergeted proﬁ t in the 12 months 
preceding, to warrant the declaration of a bonus, the employer will, in the month of March each year, declare 
a bonus which will be paid subject to the conditions of the Second Schedule hereof. In the event of no bonus 
being declared by the employer in the month of March, unless as provided herein, the Union reserves to itself 
the right to raise an industrial dispute and have such dispute resolved under the provisions of clause 11 of 
this Agreement. The union and the Employees undertake that they shall not resort to any form of trade union 
action in respect of a dispute arising with regrad to this bonus payment.
 iv Calculation of unauthorized absence for the purpose of clau ses 6(i), 6(ii) and 6(iii) and 7 of this agreement 
will be eﬀ ective from the year 2021 and will be based on the attendance of calendar year 2020.
   7 .  Attendance Incentive Bonus - April – In addition to the April bonus, an attendance incentive Bonus o f 50% of 
the basic salary will be paid to employees eligible as per the Second Schedule.
  ''Absence'' for the purpose of calculating this attendance in centive payment shall be all days an employee is 
absent from work without authority.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 7A
  ''Salary'' for the purpose of calculating this attendance inc entive bonus will be the salary which is applicable 
to each employee at the time the incentive Bonus is paid.
   8 .  Leave –
  Casual Leave - Employees shall be entitled to 7 days casual leave during any calendar year. In the ﬁ rst year 
of employment, the casual leave entitlement shall be on the bas is of one day for every two months worked. 
Casual leave shall not be taken in excess of two consecutive days at a time and shall not precede or succeed 
any period of annual or sick leave. All casual leave should be applied for in advance, provided however that 
in the event of any unforeseen circumstances, which prevents an  employee from making an application in 
advance,  he/she shall inform the Employer of the reasons for the absence within a period of 24 hours.
  Sick Leave - Employees shall be entitled to 7 days sick leave during any c alendar year. In the ﬁ rst year 
of employment, the sick leave entitlement shall be on the basis  of one day for every two months worked. 
Wherever possible, an employee shall make an application for si ck leave in advance and where such 
application cannot be made in advance, he shall inform the Employer of the reasons for this absence witthin 
24 hours. Any period of sick leave in excess of two days shall have to be supported by a Medical Certiﬁ cate 
acceptable to the Employer.
  Annual Leave - The Employees will be entitled to Annual Leave in terms of the decisions of the Wages Board 
for the Biscuit and Confectionary Manufacturing Trade.
   9 .  Disputes Settlement  Procedure – It is agreed by and between parties, that any industrial dispute that may occur 
between the Employer and the Union and/or the employees, during the period of this Agreement, shall be dealt with in the 
manner set out hereunder :-
 i The Branch Union or the employees concerned shall, at the ou tset raise any dispute with the Employer and 
both parties shall endeavour to reach a satisfactory settlement of the dispute through negotiations.
 ii In the event of there being no settlement, after consultati on between parties as aforesaid, the Branch Union 
shall raise the matter with the Union and the Union shall raise  it with the Employers' Federation of Ceylon, 
of which the Employer is a member, and the Union and the Federa tion shall strive to reach a satisfactory 
settlement in consultation with all parties concerned.
 iii. In the event of there being no satisfactory settlement, c onsequent to the attempt made by the Union and the 
Employer's Federation of Ceylon, either party may seek the inte rvention of the Commissioner General of 
Labour to settle the dispute, in accordance with the provision of the Industrial Disputes Act.
 iv. If after concilliation has failed in the Department of Lab our, the Union wishes to take Trade Union action, 
written notice should be given of not less than 14 days to the Employer and to the Employers' Federation of 
Ceylon regarding such Trade Union action.
   10. Trade Union Action – It is agreed that the Union or the employees shall not resort to any form of Trade Union 
action in respect of any industrial dispute pertaining to this agreement during the period of this Agreement and  shall endeavour 
to settle any industrial dispute that may arise during the period of this agreement, in accordace with the Dispute Procedure laid 
down herein.
   1 1 .  Variation of Terms and Conditions – It is agreed by and between parties that neither party, will, during the period 
of this agreement attempt in any manner to change, vary, alter, add to or amend in any form, any of the terms and conditions 
set out in this agreement and / or any other terms and conditions which are currently applicable to the employees covered and 
bound by this agreement, other than by way of mutual consent.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 8A
   12. Reciprocal Obligations of the Employees –  In pursuance of the concessions granted by the Employer to the 
Union and the employees , the Union and the employees shall reciprocate in such manner as will beneﬁ t both employees and 
the company. For this purpose, the employees shall -
 a. Customer service - contribute at all times to excellence in customer service.
 b. Productivity - Co-operate in the implementation of training and all performance improvement measures adopted 
from time to time aimed at enhancing the productivity of the Hu man, Technological and Financial Resources 
procured and applied by the Company.
  If  the Company requires work to be performed on a statutory holiday or a Poya day, and upon suﬃ  cient prior notice 
being given to workers in that regard, a worker may volunteer to work on such statutory or Poya holiday subject 
to statutory obligations imposed on the Company in respect of the performed on that day.
  The Union agrees that they will not object to such work arran gement if done with the consent of workers.
 c. Quality - Actively and  consistently contribute to achieve and maintain those standards of quality prescribed by 
National and International Institutions and which may be prescribed from time to time as applicable to product and 
processes engaged in by the Company and as may be laid down by the Management.
 d. Security - Contribute actively to maintain the security of all personnel and property belonging to the Company.
 e. Safety - Consistently maintain prescribed safety  standards in regard to persons, equipment, process, material, work 
group, work environment and follow all instructions, which may be given from time to time, aimed at securing the 
sefety of the above.
 f. To ensure that all Company issued clothing and devices / to ols will be kept  in good condition and to immediately 
report all equipment defects to supervisors.
 g. Personal Hygien - Meet and consistently maintain all standards and practices set out for the personal hygiene of 
employees as required by the Management.
 h. House- keeping - Meet and extend full co- operation in maintaing standards set out for good house - keeping. 
 i. Accept recognized work study ﬁ  ndings and to optimize skills and manning levels accordingly .
 j. Service Image - Consistently maintain intergrity in service and not expect or accept gratiﬁ cation in any form or 
manner from customers, distributors, suppliers or their Agents or representatives for any services rendered in the 
performance of employees' duties.
 k. Job Rotation - Job enlargement and rotation to be adhered.
 l. Company Image - Actively and wherever possible,promote the good image of the Company, and refrain from acting 
in any manner within or outside of the environment that would adversely aﬀ ect the image, goodwill or reputation 
of the Company and its employees.
 m. Minimizing of waste - Actively and consistently contribute to all prescribed activities by the management and the 
company to eliminate waste of.
a. Wrapping 
b. Biscuit grinding
c. Sweeping
d. Other waste

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 9A
 n. Saturday night shift - All Female employees absorbed to the permanent cardre from 1st day of Janury Two Thousand 
Seventeen onwards and all female employees who will be absorbed to the permanent cadre in future, to report to Saturday 
night shift (10 p.m. to 6 a.m.) as a normal routine shift.
   13. Reciprocal Obligations of the Employer –
a.  The Company shall, for the duration of this Collective Agreement, absorb a minimum of 30 employees annually 
to the permanent cadre from the "3 years contract pool" based on their satisfactory attendance,seniority and good 
conduct.
 The "3 year contract pool" herein refers to employees in the three (3) year ﬁ xed term contract pool of the Company.
 This shall become eﬀ  ective from the date of signing of this Collective Agreement.
b. The Company shall, for the duration of this Collective Agreement, provide an opportunity for a minimum of 20 
manpower employees per annum to be absorbed to the "3 year contract pool" as new employees subject to the 
Company's recruitment process.
In witness hereof parties have set their hands on this 16th day of June Two Thousand Twenty.


<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 10A


<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 11A


<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 12A


<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 13A


<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 14A


<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 15A


<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 16A


<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 17A


<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 18A
SECOND SCHEDULE
I. Bonus Paid in December
  The employees who have completed one year of service, will be  entitled for a bonus payment made in the month 
of December.
II. Bonus paid in March
  The employees who have 15 days or more unauthorized absence d uring the previous calendar year will not be 
entitled to the bonus payment made in the month of March.
III. Bonus paid in April
 a.  The employees who have 5 days or more unauthorized absence  during the previous calender year will not be 
entitled to the bonus payment made in the month of April. 
 b. Employees who have half day (0.5) or  more but less than 4. 5 days of unauthorized absence during  the previous 
calendar year will be entitled to half payment (50%) of bonus payment made in the month of April.
IV . Attendance Incentive Bonus (Paid in the month of April)
  Employees who have a half day or more unauthorized absence du ring the previous calendar year will not be entitled 
to the attendance incentive bonus paid in the month of April.
Summery Table
 Unauthorized Leave Days Loss of Bonus Entitled Bonus
 Above 15 Days March, April and Attendance incentive Bonus Dece mber
 5 - 14.5 Days April Bonus (1) and Attendance Incentive Bonus D ecember and March
 0.5 - 4.5 days April bonus (0.5) and attendance Incentive Bonu s December, March Full bonus  
   and 0.5 April Bonus.
07-717
My No.: id.s$j;=$3/2020. 
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
The Collective Agreement entered into between Employers Federation of Ceylon, No. 385 J 3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya 
of the one part and the Ceylon Estate Staﬀ s Union, No. 06, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 03 of the other part on 06th November 
2019 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industri al Disputes Act,Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments 
of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
 B. K. Pඋൺൻൺඍඁ Cඁൺඇൽඋൺ඄ൾൾඋඍඁං,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour, 
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
23rd June, 2021.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 19A
Collective Agreement No. 29 of  2020
Collective Agreement - Clerical Staﬀ 
THIS  COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT made and entered into between the E mployers Federation of Ceylon, No. 385 J 3, 
Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya of the ﬁ rst part, and the Ceylon Estate Staﬀ s' Union of No 6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3 of the 
second part on this 6th day of November, Two thousand nineteen witnesseth as follows.
   1 .  Title – This Agreement shall be known as the Plantations Clerical Staﬀ  Collective Agreement.
   2 .  Employers Covered and Bound – This Agreement shall bind the members of the Employer's Federation of Ceylon, 
whose names are contained in shedule I hereto and hereinafter referred to as the Employers or Employer, as the case may be 
according to context, for and in respect of the categories of employees hereinafter described in Clause 3 hereof.
   3. Union and Employees Covered and Bound  – This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid Trade Union,  
hereinafter referred to as the Union, and members of the said U nion who are employed by the members of the Federation 
referred to in schedule I on monthly contracts of employment and in respect of whom salary ranges are precribed in schedule 
II hereon.
   4. Earlier Agreements – This provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace any earlier Agreements in 
respect of these categories and shall be deemed conclusive in relation to all terms and conditions. In the event of there being 
any dispute with regard to the existence of any other term or c ondition not contained herein, the same shall be resolved by 
reference to the 'dispute committee' and thereafter to the Commissioner General of Labour in terms of the Industrial Disputes 
Act if the matter is not resolved before the 'dispute committee', but the party of the second part shall not be entitled to take 
trade union action on the basis of the existance of any such alleged term or condition.
   5. Date of Operation and Duration – Subject to any provisions to the contrary, this Agreement shal l be eﬀ ective 
from 1st October 2019 and shall thereafter continue in force unless terminated by either party by giving notice of termination 
in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act, subject to the condition that no party shall give such notice to the other before 30th 
September 2022.
   6. General Terms and Conditions– 
 ( i) The revised terms and conditions relating to this Agreement shall only come into force on the 1st October 2019 
and shall be deemed to be included in all contracts of employme nt of those covered by this Agreement with 
eﬀ ect from the said date.
 ( ii) Grading of employees covered shall be at the discretion of th e Employer.
 ( iii) Upon completion of 10 years of service under the same employer, Administrative Oﬃ  cers shall be re-designated 
as 'Special Grade Administrative Oﬃ  cers' with a minimum of one (1) increment.
 ( iv) Upon completion of 10 years satisfactory service under the same employer, Junior Clerks shall be re-designated 
as clerks, with a minimum of one (1) increment.
 ( v) Any employee enjoying better terms and conditions than what is stipulated in this Agreement shall continue to 
enjoy the same.
   7 .  First Appointment – 
 ( i) No person will be recruited to a grade covered by this Agreem ent unless he has successfully completed the 
G.C.E (Ordinary Level) Examination with English and Arithmetic/Mathematics. This will not apply to those 
who have experience in the trade.
 ( ii) All designations of new recruits should be as speciﬁ ed under schedule II hereof.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 20A
 ( iii) Storekeepers are to be placed in a grade that is comparable t o those in the clerical grade on salary applicable 
to clerks.  
   8 .  Probation – On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of probation of not more than six months, subject 
to the right of the Employer to extend the probationary period for a further period of three months at his discretion for reasons 
of unsatisfactory performance, misconduct or other justiﬁ able cause. Conﬁ rmation shall be by letter. However, in the event 
of the probationary period not being extended after the period of 6 months, the employee shall be deemed to be conﬁ rmed 
not with standing there being no letter of conﬁ rmation. During the period of prabation or extended probation the Employer 
shall have the right to terminate his/her service without notice or assigning reasons therefor.
   9 .  Attendance at Work – Unless otherwise speciﬁ cally instructed by the Employer an employee shall present himself 
for work on every day other than a holiday due to him, at the u sual starting time and at the usual working place and shall 
thereafter remain available for work throughout the normal working hours.
   1 0 .  Promotions – 
 ( i) Wherever vacancies exist, all other factors being comparable, seniority shall be given preference. The Employers 
shall advertise internally vacancies where employees covered by  this Agreement may have appropriate skills 
and qualiﬁ cations to make them eligible.
 ( ii) Where an employee acts in a senior capacity over a period of 6 months and if he is conﬁ rmed in the senior 
capacity, he will not be required to serve a period of probaiton.
 
 ( iii) Where an employee is required to act in a senior capacity for  a period of more than one month, it should be 
communicated to him in writing and he shall be paid an Action A llowance of Rupees Two Thousand Five 
Hundred (Rs. 2500/-) per mensem. When conﬁ rmed, this acting allowance shall be added to the salary.
 
 ( iv) When promoting an employee to a senior position, a salary inc rese of minimum one (1) increment shall be 
granted.
 ( v) If an employee obtains a work-related course certiﬁ cate from National Institute of Plantation Management (other 
than the courses initiated by the company) as approved by the m anagement, such employee shall be granted 
special increments with reimbursement of course fee and to be considered for a higher position.
   1 1 .  Salaries – 
 1. The salaries payable to the employees covered and bound by this Agreement with eﬀ ect from 1st October 2019 
shall be as follows:
 ( i) With eﬀ  ect from 1st October 2019, the salaries of all employees in employment shall be incresed by 25% 
based on last drawn salary.
 ( ii) Employees who reach the maximum salary point depicted in the scale will continue to receive annual 
increments if they continue to remain within the same category.
 ( iii) In the case of Stenographers/Clerical staﬀ  and Storekeepers/Clerical staﬀ  who are entitiled to an allowance 
on account of work as a Stenographer or Storekeeper, as the case may be, such employee shall continue to 
receive his/her. The allowance shall not be payable if the addi
tional duties are not performed or not deemed 
necessary. Contributions to EPF and ETF shall be made in respect of this allowance.
 ( iv) In terms of the above salary revision, the salary ranges applicable will accordingly be revised as per schedule 
II of this Agreement.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 21A
 ( v) Subject to the provisions set out in clause 6(i) above, the R egional Plantations Companies covered and 
bound shall pay the revised salaries in the month of October 2019.
 2. (a) With eﬀ  ect from the date hereof, employees who are entitled to a paym ent in lieu of staﬀ  quarters being 
provided to them, shall receive a 10% increment of the following allowances which will be rounded oﬀ  to 
the nearest ﬁ fty rupees. depending on the grade to which they belong, and t he revised allowance will be 
as follows:
 Junior Clerk - Rs 1,234+10% = Rs 1,350
 Clerk - Rs 1,307+10% = Rs 1,450
 Senior Clerk - Rs 1,525+10% = Rs 1,700
 Administrative Oﬃ   cer - Rs 1,670+10% = Rs 1,850
 Special Grade Admin. Oﬃ   cer - Rs 1,742+10% = Rs 1,900
  (b) In the event of any person not occupying quarters provide d by the Employer, such person shall be liable 
to disciplinary action.
   1 2 .  Annual Increments – 
 ( i) Annual increments shall be granted automatically on completio n of a year's service. The increments will be 
awarded in accordance with the practice prevailing on each estate. Where increments are awarded on a uniform 
date to all employees, in the event of an employee being conﬁ rmed in service within six months of the date on 
which increments are awarded, he shall not be entitled to any i ncrement and will become eligible only from 
the following year.
 ii. An increment may be suspended, stopped or deferred by way of punishment or for general ineﬃ  ciency, after 
the employee has been notiﬁ ed in writing of such fact. In the case of deferment, the loss of increment shall be 
continuous, whereas stoppage would be only for the period relevant to the stoppage.
 iii. Revised annual increments shall be paid as stated below t o all employees in employment as on 1st October 
2019.
  2019/20 2020/21 2021/22
 Junior Clerk Rs600/- Rs600/- Rs675/-
 Clerk Rs700/- Rs700/- Rs825/-
 Storekeeper Rs700/- Rs700/- Rs825/- 
 Senior Clerk Rs850/- Rs850/- Rs1025/-
 Admin Oﬃ   cer Rs1350/- Rs1350/- Rs1575/-
 Special Grade Admin Oﬃ   cer Rs1700/- Rs1700/- Rs2025/-
   13. Hours of Work And Overtime – If required by his Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable overtime 
which has been authorized by the Employer. Each hour of overtim e work shall be calculated as per the provisions of the 
Shop & Oﬃ  ce Employees' Act.
   14. Weekly and Poya Holidays – An employee will be entitled to weekly holidays on Saturday half-day and Sunday 
full day as provided in the Shop & Oﬃ   ce Employees Act. Payment for work on such days shall be remu nerated at the 
prescribed statutory rates.
   15. Statutory Holidays – An employees covered by this Agreement will be entitled to statutory holidays as provided 
in the Shop & Oﬃ  ce Employees' Act.
 Tamil Thai Pongal Day
 National Day

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 22A
 Day Prior to Sinhala & Tamil New Year
 Sinhala & Tamil New Year Day
 May Day
 Day Following Vesak Full Moon Poya Day
 Holy Prophet's Birthday (Milad - Un- Nabi)
 Christmas Day
  Payment for work on such holidays shall be remunerated accord ing to the provisions of the Shop & Oﬃ  ce 
Employees' Act.
   16. Leave –
 1  Annual Leave - shall be granted as prescribed  in the Shop & Oﬃ   ce Employees Act. All employees with 
more than 20 years' service and Heads of Departments shall be entitled to three weeks paid annual leave as a 
special beneﬁ ts; this right shall not extent to any employee recruited after 1st September 1993. Annual leave 
not utilized in any one year shall not be carried over to the next year.
 2  Casual Leave - All employees shall be entitled in each year to a maximum of seven (7) days Casual Leave 
with full pay, not more than three (3) days being taken at a time. Casual leave not utilized in any one year will 
not be carried over to the next year.
 3 (i) Sick Leave - Leave on full pay shall be granted up to a maximum of 21 wor king days in a year. 
Sick leave will be granted up to two days at a time without the  submission of a Medical Certiﬁ cate. 
For leave of three days and over, a medical certiﬁ  cate from an approved Medical Practitioner or 
Government Hospital shall be considered necessary, subject to the right of the Employer to call for a 
medical certiﬁ cate as aforementioned, where he deems it appropriate.
  (ii) In the event of an employee not availing himself of his full quota of sick leave, he may carry forward 
his leave, which he could use in the event of hospitalization o r a prolonged illness in a succeeding 
year, subject to the condition however that he cannot avail him self of more than 90 days on that 
account.
  (iii) In the case of an employee whose terms presently permit  a higher quantum of sick leave he/she shall 
be permitted to continue to enjoy such concession as personal to him/her.
  4  Maternity Leave
   Maternity leave will be as per the provisions of the Shop & Oﬃ  ce Employees' Act. Accordingly, 84 
Working days of maternity leave will be granted on a live child birth. 
   17. Administrative Transfers–
 i Transfers not involving hardship in relation to schooling of  children or employment of a spouse, will, 
subject to the exigencies of the service and the requirements of the Employer, be made at the discretion 
of the Management with one month's notice in writing.
 ii Transfers from one estate to another or from one division t o another which are likely to cause hardship 
on account of children's schooling or the spouses employment shall generally be made at the end of the 
year with three (3) calendar month's notice in writing on or before 30th September.
 iii Employees whose children are sitting for the GCE OL/AL exa mination for the ﬁ rst time will not be 
transferred in that particular year.
 iv The transfers of Employees whose children are to be admitte d to Grade 1 in School also will be considered 
on a case- by-case basis.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 23A
 v No employee shall be transferred from one plantation company  to another managed by the same 
management company, without the consent of the employee.
 vi No employee covered by this Agreement shall be transferred,  except on disciplinary grounds, in the last 
year prior to his retirement.
 vii The provisions of sub-clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) ab ove shall not apply to transfers on disciplinary 
grounds, but the management shall give reasonable notice, depending on the circumstances of each case.
  18.  Age of Retirement – 
 ( i) Unless the letter of appointment speciﬁ  es a higher retiral age, the age of retirement shall be 60 yea rs and will 
be applicable to those who are in employment as at the date of signing this Agreement.
 ( ii) However, an Employer may retire an employee at the age of 55 years, subject to unsatisfactory work performance, 
conduct or state of health of the employee. For this purpose 'u nsatisfactory work performance' shall include 
any act of misconduct in respect of which disciplinary action has been taken.
 ( iii) An employer who decides to retire an employee at the age of 5 5 years on grounds stated at (ii) above shall 
give such employee one year's notice in writing or pay one year 's salary in lieu of such notice. Where such 
notice is not given and the employee concerned is found guilty of misconduct during such one year period, 
which misconduct would have otherwise resulted in his retiremen t at 55 years, the employee shall be retired 
on reaching 55 years notwithstanding the fact that notice has not been given or payment made in lieu.
   1 9 .  Gratuity – Gratuity shall be payable in accordance with the Payment of Gratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983
   2 0 .  Disciplinary Inquiries– 
 ( i) An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer pending an inquiry on a charge which warrants 
dismissal or where, in the opinion of the Employer, a breach of  the peace, damage to property or disturbance 
of business needs to be avoided. Where an employee is suspended without pay be shall be notiﬁ ed in a general 
manner of the reasons for such suspension within 3 days of the actual suspecsion.
 ( ii) An employee may also be suspended with pay pending a discipli nary investigation and inquiry, where the 
Management deems that such measure is necessary.
 ( iii) An employee is entitled to be furnished with a 'show cause' notice setting out the charges of misconduct alleged 
against him and the employee shall be granted not less than seven (7) clear working days in which to give the 
answer or explanation. Where necessary the employee may request further time and the Employer shall permit 
a reasonable amount of time depending on the nature of the char ges, but not exceeding a total of 14 working 
days, other than in exceptional circumstances.
 
 ( iv) If the employer is satisﬁ ed with the written explanation, the employee shall be exonerated of the charge or charges 
and where appropriate he shall be summoned to report back or work. Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, 
the employer shall hold a disciplinary inquiry within a reasona ble length of time and shall commence such 
inquiry within 30 working days from the date on which the expla nation to the 'show cause' letter is received, 
unless circumstances prevent the employer from doing so.
 ( v) An employee shall be permitted to have a Union member to defe nd him at the inquiry. Such representative 
shall not be a professional. If the employee wishes to have the  beneﬁ t of such representation he shall inform 

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 24A
the Superintendent of the name of the person defending him at l east 48 hours before the inquiry is due to 
commence. The Superintendent may object to the individual selec ted, in which event the accused employee 
may nominate another representative. The failure of an employee to be defended by a representative shall not 
vitiate the inquiry.
 ( vi) The employer shall endeavor to give the ﬁ  ndings and convey the punishment, if any, within a period of 3 0 
working days from the date on which the inquiry is concluded, unless there is justiﬁ cation for the delay. In no 
case shall the ﬁ ndings be delayed beyond 90 working days from the date of conclusion of the inquiry, save and 
except in the case of a pending criminal investigation. If no ﬁ ndings are given within 90 working days and the 
above exception does not apply, the accused employee shall be exonerated of the charges.
 ( vii) Notwithstanding the above provisions, an employer may, where the circumstances so warrant, terminate an 
employee summarily. In such event, the letter of termination shall set out the reasons for termination, including 
the justiﬁ cation for summary termination. In such event, the Union may a ppeal to the Employer or to the 
appropriate forum.
   2 1 .  Suspension Pending Disciplinary Inquiries– 
 ( i) An employee may be suspended from work without pay for a peri od not exceeding one month pending a 
disciplinary inquiry when there is prima facie evidence, in the opinion of the Employer, of a charge or charges 
of misconduct against him. Such suspension shall be in writing.
 ( ii) Suspension of an employee on the ground referred to in sub-cl ause (i) above for any period in excess of one 
month shall be on half pay.
 ( iii) The provisions contained in sub-clauses (i) and (ii) above sh all not apply to the suspension of an employee 
pending inquiries by the Police, by other Public Authorities or Audit Veriﬁ cations.
   2 2 .  Suspension as a Measure of Punishment– 
 ( i) Punishment for oﬀ  ences in the case of an employee may include suspension, provi ded however that such 
suspension shall not exceed fourteen days without pay and shall be in writing. 
 ( ii) Punishment in excess of three days suspension without pay sha ll only be after a domestic inquiry.
   2 3 .  Variations of Terms and Conditions of Employment & Disputes
 ( i) Parties hereto agree that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary, alter or 
add to any of the terms and conditions of employment, except by mutual consent.
 ( ii) Any employee enjoying a beneﬁ t, which is over and above the normal entitlement, shall continue to enjoy the 
same as personal, but this beneﬁ t shall not extend to any other employee. The above provision shall not apply 
to the consumption of electricity, where  a limit is ﬁ xed for all employees.
 ( iii) Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this Agreement shal l be resolved by reference to the Commissioner 
General of Labour under the Industrial Disputes Act, and if no settlement could be reached, by voluntary 
arbitration thereafter.
 ( iv) It is agreed by and between parties that the Unions, collecti vely or independently, or their members, shall not 
resort to any form of trade union action on any matter covered by this Agreement or is connected therewith.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 25A
  2 4. Disputes Resolution Committee – It is agreed by parties that the Disputes Resolution Committee' will meet once in 
three months to resolve any dispute that may arise in relation to any violation of the provisions of this Agreement. However, 
in case of an urgent necessity a meeting will be held with two weeks' notice if requested by either party. Decisions arrived at 
the Dispute Resolution Committee shall be implemented within a period agreed between the parties.
   2 5. Duty Leave – 
 ( i) Subject to the approval of their respective employers, the pre sident and one other oﬃ  ce bearer of the Parent 
Union will be permitted such duty leave as their Union duties require.
 ( ii) Where any dispute arises with regard to duty leave of the Pres ident and the nominated oﬃ  ce bearer of 
the Parent Union, as speciﬁ ed in sub clause (i) above, the Federation will attempt to eﬀ  ect an amicable 
settlement between parties.
 ( iii) By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the Treasurer of the Parent Union shall be allowed twelve days 
duty leave in any one year.
 ( iv) By arrangement with their respective Employers, Two Vice Presi dents of the Union shall be allowed twelve 
days duty leave which may be shared, on condition that the tota l leave availed jointly by these two vice 
presidents shall not exceed twelve days in any one year.
 ( v) By arrangement with their respective employers, Branch Chairma n and Sub-branch Chairman of the Union 
shall be allowed twelve days duty leave which may be shared, with the respective Branch Secretaries on 
condition that the total leave availed jointly by these two oﬃ  ce bearers shall not exceed twelve days in 
any one year.
 ( vi) Duty leave shall be granted to one employee selected from amon gst all staﬀ  categories per estate selected 
by the union to attend seminars and workshops conducted by the union or any other labour related institute 
on not more than two occasion in a year for a period not exceeding four (4) days. The union shall inform 
the employers in writing the requirement of duty leave required in terms of this clause.
Part II
   1.  The Regional Plantation Companies covered and bound by this Agreement more fully described in schedule I to 
this Agreement undertake to discuss with the union to resolve any issues relevant to employees in a situation of amalgamation/
sub-leasing of estates/divisions/factories prior to such situat ions. However, the relevant regional plantation company will 
continue to be the employer of such employees.
 
   2. Electricity – Free electricity would be granted to members of staﬀ   on the following basis, irrespective of what 
they had been enjoying in the past.
Elevation below 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)
 Senior staﬀ   - 140 units
 Junior staﬀ   - 100 units
Elevation above 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)
 Senior staﬀ   - 170 units
 Junior staﬀ   - 130 units

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 26A
Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in 6 months o n the accumulated ﬁ gure at the rate that 
costs each estate.
Kerosene - Employer shall provide 25 litres kerosene per mensem  to those employees resident on estates/
divisions without electricity.
   3. Tea Allowance – The Employer, shall provide free tea, on the following basis, to members of estate staﬀ  (including 
future recruits in those cateogories presently entitled) irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.
 Senior staﬀ   - 2 Kgs
 Junior staﬀ   - 1 1/2 Kgs
The staﬀ  members could purchase in addition to the above free tea, the same quantities at the rate of 75% of 
the NSA or COP whichever is lower.
Staﬀ  members who had been entitled to three or more kilos of tea a t a concessionary rate before June 1992 
would be entitiled to purchase a maximum of 3 Kgs at a concessionary rate of 35% of COP or NSA whichever 
is lower with eﬀ ect from 1st June 2003.
   4. Death Grant – 
 ( i) With eﬀ  ect from the date hereof, on the death of a staﬀ   member, the dependants will be paid a sum of 
Rs. 100,000 as funeral expenses.
 ( ii) The dependants of the deceased staﬀ   member will be paid 50% of the sum equivalent to 3 months salary 
within one month upon the death of the employee and the balance  at the time the dependants hand over 
the staﬀ  quarters.
 ( iii) If quarters are not provided to the deceased staﬀ   member, the dependants will be paid the sum equivalent 
to 3 months' salary within one month of the death of the staﬀ  member.
   5. Medical Aid Scheme – 
 ( i) The Employee contribution to the medical aid scheme will be 5%  and the Employer's contribution shall 
be 10%.
 ( ii) A staﬀ   member who is a member of the staﬀ  medical aid scheme will be paid the total balance lying to 
his/her credit in the fund inclusive of the company's contribution to such fund, at the time of retirement/
death or termination of his/ her employment from the estate.
   6. Union Subscription – 
 ( i) The Employer agrees, on the written request of an employee, to  deduct from the wages due to such 
employee, the current monthly union subscription as speciﬁ ed by the employee, to be payable monthly 
by the employee to the union and remit the amount so deducted to the union by the following month, till 
such time the employee maintains his request.
 ( ii) In the event of the union being representative of less than 40 % of the employees, no remittance in respect 
of check-oﬀ  would be made thereafter.

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 27A
INTERPRETATION
 
 Word Meaning
 Union means the union referred to as the party of the Second Part in this Agreement.
 Dispute shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Dispu tes Act.
 Employer means a company who has subscribed to this Agreement and is referred 
  to in Schedule I hereof.
 Week means the period between midnight on any Saturday and midnight on the  
  succeeding Sunday night.
 Year means a continuous period of 12 months.
 Gender a reference to the masculine gender shall include the f eminine as well.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 28A


<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 29A
SCHEDULE I
 
 Agalawatte Plantations PLC
 Agarapatana Plantations Limited
 Balangoda Plantations PLC
 Bogawantalawa Tea Estates PLC
 Elpitiya Plantations PLC
 Elkaduwa Plantations Limited
 Hapugastenne Plantations PLC
 Hatton Plantations PLC
 Horana Plantations PLC
 Kahawatte Plantations PLC
 Kelani Valley Plantations PLC
 Kotagala Plantations PLC
 Madulsima Plantations PLC
 Malwatte Valley Plantations PLC
 Maturata Plantations Limited
 Pussellawa Plantations Limited 
 Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC
 Udapussellawa Plantations PLC
 Watawala Plantations PLC
SCHEDULE II
 
 Clerical Staﬀ   Salary Ranges
 Previous Salary Present Salary Proposed Increment
  with 25% Initial 2019/20 & 2021/22
   Salary 2020/21
 Junior Clerk Rs. 24,100 Rs. 30,125 Rs.30,125 Rs. 600 Rs. 675
 Clerk Rs. 24,350 Rs. 30,438 Rs. 30,440 Rs. 700 Rs. 825
 Stores Keeper Rs. 24,350 Rs. 30,438 Rs. 30,440 Rs. 700 Rs. 825
 Senior Clerk Rs. 24,600 Rs. 30,750 Rs. 30,750 Rs. 850 Rs. 1,02 5
 Admin. Oﬃ   cer Rs. 25,850 Rs. 32,313 Rs. 32,320 Rs. 1,350 Rs. 1,575
 Special Grade Admin Oﬃ  cer Rs. 31,100 Rs. 38,875 Rs. 38,880 Rs. 1,700 Rs. 2,025
07-718
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.