

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
w;s úfYI
wxl 1826$24 - 2013 iema;eïn¾ ui 04 jeks nodod - 2013'09'04
No. 1826/24  - WEDNESDAY   SEPTEMBER  04, 2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
UV A   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Uva Provincial Road Statute No. 02 of 2010 of the Provincial Council of Uva
I, Ratnayake Mudiyanselage Kumarasiri Ratnayake, the Minister in charge of Road Development, Housing, Water Supply,
Consumer Affairs and Co-operative and Food Supply and Distribution of Uva Province Provincial Council, hereby declare
the following orders as per powers entrusted to me under sub Section (6) (f) of Section (6) of the Road statute No. 02 of 2010
of Uva Province Provincial Council.
R. M. K
UMARASIRI RATNAYAKE,
Minister in charge of Road Development, Housing,
Water Supply, Consumer Affairs and
Co-operatives and Food Supply and Distributions,
Uva Province Provincial Council.
09th May, 2013,
At the office of the Minister,
R. H. Gunawardene Mawatha,
Badulla.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
ROAD STATUTE NO. 02 OF 2010 OF UV A PROVINCE
ORDERS
01. These orders may be cited as “Provincial Road orders”.
02. The decision of the Minister incharge of the subject of Roads of Uva Province Provincial
Council called as “the minister” hereinafter would be conclusive regarding any matter arising in relation to
the Provincial Road Orders of Uva Province that would be mentioned as orders hereinafter.
03. To declare a “Development area” as per Section 6 of the statute the relevant order published
by the minister should carry clearly the details of the “development area”. This order should contain
details of the district or districts, the divisional secretariat area or areas, Grama Niladhari area or areas,
village or villages under the development area and the names of the lands and the extents of each of those
lands and their boundaries.
Conclusiveness
of the decision
of minister.
Declaration of
Development
area.
Title.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
2A
04. After declaring a development area as per section 3 above, the director or his divisional
engineer or some other officer in written authorization should be able to mark out the boundaries of the
developing area using wooden wedges, concrete posts or any other suitable mean after 21 days from the
date of the declaration notice.
05. Copies of the order of the minister issued as per section 3 above, should be published in
Sinhala, Tamil and English languages within and around the relevant development area by notices. And
also the copies of that notice should be sent by hand or through registered post to persons who declare
ownership for lands of the development area.
06. As per section 5 above when the notices of the orders are sent to landowners by registered
post, such receipts or when delivered by hand a document from the landowner admitting such delivery
should be collected. Such receipt or document would be prima facie written evidence for proving such
notification.
07. (1) It would be legal to enter into any land within the expected developing area with needed
tools, equipment, vehicles and machinery to collect data or for any other matter that would be needed to
declare a developing area as per section 9 of this statute to the divisional engineer or any other officer
servicement or labourers depoloyed by him.
(2) The landowners, should be notified in written by registered post or by hand at least 14 day
prior, before entering a land as per sub section (1) above for any work mentioned in sub section (1).
(3) When acting as per sub section (2) above, a receipt for the notification by registered post or a
document of accepting the delivery of the notice to the landowner should be obtained. Such receipt or
document will be prima facie written evidence for such notification.
08. Land should be acquired on behalf of the Uva Province Provincial Council under the Land
Acquisition Act (chapter 460) before taking any action in relation to the development of a declared
development area.
09. (1) When declaring any road, canal or river as a provincial road as per sub section 6(a) of
section (6) of the statute, it is needed to publish the order with the details of the starting point, ending
point, length and width and a number to identify the road.
(2) The minister may published a gazette notification trilingual to announce any law, any regulation,
condition or charging a fee, in relation to use of a road declared as a provincial council road. The date of
commencement of the order should be stated in the notification and this order or command must be
exhibited to the users of the road by fixing notice boards at the starting point and the ending point of the
road. However no such order or command should be implemented within 30 days after publishing the
gazette notification.
(3) The minister may issue an order by a gazette notification in all three languages, to stop the use
or to turn the direction of any road or canal in use at present. This gazette notification should contain the
date of commencing of the said changes taking place, starting and ending points of those roads or canals
or the parts of them to be changed, the length and width of them and if alternative roads are proposed, their
starting and ending points and their lengths and widths and parking lots or turning points. However such
order should not be implemented before 14 days from the date of the notification.
(4) The minister may issue suitable regulations to prevent or control any building constructions
in time to time within the limits of building construction area through a gazette notification published in all
three languages. Anyhow such a regulation should not be put into practice until 30 days from the date of
the publication of the gazette notification.
Marking
boundaries of
development
area.
Publishing the
minister’s
declaration.
Evidence for
notification.
Entering a land
collect data.
Acquisition of
land for
development
purposes.
Announcement
of provincial
road.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
(5) (a) If the opinion of the minister is that it’s appropriate to declare a road reservation by a side
or by both sides of an existing road for the protection and its existence, it’s users or of the
vehicles using that road, he may issue gazette notification in all three languages.
(b) When declaring such a reservation as per sub section (a) above, it should state the length
of the reservation area from the center line of the road cross-wise and the length running
parallel to the road, using the kilometer posts of the particular road.
(c) When declaring a road reservation as per sub section (a) above the particular notice
should contain the activities banned within that reserved area.
(d) As soon as the notice published in the gazette, as per sub section (a) above, that notification
should be exhibited by in public places within the reservation area and its vicinity trilingual
and written notice should be sent to owners of the lands within the reservation area
through register post or by hand.
(e) The receipts obtained for sending the notices through register post or a document
admitting the delivery of the notice as per subsection (a) above by hand would be prima
facie written evidence to prove the notification at any legal matters.
(6) (a) The minister by a gazette notice published trilingual may declare a particular area within
the province as a divisional engineer division. Such a notice should elaborate the divisional
secretariat division and Grama Niladhari divisions included in such an engineer division.
(b) The boundaries of such a division declared as per subsection (a) above, should be the
administrative boundaries of the divisional secretariat area or divisional secretarial area.
(c) When declaring such a division as per sub section (a) above, specific date should be
mentioned in the particular gazette notice for the official establishment of the division.
10. The director or the divisional engineer or authorized officers, subordinates or labourers may
enter any land nearby or attached to an existing or proposed road with tools, equipment, vehicles and
machinery, for the purpose or any activity mentioned in the statute. Landowners of dwellers or person
standing for the right of the land should be informed before 7 days by a written notice by registered post
or by hand before entering into a land nearby a existing road or proposed road or a land in the vicinity by
the director. If adequate details are not found of the owners or persons standing for the ownership of that
land, the director or the divisional engineer should exhibit the notice within land 14 days prior to the
entering. However in an emergency prescribed period should not be considered.
11. (1) Compensation should be paid on the demand of the owners of the land or building or
property for the damages caused by any activity executed in relation to the statute. Such recompense
should be determined by a committee appointed by the director containing of an engineer, the divisional
secretary of the area or his agent and the Grama Niladhari of the area. However such consideration must be
made for requests made within three months of the loss.
(2) Director should be responsible to inform the applicant in written how the estimate was made
and the amount of the compensation as per sub section (a) above before paying the compensation.
(3) An appeal should be forwarded to the director within 14 by an applicant receiving a notice
mentioned as per sub section (2) when unsatisfied with the amount or the way it was estimated from the
day the notice been received.
(4) After receiving an appeal as per sub section (3) above, the director should take action as per
sub section 20(2) of the statute. Acting so, the collective decision taken by both parties would be conclusive.
Entering a land
for the purpose
of the statute.
Compensation
for property
damages due to
activities related
to the statute.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
4A
(5) In a situation of disagreement between arbiters named as per sub section 20(3) of the statute
by the director and the persons claiming compensation such demand for compensation should be forwarded
to the secretary by the director. An adjudicator should be appointed by the secretary after such demand to
make a decision after considering calculation of the recompense and the provisional details related to the
demand of recompense as sub section (2). Decision made by the adjudicator would be conclusive.
(6) The adjudicator appointed by the secretary as per subsection (5) above should be a suiting
and deserving person with a service of at least 20 years in the public or Provincial Council service.
(7) The adjudicates may decide to pay a higher recompense than the recompense notified in
writing to the applicant by the director mentioned as per subsection (2) such amount should not exceed
more than 10% of the recompense notified by the director in written to the applicant stated as per subsection
(2) above.
(8) The director may pay an allowance of rupees 2,500.00 for each decision made by adjudicator
appointed for the demand of recompense by the secretary forwarded.
(9) Appeals for recompense made for the same land, building or asset, should be considered as
one for the purpose of the subsection (8) above.
12. It is legitimate to construct alternative roads in suitable adjourning and nearby lands for the
use when constructing a road by the authorized officer as per the statute. Divisional engineers will be
responsible for notifying the users of lands, of landowners or dwellers of the lands in written before using
the particulars lands for constructing the alternative road.
(2) A written notice as per subsection (1) above should be sent to the landowner or deweller or
persons holding the right of the property at least 14 days before commencing the construction of a by road
by registered post or by hand and if details of the owners of land are not available such as notices should
be exhibited in the land or lands clearly at least 14 days before commencing the works.
(3) The length and the width, the starting point and the ending point of the proposed by-road the
duration of using the by road should be included in the written notice stated as per sub section (1) above.
Divisional engineer will be responsible to re-notify as sub sanction (2) above the landowner or persons
holding the right of the land the extended time period of using a by road if an extra time is needed to use a
by road.
13. (1) If the divisional engineer is on the view that it is required to construct a tunnel or bridge for
the safety of a road or canal or developing constricting or maintaining a road or canal in a land or across a
land adjoin or nearby a road or canal as per section 14 of the statute the landowners, dewellers or persons
holding the right for the property where lands are used for constructing tunnels bridges should be notified
as per subsection (1), (2), (3) of section 12 where temporary tunnels or bridges constructed.
(2) If the director is deciding that any tunnel or bridge should be constructed for permanent use
for safety of a road or canal or developing, constructing or maintaining road or canal in a land or across a
land adjoining or nearby a road or canal the particular land or lands needed for constructing the permanent
tunnels or bridge should acquisitive Act (chapter 460).
14. The director would be responsible for entering into an agreement with corporation, company,
plantation authority local body person or institution when assigning a construction, maintenance,
development, securing related to a provincial road or construction related to a provincial road under the
section 22(1) of the stabile for the purpose of supervision under the director for establishing the minimum
standards.
Constructing
temporary
alternative
roads.
Construction of
gaffers and
drains.
Signing
agreement for
standardizing
and supervising
other
institutional
works.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
15. A gazette notice regarding any matter or matters or all stated in section 23 of the statute should
be published trilingual by the director and no action should be made regarding the matters until 14 days of
publishing the gazette notification.
16. (1) Division engineer should issue a written permission to the applicant for providing access
roads from a road as per section 24 of the statute and it would be legal to charge a fee prescribed by the
minister time to time for issuing the permission.
(2) The permit issued as per sub section (4) should contain all the conditions, standards, charges
for damages and other regulations.
(3) A person or an institution violating the conditions standards charges and regulations under
sub section (2) shall be guilty of an offence under this statute and it would be the responsibility of the
divisional engineer to take legal action against such offence. When a person becomes guilty for an offence
under sub sectiion 24(5) whatever the statute or any other law says, the offender is liable for a fine not less
than rupees three thousand and not exceeding rupees five thousand and should adhere to the conditions,
standards, charges or other regulations stated in the permit.
(4) Any person or institution who has constructed an access road without permission violating
the conditions in the section 24 of the statute and becomes guilty for an offence under sub sentence 24 (5)
be would be liable to withdraw the unauthorized access road or get the permission from the divisional
engineer in addition to the paying of the fine.
17. If the amount estimated by the divisional engineer as per subsection 25 (3) of the statute is
exceeding rupees fifty thousand, estimate should be forwarded to the director for his approval, and upon
his approval the divisional engineer should enter into an agreement with the applicant or applicants and
give his written permission to carryout construction work.
18. (1) The Director must publish gazette notification for activities in section 26 of the statute
trilingual. All those notifications should be included with the starting points and ending points of any road
and its length and the width, the registered number and the name of the road.
(2) Any application for a constructon under a non-recompense agreement stated in sub-section
26(3) of the statute should be presented to the divisional engineer and he should forward it with his
endorsement to the director. Upon the approval of the director, the divisional engineer should enter into a
non-recompense agreement with the applicant or applicants.
(3) Upon entering into a non-recompense agreement as stated in sub section (2) above the
divisional engineer should issue the written permission for relevant constructions.
(4) It would be legalized to charge a fee approved by the minister from time to time to give the
written permission mentioned as per sub section (3) above.
(5) Following details should be included in a non-recompense agreement stated as per sub section
(2) above in addition to other details.
(a) Details of the relevant road to be constructed,
(b) A copy of the plan of the construction should be attached to the certified agreement.
(c) Certified copies of the licenses or permits to be obtained under any other law should be
attached to the agreement.
(d) Conditions of agreement.
(e) Annual charges or fees.
(f) Periods of the agreement.
Limitations for
using the roads.
Providing
Access roads.
Permission for
provisional
services.
Limitations for
constructing
buildings and
Weight limits.
10 — PG 1748

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
6A
(6) The divisional engineer should issues written advises to the person or persons or institutes
through registered post immediately after receiving a complaint against breaching of the condition or rules
or orders in a non recompense by any person of institute for reparations. The notification should stated
that if steps are not taken to rectify the breaches within 30 days of time, the agreement would be cancelled.
If so steps have taken to rectify the beaches within 30 days of time, the divisional engineer should inform
the director to cancel the agreement, in written with his recommendation.
(7) After receiving a notifications stated in subsection (6) above the director should issue an
order to cancel the non-recompense agreement to the divisional engineer.
(8) When such an order for cancelling is received by the provincial engineer, as per subsection (7)
above he should cancel the agreement and inform the cancelling in writting to the party or parties of the
agreement by register post with a copy of it to the director.
(9) After informing the cancelling through registered post as per sub section (8) above, the
divisional engineer should take legal action as per sub section 26(8) of the statute against the relevant
person or persons considering the construction work relevant to the agreement as an unauthorized
construction.
19. (1) If any land or building beloging to the provincial department of roads is used, resided or
construct buildings or holding the ownership without any nor table is written permission of the secretary
by any person, persons or institutions, should be considered as unauthorized inhabitants. And the director
and the divisional engineer would be responsible for reclaim lands land act (regaining the ownership) No.
7 of 1979, to the Provincial Road Department.
(2) The secretary may approve the handing over of a land or building to the particular divisional
secretary where the land or building situated upon the recommendation of the director stating that
encroached land or building by a person of persons or institutes as per subsection (1) above would not be
used for any further road development activity. However such a handing area should be done on the
consent of the provincial cabinet and the governor.
(3) Estimating recompenses for matters stated in section 29 of the statute should be done according
to the 11th order in this statute.
20. (1) When any person or institution hand done any harm to a provincial road or it’s construction
stated in section 30 of the statute, it would be legal to take action as mentioned in sub section 31(1) and
31(2) of the statute when such a harm is taken place, that damage and a fine for it should be charged from
the persons responsible for it.
(2) The director should take steps to appoint a committee to estimate any loss and a fine before
estimating any loss or charging fine as per above sub section (1).
(3) The divisional engineer must notify the loss and the fine, estimated by the committee stated in
sub section (2) above through registered post to the party or parties responsible for it. And it should be
notified that this fine should be paid in cash and 30 days from the date of the notice should be allocated.
(4) If the parties do not take steps to act according to the notice stated in sub section (3) above the
director should take legal action against them to charge the amount and other expenses held by the
government and the provincial council over losses incurred.
(5) The fine should be 25% of the estimated loss.
Encroaching
lands and
buildings.
Damages done
to roads.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
21. (1) The divisional engineer is entrusted to close or ban transport in any provincial road or a
part of it temporally as per subsection (31(3)) of the statute for some period decided by the divisional
engineer for preparation, for development or at any dangerous situation. It is needed to notify the public
at least 7 days prior to such closing or banning by written notices by the divisional engineer.
(2) When publishing such a notice as per sub section (1) above, the divisional engineer should
take steps to exhibit copies of it at the starting point ending point of that road and at roads attached to that
road, suitably.
(3) It is necessary to send copies of that notice to government institutions and to the Grama
Niladharis of the particular Grama Niladhari Divisions the road runs through.
(4) The following facts should be included in such a notice stated as per sub section (1) above.
(a) Details of the road or the part of it from which point to which point it would be closed.
(b) Reasons for closing.
(c) Date and time of the closing begins.
(d) Date and time of the end of closing.
(e) Details of alternative roads that can be used.
(5) If the period of time for the closing is to be extended, the instructions stated in sub section (2),
(3), (4) above should be repeated.
(6) However in an emergency situation the closure of a road or a part of it should not be relevant
to notify the public 7 days earlier.
22. When any damaging is done to a road by any person or institution and when the divisional
engineer or his authorized officers have taken action to prevent it by action according to section 33 of the
statute, the relevant expenditure occurred and the fine should be calculated by the divisional engineer, and
before taking steps to charge that amount from the relevant person the consent for it should be taken from
the director when the consent is been taken, it is the responsibility of the divisional engineer to follow the
procedures stated in sub section 20 (3), 20 (4) and 20 (5) above to charge that amount.
23. Interpretation :—
“Director” : Officer appointed by the Governor of Uva province as “The director
of roads of Uva province” or the person authorized by the particular
officer.
“Minister” : The minister in charge of the subject of road development in the
provincial council of Uva.
“Land Acquisition Act” : Land acquisition act (460th authority)
“Provincial Department
of Roads : Provincial Department of Roads of the Uva provincial council.
“Provincial road” : Any road, estate road, canal or river declared as a provincial road
published under the Uva Provincial Roads statute No. 02 of 2010,
by the minister in charge of the subject of road development in the
provincial council of Uva.
“The Statute” : Uva Provincial Roads Statute No. 02 of 2010.
Actions against
the damages
done to roads.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
8A
“Divisional engineer” : The divisional engineer stated in the Uva Provincial Roads Statute
No. 02 of 2010 or his authorized officer.
“Registration number
 of a road” : The number stated to identify any road in the gazette notification
when declaring any road as a provincial council road by the minister.
“Constructions related
 to a road” : Any bridge, culvert, bund side bund, drain, canal hand fence foot-
bridge cause way, hole, tunnel, guard stone, boundary post, wall,
fence, culvert post, blockage, shelter, post, board, gutter, pipe or a
construction to drain water, building or any other construction
constructed on, beside, in connection of a road or for the protection,
maintenance, stability of a road.
“Harm done to roads” : Harassments stated in section 32 of Uva provincial roads statute
No. 02 of 2010.
“Damages done to roads” Damages stated in section 3 of Uva provincial roads statute No. 02
of 2010.
“Secretary” : The secretary of the ministry in charge of the road development in
the Uva Province Provincial Council or his officially authorized
person.
“Developing area” : An area declared by the minister as per sub section 6 (1) of the
Road statute of Uva Province Provincial Council statute No. 02 of
2010.
24. Inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil or English text in this orders the Sinhala text should
prevail.
Inconsistency
between the
Sinhala, Tamil,
English text.
UV A   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Uva Provincial Co-operative Employees’ Commission Statute Bearing No. 04 of 2010
I, hereby inform that below mentioned regulations are approved by me, Ratnayake Mudiyanselage Kumarasiri Ratnayake, the
Minister of Road Development, Housing, Water Supply, Consumer Affairs and Co-operative and Food Supply and Distribution,
according to the powers entrusted to me by the section 23 and 28 of the statute of the Uva Provincial Co-operative Employees’
Commission bearing No. 04 of 2010.
R. M. K
UMARASIRI RA TNAY AKE,
Minister in charge of Road Development, Housing,
Water Supply, Consumer Affairs and
Co-operatives and Food Supply and Distributions,
Uva Province Provincial Council.
27th June, 2013,
At the office of the Minister,
R. H. Gunawardene Mawatha,
Badulla.
09-606/1

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
REGULATION COMPILED UNDER THE CO-OPERATIVE EMPLOYEES COMMISSION STATUTE OF
UV A PROVINCE NO. 04 OF 2010
CHAPTER  I
GENERAL
1. This Regulation is known as Uva Provincial Employees Commission Regulation.
2. Except the co-operative society which mentioned by the Minister under Section 11(13) of Uva Provincial Co-
operative Commission Statute bearing No. 04 of 2010 referred as “Statute” hereinafter, all the other Co-operative Society in
the province shall be controlled by this Regulation and the ordinance and regulation of imposes time to time by Employees
commission of Uva Provincial council hereinafter referred as “The Commission”.
3. In the relevant period any employee obtain any salary or other payments from the fund of a Co-operative Society
should be deemed as a that said employee’s employer, the employees as such should be deemed as Co-operative employees
under this Regulation.
4. Any matters that whatsoever arise related to this Regulation, the decision of the Uva Provincial Employees
commission is the final.
5. In accordance to the Sub section 11(12) of this Statute, one thousand and five hundred Rupees should be paid for
each appeal before proceed all the appeal inspection.
C
HAPTER  II
PROCEDURES OF RECRUITING AND APPOINTING AND APPOINTMENTS
6. General Conditions :
(1) Recruitments of new employees for Co-operative Societies, promotions and appointments should be done
according to the statute of the commission, present code of regulations of the connected Co-operative
employees’ commission and the amendments done frequently.
(2) Appointments or promotions should be done only Approved number of employees (Human power
assessment) for the post creating new posts and grades of employees those who can be in a class are the
duties of the commissioner of the Co-operative development.
(3) Powers for fixing up proper salaries wages, claims bonus and rewards, all matters relevant to promotions and
making service conditions are belong to the commission.
(4) Identifying vacancies :
(a) Employees who have been interdicted.
(b) Employees who are on compulsory leave.
(c) Employees who have forwarded an appeal for re-employment to the co-operative employees
commission or a request to the labour tribunal or an appeal to any other court against a dismission of
employees.
(d) Employees who have got approved no pay leave and emigrated from the island for abroad service or
released temporarily for educational activities relevant to their posts.
(e) Employees who are selected for provincial council.
(f) Employees who are appointed to perform duties in a post.

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
10A
(5) The way of arising vacancy for a post is shown below.
(i) When a post not filled which is approved by the commissioner of co-operative development and
mentioned in the human power assessment.
(ii) When a person died or res igned his post (While he was in service)
(iii) When a person was dismissed from service of the society and last his right to get his post back, after
completion of all the legal actions taken by him.
(iv) When a person is being appointed to perform duties as to the internal promotion and made it permanent
instead of another person is considered as dismissed or has given up his post and not taken any
action to get his post back within the proper period.
7. Publishing vacancies :
(1) Except for an appointment of an emloyee whoever get a salary on piece rate basis or on a circumstance an
employee of the society is appointed to perform duties of another post, all other vacancies in the staff of the
co-operative society’s should be filled by calling applications according to the regulations of the commission
in the staff of the co-operative shops of the society inclusively the salary scale, qualifications and other
details and all applications internally.
(2) When vacancies arise for one or more posts, firstly a public notice should be exhibited at the office, all the
co-operative shops of the society inclusively the salary scale, qualifications and other details and call
applications internally.
(3) If ensured that there are no persons having qualifications according to the section 02 in the particular area
when the Society located according to the section 02 above, a public notice should be published in a Daily
News Paper with the information. In addition these notices should be exhibited in the offices of the District
Co-operative society Offices. Also the electronic media is applicable.
(4) In the event there aren’t qualified persons in the area where the society located in accordance to the Section
(3) above, a public advertisement should be made in a daily newspaper including the information. In addition
to the particular notification, should be exhibited at places like the office of the society and as well as
electronic Medias too could be utilized for the purpose.
(5) Selection of qualified candidates could be done through an examination or an interview or by the both ways
in accordance with the rules regulations of the commission from the applications received as to the
advertisement published.
(6) Anyhow, the commission can call applications by public advertisements and it can hold examinations for
recruitment in occasions the commission considers that it is suitable or on a request of a society or on the
self expectation.
(7) While sending applications for vacancies to be filled in a co-operative society, it should be mentioned in the
advertisement that if it is an application from a person who works in another co-operative society, he/she has
to send the application through the relevant society.
(8) Likewise, it should be mentioned in the same advertisement any person whoever has sent application
directly by him/her when he/she works in another society will be caused to lose the job, if found even after
selected for recruitment.
(9) The closing date of applications should be at least after two weeks from the date of advertisement enable to
produce same.
(10) Sufficient copies of notification and application should be prepared if notified that applications would be
provided by the society, it seem the way of obtaining applications should be mentioned in the notification
it seem.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
8. Obtaining prior approval of the commission for procedures of recrtuiment, appointing of interview board and
appointments :
(1) The post, apportunities which mentioned in the Section 6(4) are not considered as a post, thus the society
should enforce an appropriate alternative arrangements to cover the works relevant to.
(2) While recruiting for a post, qualifications, age limit, salary, allowances and other conditions are decided by
the commission and recruitment should be done in accordance with them.
(3) While recruiting for a post the commission shall carry out and the procedures mentioned in the code of
regulations for recruitment. An interview board should be appointed for the selection of qualified candidates
and recommendation of the board also should be obtained definitely.
(4) Interview Board :
(a) At least three members or not exceeding five members should be appointed for an Interview board. An
inerview board should be consisted five Executive grade persons and Three from operational and
assisting grades.
(5) Contents of the interview board
(a) The following members should be appointed for the interview board for posts of managers and
evaluation officers.
(i) Chairman or vice-chairman of the society.
(ii) A member of the board of directors.
(iii) Two zonal officers who are representing the commissioner of co-operative development.
(iv) An exec utive officer of (Government of state co-operative/statutory board/co-operative society)
an external establishment that has a vocational knowlege relevant to the vacant post.
(b) Contents of the interview board should be below mentioned to select the operational Grade and
assisting grades.
(i) Chairman or vice-chairman of the society.
(ii) A representative of the commissioner of co-operative development.
(iii) A chief executive officer of the society.
(6) Submitting to the commission to get approval for permanent appointments.
Before appointing for a permanent post, qualifications and other details of candidates who would be appointed,
to be submitted to the commission and get the prior approval of the same. And the effective date of
appointment also should be informed to the commission in accordance with the circumstance, the commission
can decide the effective date of the appointment.
(a) Date of appointment.
On the same day decided by the appointing authority, the appointment should be assumed. It is considered
as the date of appointment. Even though if any appointee could not assume duty on the decided date, he/
she must inform it to the appointing authority immediately. As to that, on whatever later date he/she
assumed duty should be considered as the effective date of Appointment. (According to this, in the personal
file of the appoint a note should be placed? The date of appointment in the appointment letter is changed”)
(b) Persons who are under 18 and above 45 years old should not be recruited for the service of a co-
operative society. Even though, the maximum age limit not applicable for a person who is occupied in
the co-operative service.

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
12A
(c) The age limit mentioned in the section (b) above will be effected for each employee whoever is
recruited temporary and permanent service.
(7) The way of obtaining prior approval from the commission for recruitment of employees.
(a) While recruiting employees for a co-operative society, relevant documents should be prepared and
submitted to the commission according to the section (d) below.
(b) On the occasion of submitting the relevant documents as above, the details shown in the section (d)
also should be submitted by the manager of the society. While recruiting a manager the details should
be submitted by the chairman.
(c) All relevant documents should be filed in the order of their dates and submitted. Also contents should
be submitted with serial numbers.
(d) These documents should be prepared in the order below and sent by registered post.
(i) Contents
(ii) Copy of an approval cadre
(iii) Copy of the notification of calling applications.
(iv) Document of qualifications of all applications those who are interviewed.
(v) Name list of qualified applicants.
(vi) Names and positions, members of the interview board (Board of selection)
(vii) Method followed while giving marks.
(viii) Method of giving marks if any written examination or practical test held.
(ix) Names and occupations of examiners of answer scripts if any examination held for recruitment.
(x) Marks list of candidates appeared for written or practical examination, final marks list of the
written or practical examination and all applications received (should be kept safely by the
society enable to produce for the inspection of the answer script commission if necessary.)
(xi) Recommendation of the interview board.
(xii) An abstract of the executive committee decision.
(8) The following details should be forwarded along with the document mentioned above.
(a) How the vacancy formed
Ex ample : - By retirement, resignation interdiction, leaving off the service and death.
(b) If recruited for a newly created post, a copy of the cadre certified by the commissioner of co-operative
development.
(c) Inspecting the post held service stations and addresses and also the period of service mentioned in
the certificates of service experience and assure they are correct to confirm service experience of
applicants is a responsibility of the society.
(d) In addition to the section (c) above it is a responsibility of the society that verifying the results from
institutions those issued certificates regarding education qualifications of applicants,
(Example :- Department of examination, Universities, Technical colleges) the inspection like this should
be done before making permanent to the post compulsorily.
(f) According to the conditions mentioned in sections (c) and (d) above a verification certificate of the
chairman of the society connected with qualifications of selected applicants should be included along
with the recommendations of him.

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
(9) Probation Period
(1) An employee who recruited newly for a permanent position shall be subjected two years probation
period. A permanent employee who shall be recruited to another permanent position should be subjected
to a six month of probation period.
(2) Anticipation of the period of probation is that appointed person has to be ensured the liabiities
mentioned in the appointment letter such as behavior, efficiency and whether apt person to be a
Permanent employee. If the person has fulfilled the expected level in efficiency and diligence, the letter
of permanent appointment shall be given.
(3) The person shall be permanent from the day of appointment commenced. Written notice should be
sent to the employee confirming the permanent.
(4) Terminating the service in the probation period.
The appointing officer may terminate the service at any time in the probationary period, if found that
service is unsatisfactory in the period of probation. However written notices have to be sent at least
in three occasions to the probationer as that he is not served in satisfied manner to be permanent.
(5) The person who under probation period should be evaluated at least twice a year. The monitoring
officer should take necessary steps to notify the relevant opinion in written. The opinion should be
filed in the relevant personal file. The service evaluation model is shown in appendix of No. 02.
(6) Where an permanent employee appointed subject to a probation period and the service in the probation
is conducted in satisfying manner, should be permanent., if the service is unsatified in the same period,
that employee whould be sent back to the post or grade what he had borne earlier.
(7) Recruiting without the approval of the commission. If any society recruits inconsistent to the provisions
which prescribed by the co-operative employee commission, that deem to be considered as punishable
offence under the Statute of that society of employee commission. If any disqualified appointed as
inconsistent to the provisions of prescribed by the co-operative employee commission, the employee
commission has the power to give order terminate any who appointed. If any occasion that society
failed to terminate the person within 02 weeks from the order delivered, that said appointed person
would be nullified as being an employee. The salary or compensation if, any paid to his service should
be levied by the committee which held over further over or from a answerable person. In case as such,
the commission has the right take legal action against the society.
(10) Recruiting a co-operative employee to another co-operative society.
(1) When  calling application to fill the vacancies by the co-operative society and if other co-operative
employees apply, they should apply through the current co-operative society. Applications which
haven’t sent as that shouldn’t be considered in any ground. If any employee selected by the application,
the society should mention the consent of releasing, if so since when, and the bond remains on his
concern etc, should be mentioned by the society. At the same time, a person who confronts to a
disciplinary inquiry or preparing to, shall not be recommended to be released for a post of the other
society.
(2) However, when forwarding an application of an employee by the society, the society should
acknowledge the well-being of employee to and pave opportunity to forward applicaton.
(3) If any co-operative employee qualified for a post of another, the said society should get approval of
the commission before appoint the relevant person. A fair time period should be deemed to assume the
appointment.

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
14A
(4) It is necessary that claim of the service period of previous society shall not be entitled in the new
society and that new society is not liable for the salary of previous post when prescribing salary for
the post going to be appointed.
(5) If any society need to recruit a person for executive post on a priority of service experience and if there
is a hesitation that what salary should be kept initially, the decision should be taken by inquiring the
commission before appoint the person.
(6) If any secret report has to be obtained from the previous society before provide an appointment or to
be permanent at least, arrangements should be made an appeal to co-operative commission to bring in
the report as soon as possible to do so.
(7) The employees who are categorized mentioned below shall not be appointed as temporary, contract or
permanent basis in any circumstances.
(a) Suspended employees
(b) Employees had sent as compulsory leave
(c) Terminated employees
(d) Employees who had forwarded any demand or appeal to the court, labour tribunal or co-operative
employees’ commission on their service concern.
(e) Employees who deserted their post
(f) Punished for financial fraud, briber or any criminal offence
(g) Employees who resigned from any society.
(11) Permanent and temporary employees
(1) Permanent employees
According to the power deemed under the statute of the co-operative employees’ commission of Uva
Province, the number of the employees and their grades and classes are determined by the commissioner
of the co-operative development. The prescription shall be amendment time to time according to the
requirement of the society. The number of the employees for each society shall be prescribed in
accordance to the workforce evaluation of the society.
For any post which approved in the work force evaluation of co-operative employees commission as
mentioned above, the employees appointed for any permanent post by the prior approval of the co-
operative commission shall be deemed as permanent employee of that society.
(2) Temporary employees
A co-operative society may obtain service of an expert or a specialist for a precise period to enhance
the efficiency of a co-operative society or as such as casual or daily or paying on piece Rate - payment
be recruited. The employees who are recruited as such reckoned as temporary employees.
(a) Appointing on agreement basis
(i) Service of an expert or a specialist may obtain by a society for certain perid a prescribed
concurrence ; the prior approval of the commission should be obtained.
(ii) Service of an expert or a specialist mean that who has the special knowledge about the
subject concern and works on the objective of enhancing the efficiency of the society and
who is capable to guide to a project or special program with the active participation. (the
employees who are utilized for the necessary operation to run the society shall not include
to this category)

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
(iii) These types of persons should be recruited under one year agreement basis. The said
agreement expires within the period of chartered and the agreement revokes, his service
shall not be obtained further in the period of revoked. However the agreement period may
be extended with prior approval of the commission. That requisition should be forwarded
with the appreciation report of the relevant person and the report with details of the hindrance
of recruiting a permanent employee, to be forwarded to the commission, if the relevant post
is an approval post of work force evaluation.
(iv) Service of an expert or a specialist may be obtained from exterior, only if there isn’t any to
provide a special service as such among the permanent staff. If there is any employee,
arrangments should be made to fulfill the anticipated works by him.
(v) The details and conditions which should be included in the relevant agreement are shown
in the 07th appendix of this regulation.
(b) Appointing on casual basis
(i) The employees may be appointed on casual basis or daily wages or piece-Rate payments
for a certain period to run the co-operative society efficiently and diligently.
(ii) Casual mean, an employee is recruited on temporary basis until the permanent employee to
be recruited for the post to fulfill the vacant which mentioned in the work force evaluation,
mean for a specific period to prevent from exhausting the efficinecy of the society due to the
vacant position which mentioned in the approved work force evaluation of co-operative
development commission.
(iii) However, if it is not included in the work force evaluation, and if there is requirement raised
to appoint for any work for the society, an employee can be appointed until include in work
force evaluation by co-operative development commission.
(iv) Approval of the work force evaluation should be done by the co-operative development
commission prescribing the post, qualification and salary scale for the post which to be
included in the work force evaluation as mentioned in the above section III, prior approval
should be obtained from the co-operative development commission to appoint and
necessary steps should be taken by the society.
(v) The service period of a casual employee should maximum of six months. In between this
period, a qualified person should be selected through following recruiting procedures.
(vi) Although the recruitment may casual basis, the qualification should be consistent as
prescribed for permanent.
(vii) In the occasion of calling application for permanent post, the casual employee who serves
at that time in the society may apply as external employee, if he included the casual service
period of the current society, that service period of the particular society should be omitted
when counting the experience. However if there isn’t any experienced person as such that
society expected level among the applicants and qualification of the casual employee is
enough to be appointed, the casual service period can be counted for his service.
(viii) Unless on a special reason of the commission, if a casual employee selected to appoint for
a post of permanent, he should be appointed by omitting his casual service period. In
accodance he cannot claim the priviledge for the casual period.

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
16A
(ix) When utilizing the casual employee, should not create hope of permanent to them. It should
be stated clearly in the appointment letter. Thereafter for casual appointment should be
ended as soon as the requirement of the society completed. The points what should be
included in the appointment letter shown in the regulation No. 06.
(x) It is compulsory to get the approval of the commission to extend the casual period by
providing reasons.
(c) Employees recruit on daily wages basis
(i) The employees who are utilized for emergency requirement for day today activities in the
society on Daily wages basis are considered as daily wages employee.
(ii) Generally these kinds of employees are required for operation grade services. Should not
create a hope of permanent appointment ever. Therefore their service should be terminated
as soon as the requirement is over.
(iii) The relevant daily wages should be calculated by dividing the salary of permanent employee
of the same position by 30. The payments of the daily wages should not enter in the general
salary register in any circumstances.
(d) Recruitment of paying on piece rate
The employees utilized on Piece Rate rate are paid by calculating the number of pieces completed
and they should be terminated as soon as the requirement over.
12. Appointment letter
(1) Appointment letter for a permanent appointment.
The authorizer should issue an appointment letter to all the persons that who are going to be permanent,
which mentioning the terms and conditions of each person. The relevant duty list should be given
without delay as soon as assuming duty. The model appointment letter shown in the regulation
appendix No. 03.
13. Acting appointment
(1) If any hindrance shown in the operation activities of society due to a vacant position, that position
should be filled as soon as possible. However, it may get some time to filled teh vacant by following
the prescribed procedures, a qualified permanent employee can be appointed to act for the post until
the said vacant to be filled.
(2) It is not compulsory to appoint a person for a vacant position as soon as vacant. If share the duty of
this vacant position to who assumes less duty and running the society in an efficient manner is a
benefit to the society. However it is a duty of a committee to follow appropriate steps on paying
attention the nature of the duty and liability of the vacant.
(3) The person who appointed should be qualified for the post and, if there are number of officers hold the
same qualification, the senior should be appointed as acting.
(4) The acting post of any should be limited for six months of period, a qualified person should be
appointed in between this period. If any officer shall serve exceeding this time period, teh approval of
the commission should be obtained by stating the effective valued reason.

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
(5) Calculating the Acting wages
(a) If any holds a acting higher position in addition to the duty of the permanent position, he should
be paid (1/4), of the starting salary of the acting post he holds in addition to the permanent post.
(b) If any employee engaged only in full time duty with working in the permanent position he should
be paid (1/2), of the starting salary of the permanent post he holds with all the salary increment
which he earned from the permanent position.
(c) When paying under mentioned above 1.8.5(a) and (b), all payments which shall be paid on the
basis to the relevant permanent post of acting he holds.
(d) Acting salary should be paid, only if worked more than a month in the acting position.
14. Medical Examination
A person who is selected for a permanent position in a society, medical examine should be done by a
government hospital (or a Co-operative Hospital) and a certificate should submitted which prepared in
accordance to Health 169 Format. (These formats can be obtained from the Government press)
(1) The objective of this examine is to certify that the person who shall be appointed for a permanent
position from probation is being in an appropriate physical condition and work in any area. Therefore
the person who obtained an appointment letter should be forwarded to medical test before exceeding
03 months since the day he obtained the appointment and the relevant medical report should be
obtained by the health 169 format. The society may grant 03 half days leave with salary.
(2) If the medical report reveals that person selected is inapt for the post, should be informed to the
person by a written notice and the service should be terminated, but the payments should be paid for
the period of his service.
(3) The fee what levied by the hospital should be borne by the appointee.
15. Grading and promoting the positions
(1) In accordance with grading and promoting to a post and regarding adjustments of salary, circulars
would be released time to time.
(2) posts are graded into 10 levels such as shown below through the circular issued already bearing no.
14/2009 (1) stated therein and salary scales and qualifications relevant to posts in cooperative societies
by the commission.
(a) Special management level 1 : 1
(b) Special management level 1 : 2
(c) Senior management level  2 : 1
(d) Senior management level  2 : 2
(e) Medium management level  3 : 1
(f) Medium management level  3 : 2
(g) Medium management level  3 : 3
(h) General management level  4 : 1
(i) General management level  4 : 2
(j) General management level  4 : 3
(3) It is a duty of committee to deem opportunities to make aware the procedures of promotion to the
employees.

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
18A
16. Employees bond
(1) The society may prescribe bond to deposit for any employee that who is in-charge of the assets of the
co-operative society or Paying on behalf of the society or any employee approving payments. The
deposits should not be invested for business purpose of the society. The money should be deposited
in a fixed deposit account under the name of the society and let to be added interests. If not the interest
should be paid to the employee annually on employee’s discretion.
(2) The bond in cash what prescribed should not be exceeded five times of that employee’s salary.
(3) The bond may be paid by part payments and the commission may make rules by prescribing the
conditions and occasions which effect in deduction of the employee’s salary.
(4) When any co-operative society notifies to any employee to deposit a bond in addition to the bond,
the bond may be paid by mortgaging a property or by a government affiliated insurance corporation or
by a trustworthy insurance policy which should approved by the commission.
(5) If any premium has to be paid a bond by the employee, that should be paid by the relevant employee.
17. Annual Bonus
(1) A co-operative society may paid a annual bonus to the employee by an amount of equal to after
reserving the contribution money by 20%, such as accumulated amount from net profit, co-operative
fund, Employees development welfare fund or equal to the gross salary of a month or more less
amount in both, may paid.
(2) If any occasion that profit which can be shared is 20%, for pay an annual bonus, the annual bonus
should be equal, to the average salary of employee what earns in a year.
C
HAPTER  III
PERIOD OF SERVICE AND HOLIDAYS
18. General
(1) The working hours of a co-operative employee should be 08 hours except the lunch hour. He should
presence to work before 1/2 hour to open the office by the office assistants and leave after 1/2 hour of
closing office. The working hours of a watcher and driver are 12 hours. Overtime shall be paid after 09 hours
of working.
(2) The co-operative employees are entitled to 07 days of casual leave and 14 days of annual leave. In addition,
entitled to the privilege of holidays as such as week holidays, government approval full moon holidays,
mercantile holidays, international co-operative holiday, lieu leave, unclaimed leave, Maternity leave, infections
holiday, Leave for holiday in abroad, short leave etc.
(3) An employee of a co-operative society is entitled to less than 1 1/2 days leave per week. However the leave
is to be claimed unless he worked for 28 hours except over time in the relevant week.
(4) Any employee failed to report for the work due to an unavoidable circumstance, the employee should inform
to the immediate zonal staff or the leave should be approved by the approving officer by over the phone or
telegram.

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
(5) The leave approving authorizer is liable to make arrangements to approve the leave which shouldn’t be an
obstacle to the service of the society.
(6) The leave approving officer has the right to approve leave or not and it shall be done on the requirement of
the service. “Leave” mean it is a privilege of employee not an employee’s right.
(7) Any employee reported for work on the following day without informing his absence of previous day, he has
to be asked to give explanation immediately. In an occasion, acceptable reason has not been given no pay
leave could be marked for his absence or to punish slightly or it should be considered when giving promotion,
salary increment, loan facilities and and other advantages of an employee who does such thing in writing.
Likewise, according to the circumstance a notice could be issued considering as he/she left the post.
19. Casual Leave
(1) Casual leave will be granted in an occasion that an employee is unable to attend duty on a reason could not
be avoided.
(2) A co-operative employee can obtain not more than six days leave at a time out of 07 casual leave he/she has
the right to get for the whole year.
(3) Daily wages should be paid for the remaining casual holidays of 07 days which the employee entitled. The
remaining leave cannot be had in the next year or lieu.
(4) The relevant officer should take care to prevent of approving annual holiday by adding/lieu with half
payment leave except in a special occasions.
(5) First appointment employee may gets casual leave once in two months in the year joined.
20. Annual Leave
(1) Annual leave may be obtained on a medical certificate of a registered medical officer where had treatment for
said illness, when unable to report for work more than 02 days due to illness or an annual leave may obtained
by a Medical Certificate which issued by a Medical Practitioner who registered under Medical Ordinance or
registered under Ayurvedic Ordinance.
(2) The annual leave entitled for the first year as mentioned below.
14 days leave will be granted, if started to serve on 01st of April, 10 days if stated on July 01st 07 days if
started on before October 01st and 04 days if started after October.
(3) When contravened the entitle annual leave, the remaining consequent 02 years leave may be obtained on
medical certificate of Government medical officer.
(4) The leave approved by on a medical certificate which shown above section 3 shall be deemed as leave with
salary.
21. Lieu Leave
(1) If an employee utilized for service on essential purpose, on a declared holiday, he is liable to have a leave in
any other day instead. That leave known as lieu holiday.
(2) As such, If any woks 1/2 day, he may claim 1/2 lieu leave.
(3) A lieu leave or over time may claim for working on a full day on holiday instead and executive may be claimed
a day wage.

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
20A
(4) Any employee entitled to have the lieu holiday within the year acquired, the lieu leave revoke in the same
year.
If any claim the lieu leave, may not have over time or salary on the particular date, if claim over time or daily
wages, may not entitled to claim the lieu holiday. The employee who works in the full moon day is not entitled
to have a lieu leave, may entitled to have a over time or daily wages instead.
(5) The lieu leave may entitle to who finished with casual leave or with annual leave or both of the leave.
However the lieu leave is not entitled with any leave spending in abroad.
22. Half wages Leave
(1) If any sickly employee finished his casual, annual, expired leave and he required leave, he may have approved
half wages leave on a medical certificate of a government hospital.
(2) However the half wages leave should be maximized for three months at once.
(3) Although the leave of half wages is over as mentioned section 2 : 5 : 2 above and leave required furthermore,
leave can be obtained for maximum 06 months on a medical certificate of a government hospital.
(4) The leave comes under half wages period and all other leave may deem as leave with pay wages.
(5) If any employee has had wages leave with wages, when counting his period of service, his half wages leave
period should be added to his service period. No pay leave should not be entered to the service period.
23. Duty Leave
(1) When approving the duty leave, has to take notice to the nature of the duty of the relevant officer, how that
leave effect the society and the nature of duty etc, should be paid attention when approving leave.
(2) Duty leave may granted for special occasions,
Duty leave may grant for internal activities of the society by approval of the committee and duty leave may
granted in the occasion mentioned below.
(a) To be in the jury,
(b) To be a witness for the present society on a call of the court or other claim proceedings.
(c) To be present as a witness for a soceity where he served in past. (Travelling fare shall be paid from the
past society)
(3) The duty leave may approved to the society employee that who appea as a custodial officer for the accuse
in a disciplinary examination. The said duty leave may approve, subject to three days of month. However in
a special occasion that commission prescribed the date of that disciplinary examination has to be finished is
not applicable for this maximum dates.
(4) Duty leave may granted to a relevant employee for a cll of a subject minister of co-operative, Co-operative
Ministry of Uva Province, Co-operative employees commission, Co-operative development department, or
any government institutions, state corporation, Constitutional Board, State Bank, or any related affairs of
the co-operative society or to the representatives of employees who shall participate to the discussion with
the administrative authority on a dispute of co-operative society. However the details of the calls should be
ensured before approve the duty leave and to be ensured whether had participated to the particular duty.
(5) One day duty leave may grant to participate in a general meeting of his union as a member of the employees
union, subject to the emergency leave.

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
24. Maternity Leave
(1) The maid employees of co-operative are entitled to have maternity leave for 84 days with full payments. The
confinement without legal marriage is not applicable for this maternity leave.
(2) The mercantile leave, weekend leave, or leave which substitute for weekend leave days should not included
when counting the maternity leave.
(3) If she delivered a dead or an embryo figure in her confinement, she is entitled to 84 days maternity leave with
pay. This should be confirmed by medical certificate)
(4) The confinement should be informed to the relevant society within a week to claim the maternity leave as
said above. She should inform the number of children what he she had on the day of confinement.
(5) The co-operative society should allow the confinements to leave before half an hour from the duty after 05
months until she claims the leave, also should be allowed to report to work in half an hour late and to leave
half an hour in time. The Confinement should be certified by a certificate of government hospital.
(6) When reporting for work after 84 days of with pay maternity leave, she is entitled for one hour leave to feed
her child until 05 months completion.
(7) The mother should not be engaged to any risk duties which harm the mother or the child before of after three
months and she shouldn’t be called for any duty from 14 days of delivery.
(8) The confinement maid who is under maternity leave should not suspend without calling to work or terminate
from the service.
(9) If requested, after the maternity leave with pay as mentined section 2 : 7 : 1 above, 84 days leave may be
granted on half wages pay to look after the child and if requested to grant no pay leaves, may grant 84 days
leave. The additional mercantile holiday and weeked holidays shall include to the maternity leave.
25. No Pay Leave
(1) No pay leave may grant to the employees who are elected as a member of Provincial council / Local
government/ Municipal Council.
(a) Leave with full salary may granted to the employees who are elected as a member of Provincial council/
Local government / Muncicipal Council on subject to the emergency service of co-operative, to
participate in the council meetings.
(b) If any co-operative employee is selected as a member a Provincial Council, he may release to serve as
a full time until he is a member in the Provincial Council.
If released as such, that post should not be deemed as vacant, appropriate alternative should be made by
the society to cover the duty.
2. No pay leaves for foreign employment
(a) Permanent employee of a Co-operative society may obtain no pay leave for foreign employment and
he should follow the procedure mentioned below.
(b) The Committee should approve the foreign employment leave and the below mentioned procedures
should be followed.
(i) Applications should be forwarded by the person who required leave for foreign employment.
(ii) Confirmation documents should be submitted, mentioning the availability of the vacant, name
of the occupation, name of the country, as selected for the post and duration.
11 — PG 1748

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
22A
(iii) If any loan or any fund to be levied by the applicant, that loan should be settled before approve
the leave. If not, a permanent employees should appear as bond to pay the loan instead. Otherwise
the committee should be satisfied on finding a certain way or any to recover the loan.
(iv) The committee should be watchful whether the applicant has any disciplinary inquiry and any
factors ot do as such ? (Example : Accounting the stock by auditing) or who appear as a witness
on behalf of the society in a disciplinary examination or who bonded with the society under
essential service. (The employee should be free from these grounds)
(c) The duration of granting leave for foreign employment should be limited to 05 years
(d) The society should make arrangements to do continuously duty of the post when granting a long
leave to an employee.
(e) The society should get the local and addition the abroad address while approving foreign employment
leave.
(f) Any employee who had approved leave for an abroad employment failed to report to work after the
approved leave expired without submitting a proper reason, a letter should be sent by registered post
to him to report for work immediately.
(g) If he failed to report for work further more after a fair time have given to reply, a notice should be sent
to him notice as deemed deserted the post to the address (Local and Abroad) what he had given.
26. Short Leave
(1) Short leave may obtained for co-operative employee twice in a month as not exceeding 1 1/2 hour in an
occasion on any personal requirement.
(2) Short leave is not an employees’ right, therefore the authorizer of leave may approves or may disapproves in
accordance to the requirement of the society.
(3) The authorizer of leave should take care to take necessary steps to cover the said duty what he has to be
completed when granting a short leave to an employee.
(4) A separate register should be maintained for the short leaves of the employees. The following details should
be entered in the register, year of the register, month, date, name of the employee, duration of short leave,
reason for the leave, applicant’s signature and signature of the leave authorizer.
(5) That should be a document which may shows the short leave of each month of employees, erasing or
changing the details is deemed as a offence. The short leave register should be kept within the inspecting
officer’s possession.
27. Special leave for infections disease
(1) Co-operative employees may have special leave with pay for infectious disease. This special leave may claim
only the permanent employees of the co-operative society.
(2) This special leave with pay may claimed after completion the leave with pay under the general leave regulation.
(3) The Public Health Inspector of the division should aware that disease what that employee under gone is an
infectious disease and leave with pay should grant for the period of approval of District medical officer on
details of the duration required to be cured and duration of granting leave for a co-operative employee.
However, in an occasion that period of holiday had expired before three months, Leave with half pay may
grant subject to maximum three months afater 03 months.

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
(4) The employee may claim no pay leave afater completion half pay leave with under this special leave. If any
circumstance rose as such, the society should consider on the sake of the relevant employee, other employees,
society and society should appeal for recommendation.
28. Sudden accident Leave
(1) The committee may grant leave to a co-operative employee for an emergency accident leave for an injury
when engaged in a prescribed duty in a duty time which hasn’t taken place by his own mistake.
(2) The leave grants as such should reduce from his general leave, this leave should not be counted with any
leave entitle of employee and related to that.
(3) (a) The leave should grant on the recommendation of a medical certificate of a government hospital in all
occasions when granting a leave to an employee who met an accident as shown section 1 above.
(b) If employee had any fracture due to the accident and gets treatment from a native doctor and the
comittee satisfied that he is recovering, the committee may grant leave on that medical certificate. If the
leave days expire in 14 days in any occasion, leave may extended on the advice of the doctor further
in each 14 days at end of the leave.
(4) Emergency leave may grant for six months with pay on a certificate which issued by a government medical
officer, later may extended for next six months under half pay leave. An employee who got leave according
to the above 3 (b) the number of leave with pay should be counted by deducting the with pay leave of six
months leave which granted by this section.
(5) If any employee fallen to a serve condition by an accident shown section 1 above, the patient should be sent
to the examination board of the hospital doctors. On a recommendation of that, mean that committee should
take necessary steps as such as, whether the employee can serve or not, futher more to the society,
recommendation should be obtained about the nature of duty may assume to him, in accordance, the
committee should take decision either attached the service further more or his service shall be terminated.
Also should act according to the labor compensation ordinance and pay reimbursement.
29. Study Leave
(1) The education leave may grant with pay to the co-operative employee for a promotion to a upper grade from
his relevant post or a higher post or in a occasion of requiring training to develop skills or in a occasion that
commission prescribed a course to conduct. The educaton leave may grant only if the said education course
is required for the society affairs.
(2) The duration of the education leave should be the relevant study period. Leave shoud be granted for the
examination to the relevant course and the leave what the relevant institution prescribed should be deemed
as leave with pay. The employee should enter to an agreement with the society before participate to the
training, subject to the condition of working three years for advance management course and higher diploma
course and one year for the course of co-operative development certificate. If resign in advance, he employee
should pay to the society which that society had paid in the duration of the course and other payment not
exceeding 50% by cash.
(3) After the educational leave, a report of studied matters in the training and the manner of utilizing them to
achieve the expected goals of the soceity should be forwarded to the committee within two weeks.
30. Special leave to vote in a election
(1) Special leave may grant to a employee of cooperative society without deductin salary when require to cast
a vote in election as such as Presidency election, Parliament election, Provincial council election, Local
government election or referendum and it should be maximized for 4 hours.

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
24A
(2) The leave authorizer of the society should decided the leave according to the distance of the polling center
which prescribed from the service station. The leave may determine on the ground of distance (Hours and
Days). However this social leave should not exceed one day The employee should get leaves from his
personal leave if required more.
(3) The employee should submit a written request for this leave and the society should inform by an written
approval to the employee.
31. Leave for international co-operative day.
The day declares as International Co-operative day deemed as a leave with pay, the employee is entitled for
that.
C
HAPTER  IV
TRANSFER, REDUCING EMPLOYEES ADN GRANT COMPENSATION, RETIREMENT AND DESERTING POSTS
32. Transfer
(1) The co-operative employees are subject to the transfer. The transfer may take place on requirement of
service, administration principle, respected request or disciplinary reasons etc.
(2) The co-operative has the power to transfer any of its staff to another service station in the area. Unless on
a disciplinary reason, when transferred on a employee requirement or a occasion of enforced the transferring
principle or on duty requireent, should not make any disadvantage in wages or other when transferring. Also
the transfer should not affect his continuous service.
(3) The authorization of punishment transfer is with the committee after a regular disciplinary examination and
it has the power to transfer to any society in the area to lead the business activities.
(4) If transferred without a matter of disciplinary examination, an appeal may submit to the committee within 03
working days. Unless forwarding an appeal or in a occasion the appeal rejected or the employee never
reported to the prescribed working station for three days and not informed to the relevant station, a notice
issued as deserted the post under paragraph 3.6 of this treat to the said employee.
(5) Mutual Transfers
(a) If any employee of a Co-operative society requested a mutual transfer with who bears an equal post in
other society with the consent of both the employee in advance, the commission may have the power
to transfer them. Therefore in an occasion, the letters of consent of both the employees and the
concurrence of the society for them to be submitted to the commission and approval should be taken.
(b) If the co-operative society employee been an employee of another co-operative society on a mutual
transfer, the prime socity should send the personal file of the employee with the salary particulars to
the other society in the first week.
(c) In a mutual transfer, in a occasion, each employee had worked exceeding five years, to get relevant
gratuity or send or request to the society which counts that amount, the society should take steps in
accordance ;
(d) In any employee deposited any surety as abond to his prime society, if the society hasn’t to be
recovered from the employee, the prime society send the surety to the other society ;
(e) When a mutual transfer takes place in between two societies and in the event that employee had
served more than five years, the relevant gratuity can be obtained or it may send to the new society
where appointed adn requested too and the society should act in accordance ;

<!-- page 25 -->

25AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
(f) Where society are exists as covering multi areas in the province, demanding service stations as
employees’ consent where a large number of employees, the society may make a transfer policy on a
reasonable procedure. For this, the committee may get advice from the established transfer board
which represents the volume of employee.
(6) When a society area covers so many divisions of the province, the society can make a reasonable annual
transfer system while requesting for transfers to places where employees like.
33. Reducing employees and granting compensation
(1) Transfer the excess employees to another existing co-operative society may take place when amalgamating
the sales section to another section, making the transport or production to smaller, by selling or due to the
poor business affair. Also the co-operative society continuously confronting to lose, the society may
reduce the employee as an alternative step to run the society to reduce the cost.
(2) In a situation that employee should the removed otherwise reduced as shown paragraph (1) above, which
should be removed and what post should be eliminated shall be indentified by making a particulat procedure.
The number of employees should be reduced and eliminated as run further more without any difficulties, the
duties should be determined after removing the employees.
(3) It is necessary to appoint a committee by the society to recommend, make criteria to identify post what
should be eliminated and the employee be removed, the way of enforced and the time frame. This committee
should make to be participated the chairman or vice chairman, secretary, and General Manager, Accountant,
Representative Development Commission and other person who is apt to participate.
(4) When making criteria shown section 3 above, employees bearing equal posts, their qualifications, experience
& seniority, the date of appointed, date of birth, age, date of retired, who shall be remained to run the society
after reducing the employees, positiion of the labor market, if most of the employees rsigned by their own
consent and looking a compensaion, impact of run the society in that condition, financial situation and how
far the initial objective of society establishment has been accomplished etc., matter needed to be concerned.
(5) After the decision of eliminating the posts due to removing additional employees, the evaluation of work
force should be amended by the Co-operative Development Commission.
(6) After accomplishing the activities as above, the names of employees to be removed as deeming excess
employees, posts they borne and mentioning the time period of service with recommendation of Co-operative
Developent Commission should be get approved by submitting to commission at least 03 months in advance
of enforcing the removing from the service. After identifying the employees who would be removed, written
notice should be sent in time to them.
(7) Whilst submitting these details to the commission of removing the excess employees, a report of paying
compensation and gratuity should be sent with them.
(8) Grant of compensation :
Employees who lose their employment due to excess employees, the compensation should be paid by
counting the compensation under the ordinance mentioned below.
(a) The compensation shall be counted, on the base of basic salary without allowance on the day that
application assumed ;
(b) No compensation may demand, who are under disciplinary action or any dispute which not solved,
investigaion s or examinations in the labour tribunal and Co-operative Development Commission or in
a   court ;

<!-- page 26 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
26A
(c) The employees who should be completed a compulsorily service period under any bond with society,
if the employee has to be served further, the said bond should deduct from the compensation ;
(d) Any payments to be paid to the co-operative society by the employees that should be recovered from
the compensation ;
(e) The employee who resign under the scheme of compensation, in addition to the compensation, the
society management make arrangements and interfere to get the prescribed gratuity, employee’s
provident fund and employee’s trust fund of the employees ;
(f) The employee who resigned under the scheme of compensation shuld not be recruited again in any
circumstances under on an agreement of permanent or casual. Also the posts what eliminated should
not make available until one year or recruit any employee ;
(g) a payment qual to the monthly salary for full year of a employee of a co-operative society, equal to the
cost what the multiplaying into ten of the service period and deemed that employee retire in 60 years,
(1/2) month salary for each moth to be paid as a compensation by the co-operative society for the
number of years been completed. The compensation what pay to an employee should not exceed (Rs.
1,250,000.00) One Million and Two Hundred Fifty Thousan Rupees. However the  total amount of
compensation what should be paid to the should not exceed which generally tha Labour Department
imposet limit ;
(h) Monthly salary should be deemed without any extra payments. The salary what the employee had at
last and/or in accordance to the circular ordinance of the commission, the employee entitled to a
higher advantage salary.
Example :
(I) An employee known “A” joined to the service at the age of 25 and the monthly salary wa
20,000.00 (without allowance) on the date that application of compensation assuming ;
(II) The service period of his permanent employment is 15 years to the date (should be calculated on
percentage for months less than a year and for the days) ;
(III) Compensation for the service period in accordance 20000 x 15 = 3000,000 ;
(IV) The years to be completed at the age of 60 on the day the application assumed and the
compensation remains for 20 years ;
Salary for 1/2 month = Rs. 10,000 x number of years 20 = 200,000
(V) The compensation to be paid = Rs. 500,000
(300,000 + 200,000 = 500,000)
(i) The amount of compensation what should be paid on the employee, and the date be paid should be
informed by a notice to the employee bofore remove from his service ;
(j) When there is a program of a removing excess employee by the society and any employee applied to
resign his post willfully, this should not be an obstacle to him to claim his gratuity or compensation.
34. Retirement
(1) The retired age of co-operative employees should be 60 years, but the relevant employee should apply to the
committee in the age of 57 to extend his up to the age of 60. The committee should extend the service up to
60 by considering that relevant applicant is healthy in physically and mentally and his service is essential
and either the service of him should be extended. However the appeal of the applicant rejected, the applicant
may submit an appeal to the commission within 14 days. A copy of that appeal should be submitted to the
society and the decision of the commission is the final.

<!-- page 27 -->

27AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
(2) An employee who complete the retire age shuld inform at least three months before the date that he is going
to be retired.
(3) In any circumstances arose that employee failed to inform the retired age as above, his retired age though,
it should not be a reason to adhere in the service after 60 years of age.
(4)  If any employee who should be retired has been utilized in service as violating the above ordinance, all the
salary and payment for the extension period should be paid to the society by the persons that who are
responsible for them.
(5) If any employee required to be retired at the age of 55, the employee has the right to retire with concurrence
of the committee.
(6) When the employee completing the age of 55 to be retired, the date of retiring should be informed to the
committee of the society at least 03 months in advance.
35.  Complusory retirements on health condition
 The society may prescribe to retire, if the medical board decideds that employee in inept to serve further more on
bad health condition. However if there are any eave left to claim by the employee, should be retired from the day the leave
completed.
36. Resigning from the post
(1) If may not done by submitting a written notice to committee of the society through the closest monitoring
officer  of co-operative employee, can resign from list post by paying  a gross salary of a month to the
society.
(2) Until the acknowledge letter of resignation from the society, the employe should report for duty. If the
employee failed to report for work in a circumstance of rejected the resignation, the society should send a
notice as deeming that he has deserted the post since the day of absent.
(3) In a occasion that society has begun to take disciplinary action against the employee that who applied for
resignation or in a occasion revealed with reason to  do the same or entered to agreements or bond with the
society or failed to do the entitle duty, the resignation should not accepted. The society nay accept the
resignation after he has ben realeased from all.
(4) If any loan or other to be recovered by the society, they should be paid to the society. However if acceptable
arrangement has made to repay the loan on an agreement when concern a loan, the resignation may accept
subjected to it.
(5) The society should inform by a written notice to the employee as that resignation scknowledged. If there
any benefits to be paid to the employee before resignation, they should pay him.
(6) After the resingation of a employee akcnowledged, no room to be kept to demand for any post again.
However if recruited him for the same society in a regular way, the employee hasn’t have any rights to claim
any benefits of the previous service, he should be deemed as a new employee.
(7) After the acknowledgment of the resignation, if requested to with draw the resignation shall not deemed.

<!-- page 28 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
28A
37. Deserting the post
(1) If any employee failed a report for duty consecutivery three days without apply for a leave and without a
proper reason, he should be deemed as deserted the post since the day absent and should be informed by
a register post or by hand letter to him.
(2) Requesting an employee to submit reason form not reporting for duty, or preparing to charge against him/her
should not be done.
(3) If any employee forwarded the reason of absent and the reason was not forwarded by him within 21 days
from the day he was absent, the society should consider the appeal.
(4) If the committee has realized that matters mentioned are reasonable and justice, the society may grant
permission to report for work with or without any condition or reject the appeal.
(5) If the employee unsatisfied of the decision of society as that he has been deemed as a deserted employee,
he may submit an appeal to the commissioner within 21 days from the day the decision informed. The
decision of the committee is the final.
(6) No any previous benefits to be paid to the employee by the society to who, deemed as deserted employee.
C
HAPTER  V
SALARY AND ALLOWANCES
38. General
The commission should impose orders on concern of the employees allowance and gratuity of a Co-operative
society. Therefore no any payments should not be given by the society to its employee without the appeal of the commission.
39. Subsidy payments
(1) Subsidy should be paid to recover the expenditure mean depend themselves as such as travelling and lodging
while they are duty at out of the station.
(2) This payment shall be paid, if only the employee does duties not less than 06 kilo meters away for the respected
service station.
(3) If any has done his duty not less than 06 kilo meters distance from his respected service station, he should be
paid an extra payment of 25% an subsidy payment, less than each 24 hours time period, no additional payment
of 25% should be paid.
(4) Fully subsidy shall be paid for the time period of fewer 12 hours and up to 24 hours.
(5) Time period of less than 12 hours, until 12 hours, shall be paid 1/2 of the payment what paying for 24 hours.
(6) No subsidy shall be paid for the time period less than 06 hours.
(7) Subsidy may be paid for the period of being in one place continuously outside from the service station only.
Collection of broken time period shoud not be paid.

<!-- page 29 -->

29AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
40. over time
(1) Task certainly to be completed, which cannot be accomplished in the office hours, cannot be completed by any
other practical alternatives, when a certain work to be accomplished outer the service time, an overtime to be
paid for utilizing thetime to be accomplished.
(2) If any employee works a few hours additionally once a while in an emergency, situation, overtime shall not be
paid.
(3) Work accumulated due to carelessness or lack of knowledge on subject related to or purposely neglect to
complete the duty in time or getting more leave of due to delay attendance shall not paid any overtime.
(4) Officers in the executive grades and the staff bear field duty are not entitled overtime.
(5) The overtime should be calculated one hour at the rate 1 1/2 as mentioned below. Monthly salary except
allowance x 3 = over time should be paid per hour.
(6) At least 1/2 an hour should be worked to claim an over time. The unit of every exceeding 15 minutes may count
for over time. Over time should not be paid for the time period of less than 1/2 an hour.
Example :
(I) No overtime may claim up to 29 minutes ;
(II) Overtime of 1/2 an hour may be claimed 30 minutes to 44 minutes ;
(III) Overtime of 3/4 hour may be claimed 45 minutes to 59 minutes.
(7) What are the overtime work to claim an overtime. Why that works are not completed in the duty hours etc.
should submitted to authorizer and prior approval should be taken for over time.
(8) No overtime be claimed by an employee for the days of late attendance, days of half day leave, working in short
leave.
(9)  Over time for Stand by Duty :
(a) Even it no works to be completed in certain period after the generally working hours a person bring to a
standstill in a certain point for a certain time to utilize immediately when necessary referred as “Stand by”
duty ;
(b) Half amount of general over time shall be paid for Stand by duty, though the employee released temporarily
from duty, no deemed as that employee is relaeased completely from duty since shall be called in necessary.
Example :
Occasion be kept in standstill where in working station, will be able to call a Driver when necessary.
41. Holiday pay
(1) The executive of officers grade may claim one day salary for covering 08 hours work in the public holiday and
weekend holidays, 1/2 day salary for exceeding 4 hours and less than 8 hours and any payments for working less than 04
hours in addition. Holiday pay may paid to the executive officers only if obtain approval of the committee. The holiday pay
may obtain subject to twice a month.

<!-- page 30 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
30A
Calculating the holiday pay
Monthly salary without allowance = day pay
                                                          30
(2) If an Executive Officer engaged in a special duty of the society very often except the daily duty, (less than two
hours) equal to 1/4 of the day salary should be paid tyo officer for the period as such. Prior approval of the committe should
be obtained to pay this payment.
42. Allowance should be paid to the executives for participating to the Committee Meeting
(1) Allowance may paid as prescribed the circular which released from time to time by the commission to the officers
of the executive grade of the society to who participate to the Sub committee Meetings and  Committee Meetings which held
except of the office hours. The allowance of above shall not pay for less than half an hour.
43. Secretary Allowance
(1) If there isn’t any person was recurited as a permanent secretary in any society, the Executive Officer of that
society does the duty of the secretary apart from his constant duty, an allowance may paid as prescribed by the commission
for it.
(2) The person who bears the post of secretary shall be paid only one from both mean, the allowance which pay to
the Executive Officer for participating to the Committee Meeting or allowance for the post of secretary.
44. Payments to who calculate the remaining goods
(1) An allowance may pay to the employees who count the emergency goods annually and semi annually in the
society. This allowance should b e paid on the limit of the commission prescribed.
45. Gratuity payment
(1) A gratuity may claimed to who retire or to be retired on a reason of completing age or health or a permanent
employee completed the continuously service of five years or the service period is over. Any employee who claims this has
deceased ; the lawfully heirs of the person may obtain the allowance.
(2) This claim can be made by the employee, who retired at the age, complusory retired, Resigned, terminated service
on inefficiency ground, interdicted or any other manner of termination of the co-operative employees, including permanent
employee and the employee who work on agreement basis and who terminated on any reason can be claimed too.
(3) When paying gratuity, the monthly salary what that employee obtained at last should be deemed as salary.
(4) The gratuity amount should be the half amount of the last month salary of his service period which multiplied
into years he worked should be paid as equivalent as to grtutity. When counting the service period, if found that he had
worked nine months or exceeding it, it should be considered as one year.
(5) A equivalent payment of 14 days salary for each year should be paid to the employee who under piece rate
payments and agreement base employee. When counting this payment of 14 days salary, the days that employee worked in
the prior twelve months and the payments which paid should b e counted and that amount shall be divided by the worked
days and determine the amount of salary to be paid as 14 days salary per year.
(6) The gratuity should be paid within 30 days of completing service of the employee and if failed to pay before the
prescribed date, a surcharge shall be paid according to the Gratuity payment Act, No. 12 of 1983 adn relevant amendment
therein to.

<!-- page 31 -->

31AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
(7) In the event any employee who qualified to claim a Gratuity compensation caused any damages to society, that
quantity should be celarly identified and recovered from the Gratuity compensation.
(8) A loan which an employee obtained as a member should not lieu form the gratuity.
46. Salary and remuneration
(1) Salary and remuneration
The co-operative employee’s commission should be prescribed the qualification to appoint for any post of
a co-operative society, the salary which entitled for the post and reform the salary time to time shall be done
with the concurrence of the Commissioner.
(2) Salaries on promotion :
(a) In an occasion of promotion, if the last salary of the employee counted between the phases of new salary
scale, the salary of the new post should be kept on the higher steps and salary increment should be paid ;
(b) The last salary of the employee consonants with the salary of beginning new salary scale or salary phase,
the officer should be kept on higher salary phase ;
(c) It the salary scales of the new post decreasing by one amplify or more, the employee should be kept at the
beginning salary of new salary scale ;
(d) The final salary of a employee in a promotion, decreases less than one amplify the new post salary scale, the
employee should be kept in the beginning salary of new salary scale, an additional amplify should be
given  ;
(e) The date of salary amplify should be the day of promotion be enacted.
(3) Salary increment :
(a) The salary increment of an employee should acquire by completing the assigned duty as anticipated manner,
efficiently and diligently. No employee may acquire a salary increment apart from that ;
(b) When the commission reform the employee’s salary as shown section (1) above, may impose provision to
make ways to provide salary increment to the employee that who never acquired or by eliminating the salary
discrepancy. The commission hasn’t power to provide salary increment to a committee of a society without
as such provisions or determinations.
(c) The time period of increment salary, his duty achievement should evaluate. The contributions of obeying to
the rules and conditions of the institution, attendance and discipline should be considered. A format should
be made use for this. If no increment, it should inform to the employee.
(4) Process of salary increment
The below mentioned process are followed when rejecting the salary increment of an employee.
(a) Suspending the salary increment ;
This meant no increment be paid for any determinate period. The end of the time period, the increment
shall be given from the determinate date.
(b) Halting salary increment :
This meant, to be unpaid for certain period and if be paid at the end of the time period, the salary
increment shall paid by subduing the payment which unpaid in the period of halted the increment.

<!-- page 32 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
32A
(c) Terminating the salary increment :
This meant, no increment be paid permanently, the lost on salary concern.
(d) Subtracting the salary increment :
Some process shown above may prescribe as a punishment on disciplinary action.
47. Salary Loan
(1) The committee may grant a loan for the affairs shown Section 4.9.4 subject to 10 months salary of the staff to the
staff by considering the repaying ability, the requirement of the applicants and financial situation of the co-operative society.
(2) This salary laon may paid to all the permanent employees who were appointed a permanent staff and confirmed
the premanency after probation period and included in the work force evaluation of the society.
(3) The low amount in both such as the expenditure for certainly to the relevant matter or the employee’s 10 months’
salary shall grant a said salary loan. For the salary, to be counted the salary loan to be taken, the montnly salry of non-
allowance employee of that time.
(4) The matters that salary loan should be given.
(a) The amount what spent for a funeral of an employee’s family member ? ;
(b) To recover the medical expenditure of a employee or his family members ;
(c) For a disaster that employee confronted, which cannot be controlled by him as such as cyclone, fire, rain,
flood, earth slid or any other reason ;
(d) To renew the house or part of the house of the employee or the house of the companion where living ;
(e) To purchase required school instruments, books or tools of Science and technology for the education of the
children ;
(f) To pay an advance for a rental house, on a reason of without a permanent house to the employee or
spouse ;
(g) To redeem the gold jewellaries of the employee this mortgaged in bank or financial institutions ;
(h) To enforce the employee’s loan scheme, cyclical funds should be allocated by the annual budget ;
(i) The rate of interest which determines by the society should not be caused a loss to the society and that rate
of interest could be borne by employee ;
(j) The loan has granted on considering as coving over not deeming 48 hours period of retiring age and as that
fully interest may recover the society should determine the loan installments. However the loan installment
and other all deductions should in the 40% salary limit with allowances ;
(k) No loans grant to the emplyee until the all previous loan with the interest paid ;
(l) Two permanent employees who are serving not less than 05 years should sign the bond as guarantees in a
Society/Board ;
(m) The employee should attain to systematic agreement before grant the loan of a society/board ;
(n) Granting a salary loan is welfare program, thus the societies may prepare a loan scheme which is appropriate
and the above general provisions mentioned above.

<!-- page 33 -->

33AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
48. Compensation paying to the employee of the co-operative in disable or death while in the Duty
(1) The compensation of the co-operatifve employees should pay consistent to the ordinance of the compensation
act of labor for disable or death while in the duty.
CHAPTER  VI
DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE
49. General
(1) The Committee of the society owns the powers of expelling the co-operative employees from the service and
controling disciplint. The powers of Deciding the procedures to be carried out by the committee when practcing its powers,
ordering the period of a disciplinary inquiring a society and inquiring any appeals against inquiry-decisions given by the
society and issue necessary orders to the society are entrusted to the co-operative employees commission.
(2) Taking of disciplinary actions against any employee, should not be postponed due to any employee probelms
forwarded to be solved under the co-operative laws or appeals conveyed against disciplinary inquiry decisions. These
problems should not be a barrier to continau disciplinary inequity.
(3) Its responsibility of the committee to look into any minor un disciplinary action or carelessness done by
employees within three days of time and advice them and wake then not to repeat such.
(4) All co-operative workers are bount to carry out their duties correctly, actively, honestly and capably.  Also they
must obey the lawful graders and advice given by ones senior/higher officers.
(5) All co-operative workers should be harmless to the good name of the society and the co-operative organization.
(6) All co-operative employees should be responsible to contribute in every way to pretect the resources of the co-
operative society and carry out their duties to the best of their ability.
(7) All co-operative workers should be respectful to the public and deal with the people and the customers go as to
enshrine the good name and the good image of their society.
50. Preliminary Inquiry
(1)  A preliminary inquiry is an inspection held by a person authorized by the discipline authority (the committee) to
find out the initial facts to discover the origin, ans soon as a doubt or an information is received of any employee has done
certain false and collect evidence against that employee at a glance to take necessary steps for disciplinary inquiry if needed.
(2) To handle preliminaty inquiry a suitable Executive Level Officer working in the society should be appointed by
the committee, If the society has no such a suitable person, suitable Executive Officer form another society or a Senior Officer
in service/retired from a Government Institute State Corporation of board, may appointed for it.
(3) Its the responsibility of the committeee to wake arrangements to hold a preliminary inquiry as soon as information
is received of an accused employee. In an emergency matter, the chairman is entrusted to appoint, the chairman is entrusted
to appoint a person mentioned under subtitle 5 to holder preliminary inquiry, under post approval of the committee.
(4) When an Inquiry Officer is appointed for a preliminary inquiry by the committee, a power.
(5) The inquiry officer is entitled to inspect the books, documents and assets belongs to the society or get details
ans statement for the preliminary inquiry.

<!-- page 34 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
34A
(6) Its an offence for an employee of the society to refust giving any details or statements in a preliminary inquiry,
when they are needed. When such a situation is being reported by an inquiry officer, disciplinary action should be taken
against such employees.
(7) (a) The accused employee or his agent has no opportunity too I give explanations as a right. But this should not
be a barrier for the inquiry officer to call upon the accused, order him to produce documents and assets kept
under his responsibility for inspection. And also the above should not be a barrier to note down a statement
given by the accused accepting his  guiltiness voluntarily.
(b) If an accused in not attending or neglecting to produce assets, cash, documents or any other goods under
his responsibility without informing any reasonable cause when he is asked for at, a preliminary inquiry, and
the inquiry officer should inform about it to the chairman of the society. Than the chairman should appoint
a committee consist of a member of the committee, an Executive Officer and a /Grama -Niladhari or a Police
Officer. This committee should destock the locks and record all documents assets and other goods into a list
with the signatures of all members of the above committee and proceed further as a legal inspection done in
front of the accused employee.
(c) Yet a registered - Post letter should be sent to the accused employed giving reasonable time he should come
up to hand over the goods etc. And if there’s any inconvenience for him to come, he can send his agent for
it. If not locks would be disliked front of a special committee and there all responsibilities would be laid on
him.
(8) At a preliminary inquiry, facts should be collected, too if there are, to prove the accused employee’s innocence
or whether the matters should be considered less strict and if so, inquire those facts too and should be reported.
(9) At a preliminary inquiry, if sufficient evidence is found to charge the suspected along with the charges and
forwarded But if such facts are not available to carry out an inquiry and apply punishment, or sufficient evidence is not
available at an inquiry, all facts should be entered along with the consent and forwarded a report. The committee should
inspect this report and take a decision whether to hold a formal inquiry or not.
(10) Its responsibility of the inquiry-officer to complete a preliminary inquiry as soon as possible and handover the
report of it. The committee should provide a maximum period of 04 weeks to the inquiry-officer to complete a preliminary
inquiry according to details unveiled yet another period of not more than two weeks may be given to the inquiry-officer if he
is able to prove that the previously provided time is not sufficient due to any acceptable obstacle.
(11) When the inquiry officer stops the work of a prevailing inquiry and resigns from it voluntarily or if it happens
to stop the inquiry on the way due to sickness/death of the inquiry-officer or any other unavoidable circumstances, the
committee should immediately appoint another inquiry and continue the work of the inquiry.
(12) It is suitable for the inquiry officer appointed secondly to start his inquires from teh beginning of the incident.
He must start his inquiring after obtaining all documents including evidence reports and other notes that were under the ex-
officer and also the evidence recurred copies signed by him, from evidence arrives. Probably the statements given secondly
may differ from the first and special attention should be paid to them.
(13) The inquiring board for the formal disciplinary inquiry should not be appointed by the preliminary inquiry
officer. He may be called up to give eveidence at a formal disciplinary inquiry of behalf of the plaintiff.
(14) When the preliminary inquiry officer is being called up to give evidence at formal disciplinary inquiry and if not
attended, his balance should not be a barrier to continue the inquiry. His report of the preliminary inquiry can be used to find
out evidence.
51. Interdicting and keeping under compulsory leave
(1) Interdicting an employee should not be done unless if it is liable for a dismissal or for major punishment if proved
to existing charged off if started or about to start proceeding for a criminal case at courts or if the employee is badly
unsuitable to keep in service further more due to reporting’s of heavy charges against him from courts or from any established
authority.

<!-- page 35 -->

35AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
(2) The committee should take necessary steps for a transfer to another place or send on compulsory leave an
employee who is under a preliminary inquiry although it’s not suitable to keep an in service, when it is not advisable to
interdict him. When such an employee is sent a compulsory leave, his due salary should be paid to him on the same day and
manner the other employees are paid.
(3) When an employee is interdicted without Strong’s evidence to prove his guiltiness, he may be replaced in-
service if he is found not quilt at the preliminary inquiry. Then the society will have to repay his salaries for the time he was
not in service, too therefore it is much advisable to look into the mightiness of evidence and charges against the accused
before the interdiction.
(4) The committee is entitled to interdict an employee even before holding a preliminary inquiry at following
situations.
(a) When the suspect seems to be interrupting the inquiry ;
(b) If seen clearly that the suspected employee would be easily made quality with the found strong evidence or
if seen to have done a financial damage to the society, at a glance ;
(c) If discovered the employee is being made an accused at a court of low or made guilty by it regarding a
criminal charge.
(5) The disciplinary authority should be responsible to start the preliminary inquiry as soon as possible and
complete it, too. The employee must not be kept under interdiction for a long time by delaying the preliminary inquiry due to
a lack of an inquiry officer or delays due to the expansion of decision making process etc.
(6) When an employee under compulsory leave is found quality at the preliminary inquiry and if seen through
evidence heartily that he is liable to be dismissed from the service or to be given heavy punishment, the disciplinary authority
shoud stop compulsory leave and take steps to interdict him immediately an hold the formal disciplinary inquiry.
(7) The occasion, half-parry should not be paid during interdiction, No payment of salary should paid at all for the
employees under interdiction for the following reasons.
(a) Misusing or making room for misuse of finance or assets of the society, waste or make room form wastage
damage or harm the assets belonging to the society, stealing finance or assets of the society false singing,
making false documents, cheating of commissions or discounts or other profits that should be gained by the
society in buying and other business matter of the society, bribing ;
(b) When interdicted for filing a court case regarding a criminal offence or bribing or corruption.
(8) Options of paying half salary during interdiction when not fatling in to the charges mentioned in above subtitles
7(a) and (b), the committeemay order an interdiction with half pay, taking into consideration the heaviness of the charges, the
quality of employee’s preserves presales, and the economy of him.
(9) It is the responsibility of the committee to avoid any obstacles delaying a formal disciplinary inquiry and
complete the inquiry soon when such an inquiry is being unable to be furnised within 06 months time of an employee
interdicted with half pay according to the above subtitle (5) when a target date to finish the inquiry cannot be fixed due to an
uvavoidable circumstances not due to a fault of the accused employee, it must be informed to the commission and carry out
its decision. The commission should be consulted regarding continuing of half payment further to the employee. The
decision of the commission shall the final.
52. Drafting a charge-sheet or editing a charge-sheet.
(1) The most important of disciplinary inquiry process in the drafting of a clear and uncomplicated chrge-sheet
including facts unveil from the preliminary inquiry against an accused employee.

<!-- page 36 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
36A
(2) (a) Only the committee is authorized issue a charge-sheet. Therefore the charge-sheet should be signed by the
chairman under the consent of the committee each time the charges are edited, the consent of the committee
should be obtained and the edited charge-sheet too, should be signed by the chairman ;
(b) There should be only one offence included into one charge made under each serial number. This should not
be mend as several disciplinay false could be included into one offence, but only one charge should be
included into one offence in the charge sheet.
(3) At least, 14 day period should be given from the date included in charge-sheet to the accused to reply for charges
mentioned in the charge-sheet, limiting time up to a maximum of 4 week period from the date the charge-sheet was handed
over to the accused, within this period of time replies should be supplied as per subtitled 5 below. But the committee is
entitled to supply another reasonable time if the accused appeals for, with acceptable reasoning the inability to reply within
the given time.
(4) The following facts should be included in a charge-sheet.
(a) It should be mentioned that whether the charged mentioned belong to major offences or to minor offences
according to this scheme of orders ;
(b) When replying, to whom should it be sent under registered-post ?
(c) What the charges are ;
(d) Written and vocal evidence should be stated as proof for the charges ;
(e) Under whose responsibility the documents of evidence are kept? How can they be observed?
(f) That, a protecting officer may be appeared on behalf of the accused to assist him ;
(g) The next steps to be taken if failing to respond within the given period of time.
(5) Responding the charge-sheet.
The relevant employs replying for a charges sheet should  not state his un quietness with only standing”. I am not
quality for the charges” but also should supply a complete reply to assure his guiltness for each charge.
(6) The commitee should take steps to carry out a formal disciplinary inquiry aoubt a accused employee who is
neglecting purposely to forward facets for his an guiltness even after the given period of time.
(7) The committee may decide whether to carry out a formal disciplinary inquiry for further confirmation even when
the accused employee has replied accepting all charges mentioned in the hare-sheet (The formal inquiry will help to confirm
further the facts discovered by the preliminary inquiry).
(8) Editing of a charge-sheet
If an officer handling a preliminary inquiry is prescribing a formal inquiry agaist the relevant accused, the committee
is responsible of inspecting the charge-sheet before issuing it to the accused employee, to confirm to see whether any
charges have been missed according to the inquiry report, are the evidence sufficient, relevantness of evidence and the
manner of building the charges etc. With a deep eys. If not an uncompleted charge sheet may b e issued and it may have to
be edited several times. It is not advisable to eidt an issued charge-sheet several times.
Anyhow, the committee may edit a charge-sheet at the following two moments :
(a) Before starting the formal inquiry after the issue of the charge-sheet ;
(b) After the disciplinary inquiry had begun and before the end of conducting evidence of the plaintiff.

<!-- page 37 -->

37AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
To edit a charge-sheet after the inquriy has been started, the agent of the plaintiff should forward it to the inquiry
officer along with the relevant coatings of the minutes of the committee meeting.
(9) When an appeal had been made for on edit of a charge sheet with the consent of the committee, a period of 14
days shuld be allocated to the accused to respond it. After that period the disciplinary officer may give his decisions and
proposals after referring to those replies. If not the inquiry officer is entitled to send on edited charge sheet to the accuse d
and send the file back to the society along with the reply of the accused, to take suitable action.
(10) If the officer conducting the plaintiff appeals to revise a name list of evidence or written evidence list after
disciplinary inquiry had begun, the inquiry officer is entitled to take a decision about it appropriately.
(11) When editing a charges sheet, appropriate time should be given to the accused employee to respond the
edicted charges and to inspect the evidance sheets. This period of time should be decided by the discipline authority and the
absolute intention of it should be to provide in every way the ultimate right the accused has to forward excuses to prove his
innocence.
(12) Appointing an officer to lead the plaint ;
(a) The committee must appoint a suitable officer to lead the plaint ;
(b) It is the responsibility the officer leading the plaint to prove the charges made against the accused referring
to relevant documents and evidences on behalf of the society ;
(c) The officer leading the plaint should give his fullest co-operation to the inquiry officer to precede the inquiry
nonstop without making the society into any inconveniences ;
(d) If the officer leading teh plaint had be get retired from his employment, that retirement should not be
influenced, to carry out the inquiry further, yet if he becomes ill, lack of faith or dead, the committee should
take immediate steps for a replacement. ;
(e) If the officer newly appointing to conduct the plaint is an employee of the same society, he should be an
officer senior to the accused employee. Most probably, yet in a situation an inability occurs to appoint as
such from the society itself, an experienced senior officer, and working in or retired, from the co-operative
service or from Government Corporation Service may be appointed. But a person not in co-operative service,
and one who has been dismissed, left or ended service duty to normal uncap ability or one sent on complusory
retirement from Government or Government Corporation Service, should not be appointed as the agent to
plaintiff ;
(13) Appointing a protecting officer on be haft of an accused employees.
(a) The discipline authority is entitled to give permission to a person in/retired from the co-operative service or
one retired from Government/Government Corporation Service to represent the accrued employee. Yet no
permission should be given to represent him for person expelled from service, left service, ended service due
to incapability or sent noncompulsory retirement on a disciplinary act of the co-operative. Government/
Government Corporation service as the protecting officer. The selected protecing officer should handover a
written statement to the disciplinary inquiry officer certifying that he does not belong to any above unsuitable
category. (It’s better to use a prescribed format for this).
(b) The protecting officer should give his Co-operation to conduct the inquiry properly and if continuous
disturbing is done by him, the disciplinary inquiry officer is entitled to remove the permit given too him. If
one so, it should to inform the chairman and may allow the accused to appoint another protecting officer.
(14) Appointing disciplinary inquiring officer (appointing on inquiry board).
When the committee decides to hold formal disciplinary inquiry to assur whether the discoveries of the preliminary
inquiry were to be correct and ture without any doubt, a disciplinary inquiry officer should be appointed.
12 — PG 1748

<!-- page 38 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
38A
(15) The senior officer of Co-operative Societies, Government Institutes, and Government Corporations established
Boards, still working retired from service are suitable to appoint as disciplinary inquiry officers.
(16) The disciplinary inquiry officer should be a person holding or held a senior post than the accused employee.
(17) Sometimes, when more than one (should be on add number) investigating officers are appointed as a board of
judgement one of them should be appointed as the chairman of the board by the committee.Obstacle because of the
disciplinary process or any other matter, that shuld not be considered much with that common opinion the inquiry should be
carried art and the decision taken by the inquiry officer would be the final decision.
(18) The disciplinary inspecting officer should be impartial, honest, punctual and capable in handling inquiries and
ardent to finish the task assigned by the society within the time duration expected by it and handover the inquiry report with
his conclusions.
(19) A preliminary inquiry officer should not be appointed as the formal inspection officer too. The commission
possesses the power of deciding whether a person is suitable or not to be appointed to conduct a formal disciplinary inquiry.
At such a situation the committee is bound to carry at what the commission orders.
53. The procedure of holding a formal disciplinary inquiry.
(1) The judgement board has the power to take fair decisions appropriately when holding disciplinary enquiry what
the truth and untruth is immediately. Therefore no room should be provided for an obstacle because of the disciplinary
process or any other matter that should not be considered much with that common opinion the inquiry should be carryout
and the decision taken by the inquiry officer would be the final decision.
(2) The officer appointed to hold a formal disciplinary inquiry should be albe to self-manage the cirmustances
needed to hold the inquiry successfully. The experinece he has gained in holding disciplinary inquiry’s and the understanding
all-out the process and powers of it will help him to conduct inquiries smoothly.
(3) The order steps of the procedure in holding formal inquiry are as follows :
(a) Deciding the date and time of the inquiry ;
(b) Calling up of the evidence givers and relevant parties for the first day of the inquiry ;
(c) Inquiring the agent of the society of its preparation for the inquiry ;
(d) Identifying  the accused employee ;
(e) Inquiring him whether he has received the charge-sheet ;
(f) If received, reading out of the charges is buyout ;
(g) Inquiring whether he is quality or not for the charge ;
(h) If the accused had not received the charge-sheet inquiring about it from the agent of the society and waking
arrangements to get the accused the charge-sheet ;
(i) The accused has received the charge sheet and yet he is not prepared for the inquiry applying a reasonable
time for it ;
(j) Obtaining the needed documents ;
(k) Maintaining action notes and an inquiry journal ;
(l) Obtaining evidence of the plaintiff first and making room for corss-questions ;
(m) Obtaining evidence of accused secondly and make room for to Goss questioning ;

<!-- page 39 -->

39AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
(n) After every given evidence, the evidence should sign underneath the statement of “I accept that I have read
and understood the above statement as truth” ;
(o) Obtaining the abridged evidence reports of the plaintiff and the accused (protecting officer) parties ;
(p) Arranging a report containing the opinions and prescriptions of the inquiry officer (Judgement board) ;
(q) Getting approved by signatures that the report along with the relevant documents of the inquiry officer were
handed overd to the disciplinary authority (the chairman) and that they were received.
(4) Important instances found at a formal disciplinary inquiry and how to deal them :
(a) When the accused accepts his guiltiness for all charges read and explained by the disciplinary inspector, the
accused employee’s statement should be noted down and got signed by him and handed over a report to the
disciplinary authority including the opinions and prescriptions of the inquiry officer ;
Yet the formal disciplinary inquiry should be proceeded ahead as to discover more details. When the
acception is only for a few charges, the inquiry should be continued further till end come to conclusions ;
(b) If the accused or his agent were absent without any pre-notification including acceptable reasons for two
consecutive occasions, it should be modified to the accused through registered post, the fixed next day of
the inquiry and that if he fails to face it on that day, one party inquiry would be carried out from that day
itself ;
(c) The written and vocal evidence given at a disciplinary inquiry by the two parties and be cross-questioned
and accordance about their correctness and accordance before coming to conclusions about them ;
(d) It details in confidential documents are expectd to be used against the accused employee those documents
or relevant parts of them should be shown to the accused (or to the protecting officer). If the accused pary
needs, it should be allowed for cross questioning about those documents ;
(e) All evidence forwarded by both parties at a disciplinary inquiry should  be considered, and relevant,
acceptable best evidence should be based for conclusions ;
(f) The accused is able to give evidence without a protecting officer. Then cross questioning can be done from
him. If the accdused wish the may avoid giving evidence or he may give a vocal or written statement only.
There the accused himself should forward the summary of evidence ;
(g) After all the evidence had been noted down the accused may make a statement if he wish but no cross
questioning should be done relevant to it. Yet if the disciplinary inquiry officer feels that he needs a further
explanation about that statement from the accused he is entitled to do so ;
(h) The disciplinary officer is entrusted to cll upon any evidences to get evidence or inspect any documents. No
room should be supplied to cross question such evidence to both parties, but both parties should be given
the opportunity to get clarified from the inquiry officer about the facts he has questioned ;
(i) When a disciplinary inquiry is started, the action notes of evidence given by the evidences day by day
should provided to both parties at the end of each day  ;
(j) If there are any objections regarding the way the inquiry was handled and the responds of the inquiry of
facer for those, should be kept recorded at the end of the inquiry. The inquiry officer is entrusted to get
clarified any facts from any evidence from both parties, avoid unnecessary evidence or limit unnessary
evidence ;
(k) When certified written evidence sheets are been forward as evidence at a disciplinary inquiry, the written
evidecne of the plainstiff should be arragned according to serial numbers of p: 1, p: 2 etc. and of the accused
as a: 1, a: 2, etc, and handed over the copies of them with initialing of the inquiry officer, to all parties and
noted down about it in action noted, The written evidence called up by the inquiry officer should be
humbled as Inquiry officer 1, 2 etc. as said before. The disciplinary inquiry officer has the power to order to
all forward teh originals of any documents of any copies forward by the parties, if the inquiry officer or the
parties wish. If any party fails to do so, the inquiry officer may take a decision of its acception ;

<!-- page 40 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
40A
(l) After inquiring evidence of both parties, 14 day period should be given to them to forward the comprehensive
summaries of evidence reports. The delay of them should not be barrier for the inquiry officer to declare his
conclusions.
54. The duty and the responsibility of the committee to complete a disciplinary inquiry as soon as possible
(1) If the report of the disciplinary inquiry officer is being delayed although the inquiry is over that delayed time too
would  be added to the whole time allocated for the disciplinary inquiry. Therefore a date should fix to handover the inquiry
report and avoid dealy through a reminder.
(2) Payments
The Payments for the disciplinary inquiry officer, the agent of the plaintiff and the typist should be as per circulars
issued by and then by the co-operatives commission.
(3) When the agent of the plaintiffs delaying the inquiry unnecessarily a sum must be deducted from his payment
and also a sum must be deducted from the disciplinary inquiry officer if he is delaying his final report unreasonably when
there’s  a fixed due date for it. Yet these deductions should not exceed 25% from the due payment.
55. Issuing of disciplinary orders
(1) The committees entitle to accept or refuse (forwarding by the inquiry officer at a disciplinary inquiry any
conclusion or advice.  When not agreet with them the committee should make report containing the reasons for disagreement
with the evidence forwarded at the inquiry and attached copy of it to the report of the disciplinary inquiry and issue the
decision of the committee.
(2) The committee should not issue orders by staing only “we do not agree with the concesions of the disciplinary
inquiry officer” but is should be as above chapter.
(3) The following details should be in chided when issuing a disciplinary order :
(a) Whether he is guilty/not guilty for each charge of the charge sheet ;
(b) Number the charges the accused has become guilty for and the punishments prescribed regarding them  ;
(c) If decided to release the accused from the charges, he should be informed immediately. Also the accused
employee should be called up for service though an order issued, if he was interdicted. Also an order of
paying him the arrears salaries for the period he had been interdicted should be included in the disciplinary
order ;
(d) When the accused had been made guilty for one all or several charges, punishment way be applied separetely
for each charge or one punishment for all charges or several punishments. If the punishment is dismissal
from service, it should be from the date interdicted ;
(e) When the charges were proved and yet a dismissal from service is not ordered, an order should be issued
immediately placing him in service immediately placing him in service again. A decision should also be taken
regardind salaries during his intrediction. This decision may be ordered as a part of the punishment considering
the nature of the proven charges comparatively.
56. Categorization of offences
(1) The offences have been categorized into two part as follows :
(a) Minor offences ;
(b) Major offences.

<!-- page 41 -->

41AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
(a) Minor offences :
(I) Incapability (I.e. neglecting, delaying colitis lake of quality of quantity, laziness, carelessness at work,
postpoing duties due to privet work during duty, etc.) ;
(II) Neglecting legal orders received regarding duties ;
(III) Improper conduct w hen dealing with people and customers of the institute ;
(IV) Distributing advertising papers or collecting money inside the work place without permission of the
head of the institute ;
(V) Exit without permission from the work place work reporting for work ;
(VI) Being late for work and leave early as a habbit ;
(VII) Inattention
(VIII) Misconduct and disturbing to others on duty at the work place ;
(b) Major offences
(I) Seen directly a damage or harm done to material and goods of the society due to carelessness, purposely
or as fault ;
(II) Disobedience or indiscipline ;
(III) Stealing of material or goods thing within the premises of the society ;
(IV) Punished due to misbehavior ;
(V) Bribing ;
(VI) Quarrelsome or ill behavior during work, inside the institute ;
(VII) Being drunk, use of narcotics or smoking inside the institute during work time ;
(VIII) Misleading of accounts purposely ;
(IX) Covering cheats ;
(X) Breach of confidence ;
(XI) Misuse of assets and finance of the society stealing or making room for theft of them ;
(XII) Cheating of commissions, discounts or any other profits due by the society from business dealings ;
(XIII) West of providing room for waste ;
(XIV) Ignoring of lead instructions of senior officers ;
(XV) False signature or preparing false documents ;
(XVI) Behaving as to bring disgrace to the society one in working at or to the whole co-operative organization.
57. Punishments
(1)  Punishment for minor offences
(a) Rebuke or strong rebuke ;
(b) Hold up of increments for not over one year ;
(c) Stop increments ;
(d) Transfers ;
(e) Fine of not over one week’s salary ;
(f) Suitable punishment, not belonging into major punishment category (advice, would not be a punishment).

<!-- page 42 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
42A
(2)  Punishment for major offences
(a) Dismissal from service ;
(b) Finish up service if under aprobation period ;
(c) Denote from seniority/post/Grade ;
(d) Deduct the increment (not the due increment but the increment already paid) ;
(e) Cancelling increments (not paying a due increment right through the service)  ;
(f) Compulsory retirement ;
(g) Stop promotion for a fixed period.
58. Appealing
(1)  If an employee is dissatisfied with a disciplinary decision given against him by a co-operative society, he can
appeal agents it to the co-operative employee’s commission. Dissatisfaction of a disciplinary order means any order given up
to dismissal from service, by the disciplinary authority to an employee after a held disciplinary inquiry and it cause
dissatisfaction to therelevant employee.
(2) (a) The relief asked for, by the appeal should be stated clearly such as appeal should be forwarded to the co-
operative employees commissiion within 60 working days of time from the day the disciplinary order was
issued. The matters to be included in the appeal are being stated in supplement 04 in this Statute ;
(b) When an appeal is being submitted by an employee is the service, it should be sent to the commission via
the society, and it is the responsibility of the society to convey such an appeal to the commission within -3
days. The society should supply a report containing its conclusions and reviews about the facts in the
appeal to the co-operative employees commission with is 14 days from the day the appeal was received by
the commission ;
(c) The appeal of an employee not in service may hand over to the commission straight away. A copy of it
should be sheet to the society. The society must send its report with conclusions and reviews of the appeal
with is 14 days from the day it had received the copy of the appeal to the co-operative employees’
commission ;
(3) The commission may call details of the disciplinary inquiry of the employee who had forwarded an appeal to the
commission, from the society. And the society should send the following relevant documents included in the file.
(a) The order of filling the documents in the file of the disciplinary inquiry :
(I) Content of the file ;
(II) Documents relevant to the plaint and the preliminary inquiry ;
(III) The letter of interdiction (half pay/not paid, to be mentioned) ;
(IV) The replay to the charge sheet ;
(V) Appointing of the inquiry officer (his name<status, date of appointment should be mentioned) ;
(VI) Inquiry noted ;
(VII) Report of the agent of the accused ;
(VIII) The report included the conclusions of the disciplinary inquiry officer ;
(IX) Decision of the committee (with the coating of the minutes) ;
(X) The letter of informing the disciplinary order to the accused.

<!-- page 43 -->

43AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
(b) When the commission requests to send the disciplinary inquiry reports and the files of employee, a full
detailed report about the incident should be supplied along with his personal file additional to the relevant
files. If there’s any respone is been conveyed to a letter in that file it should flagged and sent too,. Also all
the documents that should be entered to the personal file should be there by numbering them. If there are
preserves reports, disciplinary punishments, advising, praising false pointing etc., of the employee filed in
the personal file, they should be pin-pointed by flagging ;
(c) All files should be sent to the commission registered post only if given by hand, it should be by hand of an
employee/officer to the commission and kept a note as it handed over.
(4) When a employee’s appeal is received by the commission if may be inquired by the commission itself or through
an officer of inquiring appeals when inquring such an appeal, the parties are entitle to forward agents on behalf of them under
the consent of the commission. Although any person connected to co-operative service or an agent of  a recognized labor
union may person connected to co-operative service or an agent of a recognized labour union may appear as an agent at an
appealed inquiry. No person is allowed to be as such agent if he had been expelled from the co-operative service or state/state
corporation service or sent on compulsion retirement. Left employment or a person who ended his service due to normal
incapability. And also a person who had been in the committee during the serive period of the appealed is not allowed to
appear as the agent of the appealed.
(5) If the commission becomes satisfied about the first appeal by seeing at a glance that there could be facts
relevant to the decision of the inquiry or there had been reasonable Cause for not having unveiled facts on a previous day,
room could be supplied to forward a second appeal within 60 days from the day. The decision was issued regarding the first
appeal.
(6) No new evidence inquiry could be made at the appeal inquiry but the decision could be supplied to both parties
to forward facts regarding the facts raised at the disciplinary inquiry, about the decision taken by the committee and about the
disciplinary punishment.
(7) When an appeal inquiry officer is conducting an inquiry, he should consider all facts presented and forward
report with a reasonable and just decision to the commission.
(8) The commission is entitled to accept, refuse, alter, or give other itself, for a decision given by the committee.
(9) When the commission had acknowledged the committee to carry out any order regarding an employee and if that
society is not obeying it or delaying it, steps would be taken to take legal action as per instructions of the precept of the
commission, against the persons responsible for it.
59. Special occasions regarding employee discipline
(1) Concluding service due to normal incapability :
(a) When the committee decides that the service of an employee should be concluded due to inability to charge
against for a certain false, the committee must ask the relevant employee whether there’s any reason for the
committee not to conclude his service without holding a disciplinary inquiry or take other action against
him ;
(b) A charge against incapability should not be made to an employee if not be had been advised about it at least
three times within the past 12 months ;
(c) The committee may conclude his service or apply some other punishment after an employee had presented
reasons for his innocence.

<!-- page 44 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
44A
(2)  Cirminal offences and bribing :
(a) If any employee had been punished by court for above offences, he should be regarded as interdicted from
the day he was punished. Although he had appealed for a higher court, he should not be paid any salaries
etc. The committee should take steps to stop his salaries from day of his punishment ;
(b) Such an employee should not have a right to appeal for reappointment to work or lessen the punishment of
interdiction ;
(c) When an employee had been made guilty by court, the committee should study the case report and decide
whether to expel him from service or apply a punishment less than to it. It would not be necessay to follow
disciplinary procedure for it ;
(d) When the decision of the committee was for a punishment less than dismissal, and if needed to pay back
certain part from his salary not paid during interdiction on order for the percentage that should be paid too
should be included in the decision of the committee.
C
HAPTER  VII
MISCELLANEOUS
60. Exchanging letters with the commission
(1) In forwarding appeals or all other letters, the co-operative workers should address them to the secretary of the
commission without sending them to personal names of the letter members of the commission.
(2) All letters and appeals sent to the commission by the employees of co-operatives should be sent via the chairman
of the co-opertive society. The society should take steps to direct them to the commission within 03 days of time and
acknowledge the sender about it, too.
61. Supplying of official details to the commission by the co-operative society
(1) Society is liable to supply correct details and date to the commission when they are called by the commission.
(2) All document conveyed to the commission should be signed by the chairman vice chairman or the secretay may
sign them due to chairman’s absence.
(3) Chief executives singature is sufficient for the documents sent to the commission regarding details collected on
workers problem.
(4) When important details are conveyed to the commission regarding appointment promoties, salary and disciplinary
matters etc. they should be enclosed with a quotation of the decision taken by the executive committee.
62. Maintaining of  personal files.
(1) It is essential to open a personal file immediately after a permanent employee is being employed and all so a
personal file for each causal or contact basis worker should be maintained to collect their documents and details.
(2) As personal files contain confidential details, they should be given extra special care than the other files
maintained in the institute.

<!-- page 45 -->

45AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
(3) Contents of a personal file :
(i) The application and the bio-data forms of the employee ;
(ii) Copies of education certificates ;
(iii) Service certificates ;
(iv) V erification letter of education qualifications and work experinece ;
(v) A copy of the birth certificate ;
(vi) A copy of the marriage certificate, if married ;
(vii) A copy of the national identity card ;
(viii) Letter of the appointment ;
(ix) Letter of the assuming duties ;
(x) Medical report ;
(xi) Bonds and agreements ;
(xii) Membership of EPF and ETF ;
(xiii) Detail reports of the probation period ;
(xiv) Copies of letter of permanency/extension of the employment ;
(xv) Result of capability crossing tests ;
(xvi) Evaluation reports for annual increments ;
(xvii) Orders of annual increment payment ;
(xviii) Letters of salary revising or converting ;
(xix) Reports of special leave approval such as no-pay leave, half pay leave, meternity leave, distress leave,
study leave etc. ;
(xx) Copies of certificates obtained by undergoing training, seminars, workshops etc. ;
(xxi) Copies of certifications of special qualifiaction, skills, such as study of other languages, technical
knowledge, driving license and other skill set (even they are not relevant for the present employment);
(xxii) Promotions ;
(xxiii) Letter of appreciations and blames ;
(xxiv) Letter of transfers ;
(xxv) Letters of entrusting duties and responsibilities ;
(xxvi) Disciplinary order ;
(If interdicted that notice ; if sent on compulsory leave, that notification Copies of charge sheets Disciplinary order (letter s
of freeing from charges/minor or major punishment due to disciplinary charges/letter of advices)
(xxvii) Notification of leaving the job if had done ;
(xxviii) If recalled for service, the copy of that letter ;
(xxix)Decisions of appeals of disciplinary punishment ;
(xxx) Improvement of pre-retirement leave ;
13 — PG 1748

<!-- page 46 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
46A
(xxxi)Letters regarding calculating and offering bonus ;
(xxxii)Notification of retirements ;
(xxxiii)Behavior chart.
(a) In addition to the document of above (a), the other document which related to the employment of the
employee should be included in the personal file.
(4) Facts to be considered in maintaining personals files :
(a) No documents should be added to the personal file without notifying the employee. Yet a confidential report
may be entered to the personal file unknown to the employee regarding official matters by the appointment
executive or the executive of discipline if needed ;
(b) The office in charge of the personal file should be a capable officer sincere to the management who has a
good knowledge of the institutional subjects, circulars and the general low of the country ;
(c) Personal file should not given to be inspected to any person other than to the head of the institute or the
sectional head officer relevant to the subject ;
(d) All documents entered in the personal file should be filed under 4 whole systems, according to dated order
and numbered in serial order. Serial number should be entered in the notes sheet with a short note ;
(e) No document in the personal file should be removing from the file without the permition of the relevant
subject officer, event/file his to take a photocopy of a document in the file, his consent should be obtained
and a note should be entered about in the file  ;
(f) A content should be added to the inner page of the outer cover of the personal fils. The order of filling the
document in the personal file should be according to the content
(g) The employee is entrusted to inspect his own personal file once in five year’s time, if request is made the
subject head officer may give permission to inspect once own personal file in front of him.
(5) Documents should not be entered in the personal file :
(a) Workers appealing of difficulties ;
(b) Evidence reports, appointments of protectin officers, reports of the officer conducting disciplinary inquiries,
reports of the officers conducting the inquiry, and the reports of the protecting officers.
63. Submitting declarations of assents and liabilities.
A co-operative employee should forward a description of his/her and his/her dependents assets and liabilities per
5th supplement. Thereafter once every three year the asset and liability statement at 31st March of the year should be entered
and should send bofore 30th of June of the year. The society should keep this state mend saftey as a confidential documents.
The employee spouse own children adopted children and own parents or spouses parent living with the employee are ment
by employee dependents.
64. The EPT and the ETF.
All employees in co-operative society (permanent, casual agreement and quantity basis), should be joined to the
EPF and ETF.

<!-- page 47 -->

47AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
65. Welfare, training and development of the employeee.
(1) The committee must see that a well organized welfare system and encouraging systems are put into operations
so as the employees to give their fullest service to the society with much satisfaction. The following gaining’s may be
obtained.
(2) Enhancing Effectiveness and efficiency and maintainable the quality ir rely on employees training and Development
Provess. Therefore a program should enforce for the employees already in the society and to the staff who are newly
recrutied by indetifying the requirement for the relevant training.
(3) The executive committee is bound to provide each and every needed facility recommended by shops and offices
Act and other Acts.
66. The general laws and methods of letters exchanging.
(1) Always try to strict to one letter for one purpose.
(2) The file number should be stated in every letter.
(3) The date of the letter should be completed when signed by the respective officer.
(4) A short heading should be stated every letter so as to give an idea what the letter says about.
(5) When dealing with the people and the customers, addressing should be done according to the situation as
dearer. Mrs. Misact. When addressing priests it should be done honorably. (e.g. honorable/rev. etc.)
(6) If the receiver of the letter had been addressed with a prior letter/letters the date and the reference number of it/
them should be mentioned in the latest letter too.
(7) A paragraph for each fact should be separated. They may be numbered too if necessary.
(8) If it is stated in the letter that the copy/copies are attached, it is essential to attach the said copy. To avoid a miss,
the letter should be reread before enclosing.
(9) The name and designation of the officer signing the letter should be started (signing on a rubber stamp too, may
be done).
(10) If a letter is  signed for the written order of the relevant authority should be filed.
(11) The language of the letter should be simple, easily understood by the reader and should not have double or
hidden meaning facts.
(12) If official letters have written impulsively or partially, unexpected result may arise and the desired matter may
fade due to loss of quality of the letter.
67. Security of employees.
(1) Protection of the serviceman working in heavy work and dangerous work area should be cared more by supplying
them with head gears, gloves etc.
(2) Dangerous areas should be named so as to identify them clearly to avoid disaster by causeless entering to them.
(3) Other them to above, the rules and regulations regarding protection of employees under factory act should be
carried out.
(4) As co-operative employees to come under labour recompense act. The society is bound to act in accordance with
it.

<!-- page 48 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
48A
CHAPTER  VIII
REPEALING OF CIRCULARS AND RULES AND REGULA TION
68. All presured circulars and the scheme of work issued by the co-operative workers commission shall be repealed
as this scheme of regulation of Uva co-operative employee commission which contains order of the prepect 28 of Uva
Provincial Co-operative Employees Commission number 04 of 2010 is being implemented yet the circular No. 14/2009 of
24.12.2009 and its ending’s for revising of salaries shall be still valued. Above regulation should not be a barrier for further
continuation of low edictions started and crried out and carrying out under the co-operative employee’s scheme ofwork and
the circulars by this repealing.
69. The power of issuing circulars for furthers explanations of the order of the scheme of regulation is owned by the
Uva Provincial Co-operative Employees Commission and they should be considered as orders issued under these regulations.
70. If any doubt or problem airse or any interpretaion is needed and any matters not covered by these regulations,
should be conveyed to Uva Provincial Co-operative Employees Commission.
C
HAPTER  IX
GLOSSARY
71. Employer : the co-operative society registered under the co-operative  law, in which the employee works.
Employee : a person working in a registered co-operative society, obtaining salaries from its funds.
The society : an upper level society/boad which is a primary co-operative society or a member primary
co-op society
The worker/he/employee : should be understood according to the situation with gender neutrality.
The commission : The Uva Provincial Co-operative employee commission established under the precept
No. 04 of 2010 of Uva Provinvial Co-operative Employee Commission.
The commissioner ; The Uva Provincial Co-operative Development Commissioner/register of co-operative
society
Salary : salary without other allowance if any other definition is not given.
The Secretary : The secretary of the Uva Provincial Co-operative Employees’ Commission (when other
defination is not given)
The committee : The committee of member or the board of director who have undertaken the management
of work of a registered co-operative society, or officer appoint by the commissioner of
co-operative, for it.
Executive Officer : Persons working in a co-operative society, introduced as an executive officer in the
circulars issued by the co-operative commission.
Authority of discipline : The committee of the society, the employee working at.
Authority of appointment : The committee of the society the employee working at.
72. Should  any UN accordance be occurred between the Sinhala, Tamil, English language terms or words is
meaning, the Sinhala one should be considered as the original.

<!-- page 49 -->

49AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
01st supplement
Main details should be included in a newspaper advertisement to fill vacancies of employment.
(News) paper advertisement should be made to be published in a daily national newspaper including following
details and also special details if needed, according to the nature of the employment in a relevant minimum of language).
1. Name of society and address :
2. Name of employments/grade, class ;
3. Nature of employment (permanent/casual/contract) ;
4. Salary scale :
5. Other allowance :
6. Qualifications :
(i) Educational qualification ;
(ii) Vocational qualification ;
(iii) Vocational experience.
7. Age limit :
8. Privileges/concessions (in short) :
9. Way of obtaining application forms.
(Should the applicant him/herself prepare the applications or the way of obtaining the application form if the
society itself has prepared a prescribed application forms)
10. Closing date of application (at least 14 days should be given) :
11. The address of the registered post application should receive :
02nd supplement
Evaluation reports of an employee who is undergoing a probation period (moderns operation and assistant grades)
Evaluation
Perform .................................................................................................. to ..........................................................................
Name of society .........................................................................................................................
Section/branch .................................................................................................
Should be filled by (employee)

<!-- page 50 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
50A
Part I
1. Initial Details
1.1 Name :
1.2 Post :
1.3 Date of 1st appointment :
1.4 Date of birth :
2.Work done in the society :
2.1 Have you been given duty list ?
2.2 Mention here the duties and responsibilities you carry out ;
e.g. Maintaining of documents, files account reports and ledgers etc. Collecting of deatils and statistics recording
of details, work. if the employment is relevant to business matters, if engaged in field, relevant work, If assistant work it or any
others work assigned should mention here
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
3. Do you face the following problem when you carry out the work you have mentioned above ?
3.1 Not enough knowledge to do assigned work - Yes/no
3.2 Absence of the person to train work , Acknowledge or guide or get instructions - Yes/no
3.3 Had to self study work and carryout work - Yes/no
3.4 Did the number of times of false, lacking of work when on duty
-descend or ascend ?
4. Satisfaction of work
4.1 Can you be satisfied with the work you have done until now
Within this probation period of yours ? - Yes/no
4.2 Do you want to get your knowledge and
Skills regarding your post improved ? - Yes/no
4.3 Do you need trainings ? - Yes/no
4.4 If yes, regarding what subject ?
4.5 Do you like to be permanent at the end of your probation period? If not, do you expect the leave this job? If
so give reasons

<!-- page 51 -->

51AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
Evaluates (employees)
Signature :  ..................................................................................................
Name : .............................................................................................................
Designation : ..................................................................................................
Date : ................................................................................................................
Part II
Should be completed by the evaluating officer
5. (Cut off the unnecessary words)
5.1 knowledge and knowhow about work : very good/good/satisfactory/weak
5.2 Skillfulness in documentary work : very good/good/satisfactory/weak
5.3 Amount of work according to target : very good/good/satisfactory/weak
5.4 Method idealness : very good/good/satisfactory/weak
5.5 Correctness : very good/good/satisfactory/weak
5.6 Cleanliness : very good/good/satisfactory/weak
5.7 Responsibility and trustfulness : very good/good/satisfactory/weak
5.8 Tolerance of  a responsibility : very good/good/satisfactory/weak
5.9 Capability of working without other helps : very good/good/satisfactory/weak
5.10 W orking with the people : very good/good/satisfactory/weak
5.11 Co-operation and sociability : very good/good/satisfactory/weak
5.12 Creativity : very good/good/satisfactory/weak
5.13 Interest in work : very good/good/satisfactory/weak
5.14 Attendance : very good/good/satisfactory/weak
5.15 Conduct : very good/good/satisfactory/weak
5.16 Co-operation given in social work : very good/good/satisfactory/weak
5.17 Qualities in around performance : very good/good/satisfactory/weak

<!-- page 52 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
52A
Part III
6. Overall evaluation, observation and remarks
Above named employees work accomplishment was evacuated from .......................................to ....................................
and its overall quality is very good/good/satisfactory/ weak.
I forward the following observation
(If there are identified weaknesses of the employee, state them and state remidies to overall then and improve
capability)
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
Remarks :
(This evaluation should be done 06 monthly, and at the end of the 02 years summary of overall evaluation should be
given and forwarded to the committee with the recommendation of whether to make the employees post permanent or
conclude the service, withreason) ..........................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
.....................................................................................
General Manager/Chief Executive.
Date :
Above evaluation was acknowledge to me and I have noted it down
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
Signature of the evaluate :
Name :
03rd supplement
Model of an appointment letter to be issued in appoint for a permanent post my Reference
No. : .......................................................................................................................
Mr./ Mrs. : ...................................................................................................................

<!-- page 53 -->

53AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
..................................................................................................................... Society ltd. from.
Mr./Mrs./Miss. : ........................................................................................................................................................................
.............................................................................................................
.............................................................................................................
.............................................................................................................
Sir/Madam,
Appointment ....................................................to the post of ................................................ .....grade of
class.......................................................... I am pleased to inform that you have been appointed to the post  of
.......................................................grade of class ...................................................... of .............................................................................
Society Ltd. from ................................................................................ your serving station is
...........................................................................
02. This post is permanent and you have to become a member of the EPF and ETF :
03. Your appointment will be valued from the date you assume duties, you will be under a probation period for
02 years from the date of your appointment
04. Your service will be evaluate during your period of probation and if your service is found to be unsatisfactory
during you probtion period or at the end of it, your service may be concluded. If your service is satisfactory
during your probation period, you will be granted the permanent post from the day you assume duty :
05. If your educational qualifications or work experience and vocational qualifications you have forwarded were
found false in any movement, your service would be concluded immediately :
06. According to the circular number .................................. dated .................................. of co-operative employees
commission, your post is entitled for the salary scale of ................................................... and you will be
established in ............................................... step of the scale :
07. You will be under the rules and regulation of the co-operative employees’ commission, the rule and regulations
and orders of the constitution applied by the society, order that may be declared by the co-operative
development commissioner/register and the orders and regulation of the co-operative employees’ commission :
08. Also you are bound to work according to the rules and regulations and standing orders applied by
........................................................................ society Ltd.
09. You have to undergo a medical inspection from a Government Hospital to prove you are physically fit to
carry out your duties of your post satisfactorily and to work in any area within the boundary of the society.
You must forward the prescribed form-169 attached to this letter to the Medical Officer of the nearest
hospital and face the medical inspection on a date given by him your appointment would be cancelled if you
are proved by medically unsuitable, at the medical inspection :
10. You have to fill in the attached assets declaration from and forward to the society Ltd. as three copies :
11. You are bound to serve within the boundary area of the society and also at any service station established
in area basis ordered by the society :
12. You have to depost Rs. ................................................ in cash at the society as a employees security. This cash
security may vary according to the nature of duties and responsilibity of the employment :
13. You will be handed over a duties list after you assume duties ;

<!-- page 54 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
54A
14. If you hope to leave the job or resign from the job you have to either give resignation one month prior you
leave to the society or pay your one month salary back to the society :
15. If you wish to accept the employment under the conditions and instructions given his/her, signature the
attached work assuming letter and hand it over to me
With the consent of the committee,
.................................................................
Chairman.
Hon. Chairman,
..................................................................................... society ltd.
Sir,
Assuming duties of the post of .................................................................................................................of here by inform
you that I assumed duties of the post of ........................................ from .............................................................by agreeing to all
conditions and instructions stated in the appointment letter dated ........................................ and Reference No.
............................................. issued to me by the Chairman of .................................................society ltd.
                                                            Yours truly,
Signature : .....................................................................
Name : ............................................................................
Here by I certify that above mentioned Mr./Mrs./Miss. ...................................................................assumed duties of the
post of ......................................................................................... of this society.
Copy : to personal file
.......................................................................
Chairman/Secretary/General Manager.
04th supplement
There report to be filled and sent to the co-operative employees commission when forwarding an appeals.
Address : ................................................................................
Date : ......................................................................................
Secretary,
Uva Provincial Co-operative Employees Commission,
..............................................................................................
..............................................................................................
The appeals, forwarding under sub-chapter 58(2)(a) of the scheme of regulations of Co-operative Employees Commission
I .........................................................................., signed below, here by forward the following details and appeals to the
Co-operative Employees Commission for a relief from the decision given against me.
01. Name in  full : .....................................................................................................................................................................
02. Residential Address : ...................................................................................................................................................

<!-- page 55 -->

55AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
03. Post held, when handing over the charge sheet : ....................................................................................................
04. Is the post permanent or casual : ...............................................................................................................................
05. If interdicted, the date : ...............................................................................................................................................
06. Date of first appointment : ..........................................................................................................................................
07. Date of promotion : ......................................................................................................................................................
08. Name of the society : ...................................................................................................................................................
09. Causes for punishment : .....................................................................................................................................................
10. Punishment given : .......................................................................................................................................................
11. Were inquiries held regarding this : ...........................................................................................................................
12. If yes, started date : ......................................................................................................................................................
13. The name and designation of the officer held the inquiry : ...................................................................................
14. The date of informing you of the society decision : ................................................................................................
15. Reasons for the appeals : ............................................................................................................................................
.........................................................................................................................................................................................
.........................................................................................................................................................................................
16. The relief expected by the applicant ?
(i) Regain the service ?
(ii) Get the salary-arrears ?
(iii) Get removed the fine ?
(iv) Anyother relief ? (mention)
I certify that the above information’s are ture and I have/will not forward an appeals to a labour court under chapter
31(a) of the labour strife act. If there’s any false mentioned here by me, I know that this appeals would be refused.
Applicant’s signature :
Date :
Name of society :  ...............................................................................
Copy : General Manager.
When an second appeals is being forwarded, relevant reasons should be stated according to chapter 5.10, 1 of this
edition the following part should be filled by the trade union if the appeal is being conveyed via a trade union.
Forward to the co-operative emplyees commission on behalf of Mr./ Mrs. /Miss. ..................................................................
a member of the trade union .......................................................................
Signture :
Secretary/Chairman.
Name of trade union :
Date :

<!-- page 56 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
56A
05th supplement
Declaration of assets
(1) Name : ............................................................................................................................................................................
(2) Designation : .................................................................................................................................................................
(3) Grade/class : ...................................................................................................................................................................
(4) Name of society : ..........................................................................................................................................................
(5) Official Address : ...........................................................................................................................................................
(6) Personal Address :  ......................................................................................................................................................
(a) Monthly salary : ................................................................................
(b) Monthly allowance : ..........................................................................
(7) Name of spouse, if married : .......................................................................................................................................
(8) If spouse occupied : ....................................................................................................................................................
(a) His/her occupation : ................................................................................
(b) Monthly salary  : ..........................................................................
(9) Names and ages if having children : ..........................................................................................................................
(10) Names and relationship of dependents : ..................................................................................................................
(11) Assets declaration as at : ............................................................................................................................................
01. Supply the following details of you, your husband/wife, children and dependents bank accounts :
Name of bank Account no Name of account Balance up to date Date, the account was
holder opened
02. If you have deposited money in the name of your wife/husband, children, dependents in sawing certificate or
revenue tax certificates or Government Saving Papers, details them.
Certificates holders name Invested amount Date of invested

<!-- page 57 -->

57AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
03. If you have got assets under mortgage basis to your wife/husband, children or dependents,
details : .....................................................................................................................................................................................
...................................................................................................................................................................................................
........................................................................................
01. If you, your wife/husband children, dependents have invested money in any business give details.
Name of the Investors Name Invested amount date of invested
business
02. If there are safe-space in a bank to you, your wife/husband, children to dependents, give
details : .....................................................................................................................................................................................
...................................................................................................................................................................................................
........................................................................................
03. Details about money of you, your wife/husband, children or dependents in custody of someone else of an
institute :
...................................................................................................................................................................................................
.........................................................................................
04. Details of jewellary, gold, silver, pearl, genetic, belonging to you, your wife/husband, or
children
dependents  : .....................................................................................................................................................................................
...................................................................................................................................................................................................
05. If there are any other businesses belonging to you your wife/husband, children or dependents give details :
...................................................................................................................................................................................................
.........................................................................................
06. Give details of, if your wife/husband, children or dependents own any motor boats, motor bicycle or any other
motor vehicles :
Kind  of vehicles Make Registered number Date bought V alue

<!-- page 58 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
58A
07. Details of all assets belonging to you, your, wife/husband, children or dependernts up to dates :
Name of land Situation Owners name If there a How owned Whether an
and extent house, its value agriculcural land or
barren land
08. If your wife/husband, children or dependents have borrowed money, give details :
Borrowed amount of Date borrowed Borrowed from whom Guarantees Loan areas up to date
money
(12) ......................................................................................................assure those above details given above, by use
are true and corrrect.
........................................................................................................
........................................................................................................
Signature date :
06th supplement
Main details should be included in a temporary basis appointment letter
1. Name and address of employee :
2. Designations :
3. Date of temporary basic appointment :
4. Period appointed for (maximum 6 months) :
5. Salary paying basis (daily/monthly) :

<!-- page 59 -->

59AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
6. Membership of EPF/ETF :
7. Should obey the regulations of society and obey the scheme of orders and regulations of co-operative
emplyees’ commission and also the order and regualtion applied from time to time by the director board :
8. Acknowledge the appointee that this appointment does not apply for any means of way to get a permanent
post ;
9. A temporary employee will not get the privilege that a permanent employee gets and that, if a temporary
employee tries to demand or influence for them his/her service would be stopped immediately :
07th supplement
Details to be included in a agreement basis appointment letter
In this basis an agreement should be signed between the society and the appointee. The following details should
be included in that agreement.
1. Name of the society and the appointee :
2. Designation :
3. The period of contracted service as approved by the commission :
4. Contracted service ending date and if the agreement cancelled before that date the conditions applying :
5. The monthly allowance to be paid as approved by the commission :
6. Leave facilities :
7. Other conditions and order may be suitable as per allotment of duties in the society :
8. Should be worked in accordance with the sub-constitution of the society, scheme of regulations and orders
of the commission.
09 - 606/2
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.