

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
FINANCE ACT, No. 5 OF 2005
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 30th March, 2005]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs. 12.25 Postage : Rs. 7.50
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 01, 2005

<!-- page 2 -->

1Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005
2—P.L 000038–5,650 (02/2005)
[Certified on 30th March, 2005]
L.D.—O. 59/2004.
A N  ACT  TO  MAKE  PROVISION  FOR  THE  IMPOSITION  OF  CERTAIN  LEVIES
CONSEQUENTIAL  TO  THE  2005 BUDGET  PROPOSALS  ; AND  TO  MAKE
PROVISION FOR  MATTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005.
PART I
IMPOSITION  OF  SOCIAL  RESPONSIBILITY  LEVY
2. A levy to be called the Social Responsibility Levy
shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, be imposed with
effect from the year commencing on January 1, 2005 and for
every year thereafter, at the rate of 0.25 per centum on all
taxes and levies chargeable in terms of the provisions of the
enactments specified in the First Schedule to this Act. The
funds so collected by way of the Social Responsibility Levy
shall be disbursed for meeting any expenditure incurred for
the implementation of activities connected with the National
Action Plan for Children, approved by the Government :
Provided that the imposition of the Social Responsibility
Levy in terms of the provisions of this Part of this Act, on income
tax chargeable under the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act,
No. 38 of 2000, shall be effective from April 1, 2005.
3. The Social Responsibility Levy collectable in terms
of section 2 shall be collected at the time of payment of such
taxes or levies, by the relevant authorities administering such
enactments as are specified in the First Schedule to this Act
and shall be credited to a special account operated for such
purpose. The money so collected shall be remitted to the
Consolidated Fund within fifteen days from the date of the
collection of such money by the relevant authorities.
Short title.
Imposition of
Social
Responsibility
Levy.
Social
Responsibility
Levy to be
collected by
relevant
authorities.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005
4. Every relevant authority administering the
enactments specified in the First Schedule shall maintain
records of all amounts collected by such authorities in relation
to the Social Responsibility Levy chargeable by such
authorities in terms of the provisions of the respective
enactments specified in the Schedule to this Act.
5. (1) Any person to whom the provisions of this Part of
this Act applies, who fails to pay the total amount of the
Social Responsibility Levy in terms of section 2, shall be
deemed to be a defaulter and where such defaulter is a body
corporate, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, any director
or principal officer of such body corporate shall be deemed
to be a defaulter for the purposes of this Part of this Act, and
such Levy as is not paid on or before the due date shall be
deemed to be a Levy in default.
(2) The defaulter shall be liable to pay a surcharge in
addition to the Social Responsibility Levy in default,
calculated—
(a) at the rate of ten per centum of the amount of such
levy as is in default for the subsequent period of one
month or part thereof, from the due date for the
payment of the Levy under section 2 ; and
(b) at the rate two per centum of the amount of such
Levy as is in default for each subsequent period of
one month or part thereof, from the due date for the
payment specified in paragraph (a),
which surcharge shall be collected by the relevant authorities
administering the enactments specified in the First Schedule
to this Act.
(3) The relevant authorities administering the enactments
specified in the First Schedule shall take action to recover
the Social Responsibility Levy or such part of the Levy which
is in default for a period of more than three months, and the
amount of the surcharge accrued thereon, in the manner as is
specified hereafter.
Maintenance
of records.
Action in
cases of
failure to pay
levy.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005
(4) The relevant authorities administering the enactments
specified in the First Schedule shall cause to be issued on the
defaulter, three weeks prior to the taking of any steps for the
recovery of the Social Responsibility Levy in default along
with the amount of the surcharge accrued thereon, a Notice,
informing the defaulter of the intention of the relevant
authorities administering the encatments specified in the First
Schedule to institute proceedings for the recovery of the
amount of the Social Responsibility Levy in default and the
amount of the surcharge accrued thereon, in terms of the
provisions of this section.
(5) Where the relevant authorities administering the
enactments specified in the First Schedule issues Notice on
the defaulter in terms of subsection (4) but the amount of the
Social Responsibility Levy in default and the amount of the
surcharge accrued thereon remains unpaid even though the
period of three weeks specified in such Notice has elapsed,
the relevant authorities administering the enactments
specified in the First Schedule shall issue to the Magistrate
having jurisdiction over the division in which the defaulter
resides or is carrying on business, a Certificate containing
the name and address of the defaulter and the total sum in
default along with a statement to the effect that the person so
named has defaulted in making the payment as required by
this section. Where the defaulter is a body corporate, the
Certificate shall contain the name of the Chairman, the Board
of Directors and of every Director of such body corporate.
(6) The Magistrate shall on receipt of the Certificate issued
under subsection (5), issue summons on the defaulter
requiring him to appear before him on a date to be specified
and show cause as to why proceedings should not be taken
against him for the recovery of the amount of the Social
Responsibility Levy or such part of the Levy which is in
default and the amount of the surcharge accrued thereon.
Where the cause shown appears to the Magistrate to be
insufficient so as to explain the reason for the non-payment,
the Magistrate shall after recording the same, make order for

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005
the recovery of the amount of the Social Responsibility Levy
in default and the amount of the surcharge accrued thereon,
from the defaulter as if it were a fine imposed by the Magistrate.
The money so recovered shall be remitted  to the respective
relevant authorities administering the enactments specified
in the First Schedule who shall credit the same to the
Consolidated Fund.
6. (1) The provisions of this Part of the Act shall be
deemed for all purposes to have come into operation on
January 1, 2005.
(2) Where any amount has been collected by the relevant
authorities administering the enactments specified in the First
Schedule, as Social Responsibility Levy in terms of this Part
of the Act during the period commencing on January 1, 2005
and ending on the date of the commencement of this Act, the
Social Responsibility Levy so collected shall be deemed to
have been validly collected and the respective relevant
authorities are hereby indemnified from any action civil or
criminal in respect of the collection of the aforesaid Levy.
PART II
IMPOSITION   OF   SHARE   TRANSACTION   LEVY
7. There shall be imposed with effect from the year
commencing on January 1, 2005 and for every year thereafter,
a levy to be called the Share Transaction Levy at the rate of
0.2 per centum from every buyer and seller, on the turnover
of every share trading transaction, which is conducted through
a Stock Exchange.
8. The Share Transaction Levy so imposed shall be
collected by the relevant stockbroker, stock dealer or
custodian bank as the case may be, who is responsible for the
settlement of such share transaction. The ShareTransaction
Levy so collected in terms of section 7 shall be paid to the
stock exchange through which the share transaction took
place, at the time of making settlement of such share
transaction by the respective stockbroker, stock dealer or
Imposition of
Share
Transaction
Levy.
Date of
operation of this
Part and
indemnity.
Share
Transaction
Levy to be
collected by
relevant
stockbroker &c.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005
Returns to be
furnished of
collections.
custodian bank, as the case may be. The Stock Exchange
shall remit the levy so collected to the Commissioner-General
within three working days from the date of such settlement.
9. The Stock Exchange shall furnish to the
Commissioner-General, a monthly statement giving the total
turnover in respect of which the Share Transaction Levy has
been remitted to the Commissioner-General within fifteen
days from the last day of each month.
10. (1) Any stockbroker, stock dealer or custodian bank
as the case may be, to whom the provisions of this part of this
Act applies, who fails to pay the total amount of the Share
Transaction Levy in terms of sections 7 and 8, shall be deemed
to be a defaulter, and where such defaulter is a body corporate,
the Chairman of the Board of Directors and every Director or
principal officer of such body corporate shall be deemed to
be a defaulter for the purposes of this Part of this Act, and
such Levy as is not paid on or before the due date shall be
deemed to be a Levy in default.
(2) The defaulter shall be liable to pay a surcharge in
addition to the Share Transaction Levy in default,
calculated—
(a) at the rate of ten per centum of the amount of such
levy as is in default for the subsequent period of one
month or part thereof, from the due date for the
payment of the Levy under section 8 ; and
(b) at the rate of two per centum of the amount of such
Levy as is in default for each subsequent period of
one month or part thereof, from the due date for the
payment specified in paragraph (a),
which surcharge shall be collected by the Commissiner-General.
(3) The Commissioner-General shall take action to recover
the Share Transaction Levy or such part of the Levy which is
in default for a period of more than three months and the
amount of the surcharge accrued thereon, in the manner as is
specified hereafter.
Action in case of
failure to pay
levy.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005
(4) The Commissioner-General shall cause to be issued on
the defaulter, three weeks prior to the taking of any steps for
the recovery of the Share Transaction Levy in default along
with the amount of the surcharge accrued thereon, a Notice,
informing the defaulter of the intention   of  the
Commissioner-General to institute proceedings for the
recovery of the amount of the Share Transaction Levy in
default and the amount of the surcharge accrued thereon in
terms of the provisions of this section.
(5) Where the Commissioner-General issues Notice on the
defaulter in terms of subsection (4) but the amount of the
Share Transaction Levy in default and the amount of the
surcharge accrued thereon remains unpaid even though the
period of three weeks specified in such Notice has elapsed,
the Commissioner-General shall issue to the Magistrate
having jurisdiction over the division in which the defaulter
resides or is carrying on business, a Certificate containing
the name and address of the defaulter and the total sum in
default along with a statement to the effect that the person so
named has defaulted in making the payment as required by
this section, Where the defaulter is a body corporate, the
Certificate shall contain the name of the Chairman of the
Board of Directors and of  every Director or principal officer
of such body corporate.
(6) The Magistrate shall on receipt of the Certificate issued
under subsection (5), issue summons on the defaulter
requiring him to appear before him on a date to be specified
and show cause as to why proceedings should not be taken
against him for the recovery of the amount of the Share
Transaction Levy or such part of the Levy which is in default
and the surcharge accrued thereon. Where the cause shown
appears to the Magistrate to be insufficient so as to  explain
the reason for the non-payment, the Magistrate shall after
recording the same, make order for the recovery of the amount
of the Share Transaction Levy in default and the amount of
the surcharge accrued thereon, from the defaulter as if it were
a fine imposed by the Magistrate. The money so recovered
shall be remitted to the Commissioner-General, who shall
credit the same to the Consolidated Fund.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005
Date of
operation of this
Part and
indemnity.
Interpretation for
Part II.
11. In this Part of the Act, unless the context otherwise
requires,—
“Commissioner-General” means the Commissioner-
General of Inland Revenue appointed in terms of
the Inland Revenure Act, No. 38 of 2000 ;
“custodian bank” means any Bank licensed by the Central
Bank of Sri Lanka providing custody services in
respect of share transactions ;
“stockbroker” means any individual or body corporate
engaged in the business of buying or selling of
securities on behalf of investors in return for a
commission ;
“stock dealer” means any individual or body corporate
engaged in the business of buying or selling of
securities or in the dealing or jobbing or trading of
securities, or the underwriting or retailing of
securities ; and
“stock exchange” means a market, exchange, or other place
at which securities are regularly offered for sale,
purchase or exchange, including any services
connected with such business.
12. (1) The provisions of this Part of the Act shall be
deemed for all purposes to have come into operation on
January 1, 2005.
(2) Where any amount has been collected by the
Commissiner-General as Share Transaction Levy in terms of
this Part of the Act during the period commencing on
January 1, 2005 and ending on the date of the commencement
of this Act, the Share Transaction Levy so collected shall be
deemed to have been validly collected and the
Commissioner-General is hereby indemnified from any action
civil or criminal in respect of the collection of the aforesaid
Levy.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005
PART III
CONSTRUCTION  INDUSTRY  GUARANTEE  FUND  LEVY
13. There shall be imposed with effect from the year
commencing on January 1, 2005 and for every year thereafter,
a levy to be called the Construction Industry Guarantee Fund
Levy on every construction contract enforced in Sri Lanka
by every construction contractor on their contract value
arising from any contract entered into on or after that date,
calculated at the rates set out in the Second Scheule to this
Act. The percentage of the Construction Industry Guarantee
Fund Levy so calculated shall be based on the total cost
which shall be payable by each contractor or sub-contractor
as the case may be, even if the individual sub-contract value
is lower than the amounts specified in the Second Schedule
to this Act.
14. The Construction Industry Guarantee Fund Levy
payable under section 13 shall be remitted by the construction
contractor to the Institute for Construction Training and
Development (hereinafter referred to as “ICTAD”) at the time
that the contractor receives each contract payment.
15. The Construction Industry Guarantee Fund Levy,
collected by ICTAD on behalf of the Government in respect
of each contract in terms of section 13, shall be credited
within fifteen days from the end of every month as provided
for in section 13 to the Consolidated Fund along with a
monthly statement setting out the basis of the calculation of
the amount payable as the Construction Industry Guarantee
Fund Levy.
16. The Secretary to the Treasury may from time to time
issue guidelines in relation to the collection and remittence
of the Construction Industry Guarantee Fund Levy on behalf
of the Government.
Imposition of
Construction
Industry
Guarantee Fund
Levy.
Mode of
collection of
Construction
Industry
Guarantee Fund
Levy.
ICTAD to collect
the Construction
Industry
Guarantee Fund
Levy on behalf
of the
Government.
Secretary to the
Treasury to issue
guidelines.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005
17. ICTAD shall furnish within thirty days after the last
day of the year to which the collection of the Construction
Industry Guarantee Fund Levy relates, a statement containing
such information as may be specified by the Secretary to the
Treasury.
18. ICTAD shall maintain a record of all amounts
collected by it in relation to the turnover on every contract
entered into on or after January 1, 2005, by the relevant
contractors and the reconciliation of the statement relating
to the collection of the Construction Industry Guarantee Fund
Levy.
19. (1) Any construction contractor to whom the
provisions of this Part of this Act applies, who fails to pay the
total amount of the Construction Industry Guarantee Fund
Levy in terms of section 13, shall be deemed to be a defaulter
and where such defaulter is a body corporate, the Chairman
of the Board of Directors, any director or principal officer of
such body corporate shall be deemed to be a defaulter for the
purposes of this Part of this Act, and such Levy as is not paid
on or before the due date shall be deemed to be a Levy in
default.
(2) The defaulter shall be liable to pay a surcharge in
addition to the Construction Industry Guarantee Fund Levy
in default, calculated—
(a) at the rate of ten per centum of the amount of such
levy as is in default for the subsequent period of one
month or part thereof, from the due date for the
payment of the Levy under section 16 ; and
(b) at the rate of two per centum of such Levy as is in
default for each subsequent period of one month or
part thereof, from the due date for the payment
specified in paragraph (a),
which surcharge shall be collected by ICTAD.
Statements to be
furnished of
collection.
Maintenance of
records.
Action in cases
of failure to pay
levy.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005
(3) ICTAD shall take action to recover the Construction
Industry Guarantee Fund Levy or such part of the Levy which
is in default for a period of more than three months, and the
amount of the surcharge accrued thereon, in the manner as is
specified hereafter.
(4) ICTAD shall cause to be issued on the defaulter, three
weeks prior to the taking of any steps for the recovery of the
Construction Industry Guarantee Fund Levy in default and
the amount of the surcharge accrued thereon, a Notice,
informing the defaulter of the intention of  ICTAD to institute
proceedings for the recovery of the amount of the
Construction Industry Guarantee Fund Levy in default and
the amount of the surcharge accrued thereon in terms of the
provisions of this section.
(5) Where ICTAD issues Notice on the defaulter in terms
of subsection (4) but the amount of the Construction Industry
Guarantee Fund Levy in default and the surcharge thereon
remains unpaid even though the period of three weeks
specified in such Notice has elapsed, ICTAD shall issue to
the Magistrate having jurisdiction over the division in which
the defaulter resides or is carrying on business, a Certificate
containing the name and address of the defaulter and the
total sum in default along with a statement to the effect that
the person so named has defaulted in making the payment as
required by this section. Where the defaulter is a body
corporate, the Certificate shall contain the name of the
Chairman of the Board of Directors and of every Director or
the principal officer of such body corporate.
(6) The Magistrate shall on receipt of the Certificate issued
under subsection (5), issue summons on the defaulter
requiring him to appear before  him on a date to be specified
and show cause as to why proceedings should not be taken
against him for the recovery of the amount of the Construction
Industry Guarantee Fund Levy or such part of the Levy which
is in default and the amount of the surcharge accrued thereon.
Where the cause shown appears to the Magistrate to be
insufficient so as to explain the reason for the non-payment,

<!-- page 12 -->

11Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005
the Magistrate shall after recording the same, make order for
the recovery of the amount of the Construction Industry
Guarantee Fund Levy in default and the amount of the
surcharge accrued thereon, from the defaulter as if it were a
fine imposed by the Magistrate. The money so recovered
shall be remitted to ICTAD who shall credit the same to the
Consolidated Fund.
20. In this Part of this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires—
“construction contractor” means the person or persons or
organization or organizations named as the
contractor in a bid or who is otherwise accepted by
the employer as the person or organisation
responsible for the implementation, completion and
maintenance of the construction works being carried
out under the terms of such contract ;
“contract value” means the amount or the amounts stated
in the letters of acceptance and which are thereafter
adjusted in accordance with the provisions of the
contract. The said contract value shall be the sum
total of individual contracts or of several contracts
which have been entered into in respect of the
carrying out of the construction of the project and
shall include sub-contract values, supply contract
values and such other construction costs that may
be incurred in carrying out the works ; and
“The Institution for Construction, Training and
Development (ICTAD)” means the industrial
undertaking constituted and established by Order
made under section 3 of the State Industrial
Corporations Act, No. 49 of 1957 and published in
Gazette Extraordinary No. 718/15 of June 10, 1992.
21. The provisions of this Part of this Act shall be deemed
for all purposes to have come into operation with effect from
January 1, 2005.
Interpretation for
Part III.
Operation of the
provisions of this
Part.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005
22. The amount charged and collected by ICTAD as
Construction Industry Guarantee Fund Levy in terms of this
Part of the Act, during the period commencing from January
1, 2005 and ending on the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be deemed to have been so validly charged and levied
and ICTAD is hereby indemnified from any action civil or
criminal in respect of the collection of such levy.
PART IV
A
MENDMENT  OF  FINANCE  ACT , NO . 11 OF  2002
23. The Finance Act, No. 11 of 2002 is hereby amended
in section 2 of Part I of that Act, (Port and Airport Development
Levy) by the repeal of the proviso to that section and the
substitution therefor of the following :—
“Provided that, in respect of the cost, insurance and freight
value of any article referred to above, there shall, with effect
from November 19, 2004, be charged and levied a levy at the
rate of 1.5 per centum :
Provided further, that in the case of an article imported
into Sri Lanka for the purpose of processing and re-export,
the levy on the cost, insurance and freight value of that
atricle—
(a) for the period Commencing on January 1, 2003 and
ending on December 31, 2004 shall be charged and
levied at the rate of 0.5 per centum ; and
(b) for the period commencing on January 1, 2005, shall
be charged and levied at the rate of 0.25 per centum.”.
24. Where an amount equal to one per centum on the on
the cost, insurance and freight value of such article has been
collected by the Director-General of Customs as Port and
Airport Levy in terms of this Part of this Act during the period
commencing on November 19, 2004 and ending on the date
Indemnity.
Amendment of
section 2 of Part
I of the Finance
Act, No. 11 of
2002.
Indemnity.

<!-- page 14 -->

13Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005
of commenement of this Act, from any person importing, an
article as is referred to in Part I of the Finance Act, No. 11 of
2002, such collection shall be deemed for all purposes to
have been and to be, validly made, and the Director-General
of Customs is hereby indemnified against all action civil or
criminal, in respect of such collection.
PART V
G
ENERAL
25. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
all matters which are required by this Act to be prescribed or
in respect of which regulations are required or authorized to
be made under this Act.
(2) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of publication, or on such later date as may be
specified therein.
(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall, as
soon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be
placed before Parliament for approval. Every regulation which
is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from
the date of disapproval, but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.
(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
26. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Regulations.

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005
FIRST SCHEDULE (Section 2)
1. The Excise Ordinance (Chapter 52).
2. The Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235).
3. The Excise (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989.
4. The Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000. (Other than the
provisions of Chapter XV, XVI, XVII and Section 33 and
Section 61).
S
ECOND  SCHEDULE (Section 13)
Value of Construction Rates applicable for the
 Contract calculation of the Levy
1. Where the value of the construction
contract is less than rupees fifteen million Nil
2. Where the value of the construction
contract is not less than rupees fifteen
million and not exceeding rupees fifty
million 0.25 per centum
3. Where  the value  of  the  construction
contract is not less than rupees fifty million
and not exceeding rupees one hundred and
fifty million 0.5 per centum
4. Where the value of the construction
contract is rupees one hundred and fifty
million or above 1 per centum

<!-- page 16 -->

15Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT   PUBLICATIONS  B UREAU , NO . 32,
TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,  LOTUS   ROAD ,  COLOMBO  01  before  15th  December  each  year  in  respect
of the year following.