

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'03
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.03.2016
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1956$27 - 2016 ud¾;= ui 03 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2016'03'03
No. 1956/27 -  THURSDAY   MARCH  03,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Proclamations & c., by the President
MAITHRIPALA S IRISENA,
President.
PRESIDENTIAL   DIRECTIVE
    Establishment of a Special Agency by His Excellency the President in the exercise of powers vested in His Excellency
by Article 33 (2) of  the Constitution of  the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, to advise and assist the Government
in the formulation and implementation of a National Wage Policy by conducting a carder  assessment and reviewing all
remuneration structures including the salaries and wages in the Public Sector in order to facilitate due fulfilment of manpower
needs in the Public Sector and the Private Sector as a whole, aimed at enhancing efficiency and productivity of the Public
Sector in duly achieving the aspirations of  the people within the framework of good governance.
To :
1. K. L. L. Wijeratne Esquire
2. Nimal Bandara Esquire
3. Dayananda Vidanagamachchi Esquire
4. J. Charitha Rathwaththe Esquire
5. Prof. Kithsiri Madapatha Liyanage Esquire
6. Leslie Shelton Devendra Esquire
7. Suresh Shah Esquire
8. Sanath Jayantha Ediriweera Esquire
9. V . Regunathan Esquire
10. Kamal Mustapha Esquire
11. Prof. Gunapala Nanayakkara Esquire
12. Nandapala Wickramasuriya Esquire
13. Madam Sujatha  Cooray
14. Gerry Jayawardena Esquire
15. S. Thillainadarajah Esquire
1A
 Seal
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'03
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.03.2016
2A
16. Dr. Anura Ekanayake Esquire
17. Sembakuttige Swarnajothi Esquire
18. P. K. U. Nilantha Piyaratne Esquire
19. N. H. Pathirana Esquire
20. H. T. Dayananda Esquire
21. T. B. Maduwegedera Esquire
22. Dr. Wimal Karandagoda Esquire
23. A. Kadiravelupillai Esquire
Greetings :
Whereas, having duly recognized the manpower needs of public and the private sector in the process of achieving
the targets of  the Medium Term Economic Development Framework presented by the new  Government and to meet the
aspirations of the people, the Government proposed to offer a package of incentives to recruit and retain in the public
service personnel who are competent and capable of handling the task of efficient delivery of services, facilitation of the
development process and carrying out regulatory functions, where necessary.
AND WHEREAS, the Government has recognized the need to make the employees of  the entire public sector as
well as the private sector a contented and motivated lot;
AND  WHEREAS,  it is considered necessary to take note of the structural changes underway in the economy in
diverting human resources to different sectors and that the cost of labour is maintained at a competitive level favourable to
Sri Lanka by raising productivity of the labour force to international competitive levels ;
AND  WHEREAS it is recognized that inappropriate competition between the public sector and private sector as a
whole as well as amongst various institutions within the public sector be avoided in the fulfillment of manpower needs of
the country.
AND  WHEREAS the Government has recognized the need to gear up the public sector to achieve high levels of
productivity and efficiency and to help eliminate current drawbacks in the fulfillment of manpower needs of the private
sector.
AND  WHEREAS the Government is conscious of the prevailing practices of recruitment and determination of
salaries and wages and the need to rationalize cadre requirement of public sector institutions consistent with efficient and
productive service delivery.
AND  WHEREAS difficulties are being experienced in recruiting and retaining professionals to Government
Departments due to the payment of widely different salaries and remunerations in the Semi- Government sector such as
State Corporations and State Banks to those with equal academic, professional qualifications who discharge almost similar
responsibilities in the public service.
AND WHEREAS having recognized the need to put in place suitable special methodologies by the introduction of
salary scales exclusively for competent individuals specialized in the fields of Management, Science and Technology as
well as for professionals with particular expertise in order to attract them to the Public Sector at present and in the near
future to efficiently fulfill the role of the Public Sector in the economic development process, thereby more meaningfully
implement government economic policy and to introduce necessary changes to conditions of employment.
AND WHEREAS it is considered appropriate to introduce part time or any other suitable employment scheme that
could enhance productivity and competitiveness by attracting skilled workers who are inclined to serve for shorter period
that is required in the case of permanent service and create alternative conditions consistent with prevailing unemployment
rates and the aging of the population.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'03
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.03.2016
3A
AND WHEREAS being aware that the recurrent expenditure of the Government is at excessive level and recognizing
the need for the most appropriate methodologies to be adopted within the limits of Government funds to provide non-
monetary incentives after review of the various incentives and reward schemes including gratiuties currently being operated
by certain government institutions.
AND WHEREAS  realizing the need for the settlement of disputes that have arisen in relation to the existing
salaries and wages, cadre and conditions of service, schemes of recruitment and promotion and Service Minutes.
AND WHEREAS  the Government has identified the need to introduce appropriate methodologies guaranteeing a
suitable minimum wage, security of employment and provision of essential welfare amenities to the employees based on a
scientific analysis of the current socio-economic and public finance situation to ensure the flow of benefits of economic
development to the community as a whole.
AND WHEREAS  giving highest priority to all aforesaid the Government is desirous of establishing a Salaries and
Cadre Commission (hereinafter referred to as the Commission) for the purpose of  :
a. Reviewing the currently sanctioned staff for each institution in the public sector as a whole including the
Provincial Councils and propose an optimal staff for each such institution.
b. Recommending proposals to bring about a fundamental change in the current management systems and
the administrative ethos in the public service in such a way as to facilitate the achievement of set objectives
and evaluation of performance with a view to enhancing productivity of the public service.
c. Formulating innovative schemes to determine and adjust salaries, wages, annual bonus, various other
incentives (such as new productivity, circle allowance etc.) of the public service in keeping with the
current accelerated Economic Development Programme which is based on the concept of good governance.
d. Making recommendations for the introduction of a suitable salaries and wages structure for the public
service including the Provincial Public Service ; Semi-Government service including State Corporation,
State Enterprises and Statutory Boards, Central Bank of Sri Lanka and State Banking sector ; Armed
Services ; Universities and Special Institutions for which legislative provisions have been made for the
salaries and  emoluments of staff to be charged on the Consolidated Fund ; with focus on matters referred
Preamble.
e. Recommending a suitable National Salaries and Wages Policy in order to prevent inappropriate competition
that may arise in diverting manpower resources to the Public Sector Institution including those referred
to at (d) above and the private sector.
f. Initiating such action as is deemed appropriate until such time that a National Salary and Wage Policy is
formulated and implemented as mentioned at (e) above ; to minimize the issues identified in relation to
salaries, staff and Service Minutes in giving effect to the Public Administration and Management Circular
No. 30  or salary anomalies occasioned by the salary increases granted and to act as an arbitrator and in
such instances to provide solutions having regard to the National Salaries and Wages Policy to be formulated
in the future.
g. Making recommendations regarding the methodology to be adopted in the payment or revision of pensions
consequent to salary increases effected in the public sector from time to time.
h. Formulating a methodology and submit recommendations to the Government on the implementation of a
contributory pension scheme for employees of the public service.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'03
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.03.2016
4A
AND WHEREAS  I am of the view that the execution of the duties and responsibilities the said Commission is
entrusted with, as indentified above, should commence immediately in the public service.
Now, therefore, I, Maithripala Sirisena, President, in pursuance of the provisions of Article 33(2) of the Constitution
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka do hereby establish the National Salaries and Cadre Commission to
undertake and execute the said duties and responsibilities for a two (02) year period commencing March 3rd, 2016.
And reposing great trust and confidence in your prudence, ability and fidelity, do by these presents, appoint you,
the said,
To :
1. K. L. L. Wijeratne Esquire
2. Nimal Bandara Esquire
3. Dayananda Vidanagamachchi Esquire
4. J. Charitha Rathwaththe Esquire
5. Prof. Kithsiri Madapatha Liyanage Esquire
6. Leslie Shelton Devendra Esquire
7. Suresh Shah Esquire
8. Sanath Jayantha Ediriweera Esquire
9. V . Regunathan Esquire
10. Kamal Mustapha Esquire
11. Prof. Gunapala Nanayakkara Esquire
12. Nandapala Wickramasuriya Esquire
13. Madam Sujatha  Cooray
14. Gerry Jayawardena Esquire
15. S. Thillainadarajah Esquire
16. Dr. Anura Ekanayake Esquire
17. Sembakuttige Swarnajothi Esquire
18. P. K. U. Nilantha Piyaratne Esquire
19. N. H. Pathirana Esquire
20. H. T. Dayananda Esquire
21. T. B. Maduwegedera Esquire
22. Dr. Wimal Karandagoda Esquire
23. A. Kadiravelupillai Esquire
as members of the National Salaries and Cadre Commission and direct you to take all such steps as may be deemed
necessary to proceed with the implementation of the tasks set out at (a) to (h) above.
And I, further appoint K. L. L. Wijeratne Esquire as the Chairman of the Commission and Asoka Jayasekara Esquire
as the Secretary to the Commission.
And I, do hereby authorized the Commission to issue instructions, make inquiries and investigate matters as may
be necessary in relation to the execution of the tasks the said Commission is hereby entrusted with.
And I, do hereby require and direct all public officers and such other persons to whom the Commission may issue
instructions or apply for assistance for information, to comply with such instructions, render all such assistance and furnish
all such information as may properly be complied with, rendered and furnished, in that behalf.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'03
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.03.2016
5A
I do hereby abolish the National Pay Commission established by the Presidential Directive dated 31.10.2013 in
terms of Article 33 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Given at Colombo, under the seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on this 3rd day of March, in
the year Two Thousand and Sixteen.
                                                              By Order of His Excellency,
P. B. ABEYKOON,
Secretary to the President.
12- 811
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.