

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'04'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.04.2015
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1910$2 - 2015 wfm%a,a ui 16 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2015'04'16
No. 1910/2 -  THURSDAY  APRIL  16,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
VALUE  ADDED  TAX  ACT  No.  14  OF  2002
BY virtue of the powers vested in me under paragraph (e) of  sub-section (2) of section 2 of the Value Added Tax Act No. 14
of 2002 as last amended by the V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 2014, I, Kalyani Dahanayake, Commissioner
General of Inland Revenue, do by this notification, prescribe the guidelines already issued under Circular No. SEC 2012/03 of
30.07.2012 as modified with amendments introduced in subsequent amendments to aforesaid Act in respect of Simplified
Value Added Tax Scheme, as set out in this Schedule hereto.
K
AL Y ANI D AHANAY AKE,
Commissioner General of Inland Revenue.
Department of Inland Revenue,
Colombo 02,
07th April 2015.
Schedule
THE  OPERA TION  OF SIMPLIFIED  V ALUE  ADDED TAX (SVA T) SCHEME
1. Persons eligible to be registered under SV AT
(a) The following V AT Registered Persons and the suppliers of any goods or services to such registered persons
are entitled to be registered under this SV AT Scheme.
(i) any registered person who supplies goods or services to any Strategic Development Project (herein
after referred to as “SDP”) established in terms of sub-section (4) of section 3 of the Strategic Development
Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008, as is referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (f) of Part II of the First
Schedule to the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 (herein after referred to as the “V AT Act”), and who
is entitled to claim input tax under the proviso of sub-section (6) of section 22 of the V A T Act during the
project implementation period so far as such supplies are project related supplies which exceeds 50% of
the total supplies;

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'04'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.04.2015
2A
(ii) any person registered under the provisions of subsection (7) of section 22 of the V AT Act including
SDP , and who is entitled to claim input tax under the V A T Act during the project implementation period
so far as such Purchases are project related Purchases ;
(iii) any registered person engaged in any specified project referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (f)
of PART II of the First Schedule to the V AT Act;
(iv) any exporter or provider of zero rated services specified in section 7 of the V AT Act, having zero rated
supplies exceeding fifty per-centum of his total supplies;
(v) any manufacturer who supplies goods (liable to V AT) manufactured by himself in Sri Lanka, to exporters
to be utilized for manufacture of goods for export, where the value of such supplies and zero rated
supplies exceed fifty per-centum of his total supplies;
(vi) any provider of value added services to exporters which results in the improvement of the quality,
character or value of any goods manufactured for export where such supply of services exceed fifty
per-centum of his total supplies;
(vii) any registered person who supplies any goods or services, to any registered person referred to in sub
paragraphs (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) or (vi) above, provided that the Commissioner General is, on the
information available, satisfied that the value of such supplies exceed fifty per-centum of the total
supplies of such registered person who supplies such goods or services.
(b) Any SDP referred to in paragraph (ii) above is required to be registered under the SV AT Scheme irrespective
of the fact that such SDP is not chargeable to V AT.
2. Procedure for Registration under SV AT Scheme
The information about the documents to be submitted for registration under SV AT, and SV AT 01 (Registration
form) are available at the SV AT Branch of the Inland Revenue Department (herein after referred to as “IRD”).
Applications could also be downloaded from the Department Website www.ird.gov.lk.
For registration under SVA T Scheme, the applicant should be an authorized individual. In the case of a company,
the applicant should be one of the directors authorized by the Board of Directors (the resolution of the
Board must be submitted). In the case of a partnership, the applicant should be a partner. In the case of a
proprietorship, applicant should be the proprietor. Further, the applicant himself is required to be present
for obtaining the registration. However, in the case of a company, the applicant or an authorized representative
of the company is required to be present for the purpose of SV AT registration. In the case of foreign companies,
applicant could be an audit firm or lawyers’ firm.
Note :
(a) Persons who are otherwise eligible for refunds are advised to request their suppliers those who have not
registered under SV AT Scheme, to register under SV A T Scheme.
(b) The back dated registration is considered only in respect of suppliers and only for a period not more than 14
days.
(c) Any registered person referred to in items (i) to (vii) of paragraph 1 of this regulation is named as Registered
Identified Purchaser (herein after referred to as “RIP”), and his purchase is known as suspended purchase.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'04'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.04.2015
3A
(d) In granting RIP status to any registered person referred to in item (i) of paragraph 1 of this regulation, the
Commissioner General of Inland Revenue (herein after referred to as “CGIR”) has to satisfy that the supplies
made to the SDP is more than 50% of his total supplies. Further, for such purpose, the place of business is
visited for getting confirmation, as required.
(e) In granting RIP status to a registered person under item (iv), (v), (vi) and (vii) of paragraph 1 of this regulation,
a verification is made from the computer system of the IRD as to whether the supplies of such person
referred to in aforesaid item (iv), (v), (vi), or (vii) is more than 50% of his total supplies. Further, for such
purpose, the place of business is visited for getting confirmation, as required.
(f) Any V A T registered person registered under SV A T Scheme as a supplier is referred to as Registered Identified
Supplier (herein after referred to as “RIS”). The supply made to any RIP is known as suspended supply, and
the invoice raised on such supply is known as suspended tax invoice.
(g) Any supply of a person who is engaged with specified projects and made such supply to relevant Government
authority is an exempt supply under the First Schedule of the V A T Act, but treated as deemed taxable supplies
in terms of section 22 (10) of the V AT Act.
(h) Any supply of goods or services by a registered person to any SDP is an exempt supply under the First
Schedule of the V AT Act, but treated as deemed taxable supplies in terms of section 22 (10) of the V A T Act.
(i) When an application is submitted by a person who is eligible to be a RIP, the names and the National Identity
Card (NIC) numbers of two persons (a valid Passport No. in case of a non citizen), to whom the credit
vouchers which have to be given by the IRD for him to give it to RIS on supended supply, should be given in
the application form. This authorization cannot be altered unless a written request is made to the CGIR by the
person who has signed the application. If such person is no longer employed with the registered person,
another authorized person can sign the request, but such person’s eligibility should be proved giving
documentary evidence.
(j) RIP is eligible to purchase goods or obtain services, for carrying on any respective activity which is mentioned
in item (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (vi) or (vii) of paragraph 1 of this regulation suspending V AT component. Such
purchases are treated as purchases for specified purposes. RIP is also eligible to make standard rate supplies,
but the total zero rated supplies, suspended supplies and deemed taxable supplies of any such RIP for a
calendar month should not be less than 50% of his total supplies. In such a situation, such registered person
is eligible to purchase goods or obtain services under suspended terms which are used for its taxable supplies,
and such purchase is treated as a purchase used for deemed specified purpose.  In case where the zero rated
supplies, suspended supplies and deemed taxable supplies relating to SDP are less than 50% of the total
supplies of a RIP, he is required to get changed the status from RIP to RIS.
(k) List of the registered persons who are authorized to purchase under suspended terms (i.e. RIP or RIS/RIP) is
published in the official web site of the IRD. Any RIS may refer to this information to have confirmed
whether the purchaser is a RIP . The list will be updated at the end of each month providing information on
new registrations, cancellations, made inactive, changes in the status and the registered persons who are
black listed under SV AT. Therefore, RIS is required to refer to above information in the Web-site.
(
l) In the case of foreign companies, if applicant or signatory or credit voucher collector is an audit firm or lawyers’
firm, proprietor or partners of such firm is responsible and is legally bound for tax matters specified in this
regulation.
5- PG 2436

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'04'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.04.2015
4A
3. Specific Regulations to Registered Identified Purchasers :–
3.1 Suspended Purchases
(i) All purchase of raw materials, capital goods and other services from RIS used for specified purpose or for
deemed specified purpose are referred to as suspended purchases. RIPs are not permitted to purchase
under normal tax invoice from another SV A T registered person unless such purchases are identifiable as
purchase on which no input tax is allowed under section 22 of the V AT Act.
(ii) Suspended purchases should necessarily be for specified purposes or deemed specified purpose. If such
suspended purchases have been used for any exempt supply (other than exempt supply mentioned in item
(d) of paragraph 2) or any V A T input credit is disallowed under the V AT Act (if suspended purchases were
made as disallowable part was not identifiable at the time of purchase), an adjustment should be made as
specified under section 22 of the V AT Act by disallowing the benefit received through the suspension. If no
adjustment has been made by the registered person, an assessment under section 31 of the V AT Act could
be issued by the IRD considering such suspended V AT as disallowable input credit (decision has been taken
not to waive any penalty on such assessment). If suspended purchases have been used for taxable supplies,
no adjustment is due (as above) since relevant output tax is payable in full to the CGIR without any input tax
being deducted. However, if it is proved that any suspended purchases have not been used for specifed
purposes or for any deemed specified purpose, the value of such suspended purchase and the gross profit
margin thereon is treated as a taxable supply, and an assessment is issued under section 31 of the V A T Act
by the IRD, any penalty thereon is not waived off.
(iii) The copies of V AT suspended invoices issued by the suppliers should be preserved at least for a period of
five years as a source document to prove the purchases and the suspended V A T component, when it is
required.
3.2. Credit Vouchers
(i) The RIP is provided with SIMPLIFIED V A T CREDIT VOUCHERS (SVCV) in triplicate in a serial order by
the IRD. A book of SVCV contains 50 credit vouchers. In issuing credit vouchers to respective suppliers,
such SVCV credit vouchers should be signed by two authorized persons (signatories). Therefore, names of
five signatories with their designations, specimen signatures and copies of NICs (copies of Passport in
case of non citizens) should be provided to the IRD at the time of collection of such SVCV. Any change of
such signatories subsequently should be informed in advance. This information is to be made available to
the CGIR by the person who has signed the application. If such person is no longer employed with the
registered person, another person can sign the notification, but such person’s eligibility to sign as authorized
person should be proved giving documentary evidence.
(ii) Subsequent issue of credit vouchers is made on the application made with original certificate of registration,
tax clearance and SV AT form 09. The tax clearance already obtained is valid for six months from the date of
issue for the purpose of obtaining SV AT credit vouchers. The application for requesting credit vouchers can
be downloaded from the Website of the IRD. When new series of credit vouchers are requested, the copies
of used credit vouchers should be produced to the IRD with a list of suspended suppliers.
(iii) RIP is required to issue a Credit V oucher on suspended purchases to the RIS not later than 15 days from
the end of any calendar month in which such purchases are made, provided that RIS submits SV A T form 04
and 05 to the respective RIP within 10 days from the end of the relevant calendar month in which the
supplies are made. RIP is required to issue one credit voucher covering the aggregate purchases made from
one supplier during any calendar month. However, in respect of irregular suppliers, credit vouchers
may be issued at the time of the transaction. RIP is required to keep copies of all vouchers issued.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'04'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.04.2015
5A
(iv) In the case of bank transactions, RIP is bound to produce SV AT credit voucher at the point of transaction or
within 7 days from the end of a month in which the transaction is carried out irrespective of submission
of forms SV AT 04 and 05 by a bank in respect of such transactions. No credit voucher is entertained by a
bank after 07 days from the end of the relevant month in which the transaction is carried out.
(v) RIP is required to issue credit vouchers to persons who have been granted special approvals by the
Commissioner General of Inland Revenue to accept credit vouchers, without submitting forms SV AT 04
and SV AT 05 in respect of suspended supply. National Water Supply and Drainage Board, Road
Development Authority, Sri Lanka Insurance and Industrial Technology Institute have already been granted
such approval in this regard.
(vi) Not issuing due credit vouchers by RIP, or not submitting necessary forms by any RIP or RIS to the CGIR
in time, which in any manner affects the other party in the process, will be strictly dealt with under the
staturtory provisions of VAT Act. Further, after hearing the complaints from suppliers with regard to
non-submission of credit vouchers in time, if it is proved to the satisfaction of the CGIR that the negligence of
such act has affected to the supplier, an assessment could be made on the respective RIP , or such RIP would
be black listed.
(vii) CGIR may refuse issuing credit vouchers to any RIP at any time if it appears that any regulation issued by the
CGIR has not been complied with as mentioned in item (vi) above.
(viii) Where any credit voucher is cancelled due to a mistake, such cancellation should be disclosed in the application
made subsequently requesting for credit voucher and original of the cancelled credit voucher should be
attached to the credit voucher book.
(ix) If purchases have been returned to any supplier during the same month in which such purchases were made,
it should be disclosed in form SV AT 06(a) with such supplier’s details and credit voucher number issued
during the month. Original value of purchase should be disclosed in form SV AT 06.
(x) If  purchases have been returned to any supplier in respect of previously declared purchase, that information
should be disclosed in form SV AT 06(a) with the credit voucher number, already issued in that regard.
Further, it is necessary to disclose the credit voucher number of current period which is relevant to net
purchases after accounting such returns. Original value of purchase should be disclosed in form SV A T 06,
irrespective of return of any purchase accounted during the month in respect of such supplier. If value of
returned purchase is more than the purchase of the current period from such supplier, credit voucher to be
written has a negative value.
(xi) If there is no purchase in the current month, but there are returned purchases during the month which is
related to previously declared purchases, it should also be disclosed in form SV A T 06(a) with the credit
voucher number previously issued for such purchases, together with the current credit voucher number
which is issued on a negative value.
(xii) The credit voucher is to be written on the net value of supplies based on the value given in form SV AT 04 for
any situation mentioned in item (ix), (x) or (xi) above.
(xiii) If it is a debit note, that information too should be disclosed in SV AT 06(a) as a minus value.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'04'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.04.2015
6A
3.3 VAT Return
3.3.1 Value of Purchase
(i) The value of purchases should be declared under the suspended purchases in cage “J” of the V AT Return for
the month in which the suspended tax invoice is received. In any case where such purchase has not been
declared for that particular month, it can be disclosed in a subsequent month within the same year of
assessment for which accounts are made up for the purpose of section 28 of the Inland Revenue Act, No.
10 of 2006. The amount of suspended V AT should be entered in cage “K”. Under no circumstances V A T on
suspended purchases will be an input tax, and therefore, it could not be deductible from output tax. As such,
suspended V A T is not refundable. In case where any input tax on purchases made under suspended terms is
disallowable under the provisions of the V A T Act as mentioned in item (ii) of sub-paragraph 3.1, it should
be disclosed in cage 8A of the V A T return.
(ii) The value for suspended purchase in the V AT return is the difference between the value of purchase in form
SV AT 06 and the value of returned purchase in form SV A T 06(a).
3.3.2 Value of Supply
(i) Any RIP who supplies goods or services to any SDP should disclose such supply in cage A2 of the V AT
Return with deemed tax payable and deemed tax credit should disclosed in R2.
(ii) Any RIP who is engaged with special project and make supply to the relevant Government authority should
disclose such supply in cage Al of the V AT Return with deemed tax payable and deemed tax credit should be
disclosed in R1.
3.4 Refunds
(i) The RIP is requested to make purchases from RIS. Refunds are not made under any circumstances other
than any upfront payment made to the Director General of Customs and V AT paid in any situation mentioned
in item (iii) below.
(ii) RIP is not authorized to accept a normal tax invoice on purchases unless the V A T component is claimable as
referred to in item (iii) below or such purchases are identifiable as purchase on which the input relating to
such purchases are disallowable for V AT purposes. However, instead of normal tax invoice, RIP shall request
the supplier to issue a suspended tax invoice by requesting him to get registered under SV AT Scheme as
RIS, as far as possible in the case of situation mentioned in item (iii) below.
(iii) RIP is entitled to get excess input (if any) where goods or services obtained from any other V AT registered
person who is not a RIS. However, if it appears that the V A T component has not been remitted to the CGIR
by such supplier to whom the V A T is paid, the CGIR may hold such claims of refunds till such V AT component
is recovered.
(vi) If it appears that the purchase has been made from any RIP or RIS who has been black listed, no refund is
made on tax invoices received by RIP from such persons.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'04'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.04.2015
7A
3.5  Documents
(i) The goods/services declaration form SV AT 04 and supplementary forms SV AT 05, 05(a) and 05 (b) issued
by suppliers should be mutually agreed with the RIP. The documents duly signed by RIP should be returned
to the RIS for him to submit to the CGIR.
(ii) RIP is required to submit summary of suspended purchases - form SV AT 06.
(iii) RIP is required to give total output declaration - form SV AT 03.
(iv) RIP should send all necessary forms and details in relation to a calendar month with two copies of
acknowledgement, the form of which can be downloaded from the Web site. All forms such as SVA T 03,06,
and 06(a), should be handed over to the Simplified V A T Branch on or before the last day of the following
month. Further, excel files of SV AT 06, 06(a) or 06(b), if necessary and prepared on email formats of
which are available in the IRD Web-site, should be emailed on or before the last day of the following
month.
(v) Any of those forms should not contain information for more than one calendar month.
(vi) Any RIP should, on request, prepare a statement of reconciliation to faciliate the officials of the Department
to check whether the imports and locally purchased goods and services have been used for any specified
purpose or deemed specified purpose as defined in the note to paragraph 1 of the regulation above.
(vii) RIP is required to submit, on request, a schedule of purchases made under suspended terms giving all invoice
numbers under three sub headings (i.e. raw materials, capital goods and other goods and services obtained/
consumed).
(viii) If any RIP has made suspended supplies, such RIP is required to comply with the requirements specified in
paragraph 6 of this regulation.
(ix) Not submitting of necessary forms by the RIP to the CGIR in time, which is in any manner affects the other
party in the process will be strictly dealt with under the statutory provisions of V A T Act.
 4. Specific Regulations to SDP relating Documentation
SDP is required to submit a form SV A T O6AA disclosing the details with regard to the date of purchase of goods or
services, name and address of the person from whom such goods or services purchased, TIN of such person and
value of such supply, disregarding the fact that such SDP is not a registered person for V AT. This form should be
submitted only for the verification of exempt supply made to the project.
5. Specific Regulations to Registered Identified Purchasers - NFE Manufacturers (Consignees)
(i) If RIP is a direct exporter who received materials on Non Foreign Exchange (NFE) or non cash basis from local
suppliers (RIS) on behalf of the foreign buyer to whom the final product is exported, such RIP is named as NFE
Manufacturer (Consignee) and is issued a “NFE Suspended Tax Invoice” by the RIS on non-cash basis supply.
Thereafter, the NFE Manufacturer shall issue a “NFE Credit V oucher” obtained from the CGIR to such supplier
(RIS), provided that such supplies are utilized only for the purpose of manufacture and export of goods to the
foreign buyer. RIP shall have supporting documents forms SV AT 06(b) and SV AT 06(c) for information.
6 - PG 2436

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'04'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.04.2015
8A
(ii) RIP who is a NFE manufacturer shall submit forms SV AT 06(b) and SV AT 06(c) in respect of ‘NFE Credit
V ouchers’ to the IRD and it should be emailed to the assigned email address.
(iii) The value of NFE purchases should be declared under Non Foreign Exchange Purchases in cage “Jl” of the V AT
Return. The amount of suspended V A T Should be entered in cage “Kl”.
(iv) All other regulations and procedures will be applied in the same manner as applicable to RIP.
6. Specific Regulations to Registered Identified Suppliers
6.1 Suspended Tax Invoice
(i) Supplies to RIP can be made on a Suspended Tax invoice (SV AT 02) showing the V AT component as “Suspended
Value added Tax”. Such suspended invoice should be issued without any delay. Before making supplies
under suspended terms to a registered person, RIS is required to make sure that the person is a RIP. The lists
of RIPs and RIP/RIS have been published in the official Web site of the CGIR.
(ii) A tax invoice should not be issued to any RIP under any circumstances unless the input is disallowable under
the provisions of the V AT Act.
(iii) The goods exempt from V AT except any supply which is trated as deemed taxable supplies made to SDP
during the project implementation period, or to any specified project cannot be supplied under SVAT
Scheme.
(iv) Supplies should be considered on accrual basis unless the approval is obtained under section 23 of the V AT
Act for accounting on cash basis. If it is on cash basis, the time of supply is the time in which the payment
is received by the supplier. However, under cash basis or accrual basis, any advance payment received
should be declared in the taxable period in which such payment is received.
(v) RIS should follow the time of supply as stipulated in the V AT Act. Therefore, the suspended supplies as well
should be declared on that basis.
(vi) The goods/services declaration form SV AT 04, supplementary form SV A T O5, (Suspended V AT Debit Notes
form SV A T 05(a) and Suspended V AT Credit Notes form SVA T 05(b), if applicable) should be issued to
purchasers within 10 days from the end of the relevant month in which the supplies are made by RIS and
obtain confirmation from the RIP on the relevant forms (Scanned goods/service declaration form (SV A T 04)
and supplementary form (SV AT O5, SV AT 05(a) and 05(b), if applicable) may be sent to respective RIP to
get his confirmation on the supply and credit voucher numbers.
6.2  Credit Voucher
(i) RIP will issue a SIMPLIFIED V AT CREDIT VOUCHER provided by the IRD subject to the receipt of
forms SV AT 04 and SV AT 05. RIS is required to obtain credit vouchers within 15 days from the end of the
relevant month in respect of supplies made by him during a period of one month. If RIS is a bank, it is
permitted to collect credit vouchers without submitting forms SV AT 04 and SV A T 05 to respective RIP.
However, such bank is required to keep same information which is in form SV AT 05 with the respective
branch of the bank.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'04'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.04.2015
9A
(ii) All credit vouchers received by any RIS in respect of any taxable period are required to be submitted to the
IRD to prove the suspended supplies ifhe is requested to do so.
(iii) If supplies have been returned during the month in which such supplies were made, the information should be
disclosed in form SV A T 05(b) giving the value of the returned supplies with the credit voucher number
received for that particular month. The original value of invoices should only be stated in form SV A T 07
irrespective of such returns. However, credit voucher is issued by the RIP on the net value. Summary of
returned supply should be disclosed in form SV AT07(b).
(iv) If the supplies have been returned during the month in respect of previously declared supplies, that information
should also be disclosed in form SV AT 05(b) of the current month with the credit voucher number previously
obtained. It should also be disclosed current period credit voucher number in respect of net supplies is made
during the current month, and the value of the returned supplies together with the current credit voucher
number received. Original value of supplies should be disclosed in form SV AT 07, irrespective of any supplies
returned during the month. Summary of returned supply should be disclosed   in form SV AT07(b).
(v) If there are no supplies during the month, but there are returned supplies which is related to previously
declared supplies, it should also be disclosed in form SV AT 05(b) with the previously obtained credit
voucher number for such supplies together with the current credit voucher number received on a negative
value. Summary of returned supply should be disclosed in form SV A T 07(b).
6.3  VAT Return
(i) RIS should disclose VAT suspended taxable supplies in cage C of the VAT return considering the time of
supply irrespective of the fact that a credit voucher is received or not, in respect of such  suspended
supply. Respective suspended VA T amount on suspended supply should be declared in cage ‘2A’.  Any
RIS who requests for settlement of his V A T payments on suspended supplies through a credit voucher for
any calendar month should make such request in cage “R” in the V AT return in which the supply and relevant
output tax is declared. Where there is a discrepancy between the amount entered in cage 2A and in cage ‘R’
of the V AT return exists, such discrepancy will be treated as a standard supply chargeable to V AT unless the
relevant reconciliation is submitted to the satisfaction of the CGIR for the differrence to prove that there
is no revenue loss and the transactions were duly declared.
(ii) The value of suspended supply in the V AT return should be the difference between the value of supply in
form SV A T 07 and value of returned supply in form SV AT 07(b).
(iii) RIS who has any exempt supply of goods or services made to any SDP should disclose value of such supply
in cage A2 with deemed tax and deemed tax credit should be disclosed in cage R2.
6.4 Documents
(i) The RIS is required to handover said forms SV AT04, SV A T05, SV A T05(a) and SV A T05(b) confirmed by both
parties to the Simplified V AT Branch of the IRD in respect of all transactions taken place during a period of
one month in respect of each customer seperately.
(ii) RIS is required to submit total output declaration, - form SV AT 03.
(iii) RIS is required to submit a summary of all suspended supplies made during the month (form SV AT 07) and it
should be emailed to the assigned email address in the given excel format.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'04'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.04.2015
10A
(iv) RIS is required to submit a summary of all debit notes issued during any month (form SVAT 07(a)) and it should
be emailed in the given excel format.
(v) RIS is required to submit a summary of all credit notes issued during any month (form SV AT 07(b)) and it
should be emailed in the given excel format.
(vi) Bank is required to insert an additional column to form SV A T 07 to give information in respect of the name of
the respective branch of the bank.
(vii) RIS should submit all necessary forms and details in relation to a calendar month as per the covering letter
which can be downloaded from the Web-site with a copy and all forms SV AT 03, SV AT 04, SV AT 05,
SV AT05(a), SV AT05(b), SV AT07, SV AT07(a), SV A T07(b), SV AT07(c) and SV A T 07 (d) should be handed
over to the Simplified V A T Branch on or before end of the following month.
(viii) Seporate recoreds should be maintained to ascertain Supplies on which V AT is Suspanded
(ix) The negligence of suppliers in issuing suspended tax invoices, issuing forms SV AT 04,SV A T 05, SV AT 05(a),
SV AT 05(b) ornot make available required reports to the CGIR and if it would effect to the other party, in that
regard, the statutory provisions of V AT Act in respect of non-furnishing of returns will strictly be applied.
 
7. Documentation relating to supply of goods or services to SDP
Any person who makes supplies to SDP is required to submit a form SV AT 07 AA disclosing the details with regard to
the date of supply of goods or services, name and address of the SDP to whom such goods or services supplied, TIN
of such person and value of such supply. This form should be submitted only for the verification of exempt supply
made to the project.
8. Specific Instructions to Registered Identified Suppliers - NFE Suppliers
(i) If RIS supply goods or services to RIP on Non Foreign Exchange (NFE) basis or non cash basis on behalf of
the foreign buyer, such RIS is named as NFE Supplier. Such RIS shall issue a NFE Suspended V AT Invoice
on non cash supply of goods or service (as specified in Form SV AT 02(a) without any delay to RIP for such
supply of goods or service, provided that:
(a) RIS shall have a delivery request from RIP to deliver such supply of goods or services. Such delivery
request should essentially contain description of purchased items, quantity and names and addresses
of foreign buyers to whom the final product is intended to be exported.
(b) RIS shall have a purchase order from foreign purchaser with the instruction to deliver the goods/
services to RIP. Name and address of the issuer of such purchase order, description and quantity
should essentially be identical to details mentioned in the delivery request in (a) above; and
(c) RIS shall receive foreign remittance as settlement of such supplies directly from foreign purchaser
and not from any other source (eg. not allowed to set off any third party liability of RIS with the
consent of foreign purchaser).
(ii) If RIS is a NFE supplier, he will receive a “NFE Credit V oucher” provided by the CGIR and issued by the RIP
who is a NFE Manufacturer in respect of such NFE supply. RIS is required to submit form SV AT 04 and form
SV AT 05, [and if applicable SV AT 05(a) and SV A T 05(b)] to RIP within 10 days from the end of the relevant
month in respect of supplies made by RIS, and the credit voucher should be obtained within 15 days from the
end of the relevant month.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'04'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.04.2015
11A
(iii) RIS (NFE Supplier) shall prepare forms SV A T 07(c) and SV A T 07(d) in respect of such supplies. Such
person shall have all supporting documents for information which contents in the said forms.
(iv) RIS is required to submit forms SV A T 07(c) and SV AT 07(d) in respect of NFE supplies made during the
month and it should be emailed to the assigned email address.
(v) All other instructions and procedures will be applied in the same manner as applicable to normal Credit
V oucher/Suspended V A T Invoice.
9. General Instructions to Registered Identified Purchasers and Registered Identified Suppliers
(i) RIP should submit V AT return monthly.
(ii) RIS who is engaged with specified project/s should submit his V A T return on monthly basis.
(iii) RIS who has been accorded RIP status as well, should submit his V A T return on monthly basis.
(iv) All RIS other than above should submit his V A T Return on quarterly basis.
(v) V A T return should be submitted to the Data Processing and Revenue Accounting Unit (DPRU) of the IRD
except registered persons who are engaged with Specified Projects. Such persons should furnish their
return to the Senior Commissioner (V AT) with a schedule relating to deemed taxable supplies on a
project-wise. All V A T returns should be furnished on or before end of the following month.
(vi) RIS who has been accorded RIP statuts should follow all the instructions given above to RIP.
(vii) RIP who made suspended supplies should follow the instruction applicable for RIS.
(viii) All letters or digits in forms should be typed in Times New Roman font with 12 font size.
(ix) Value should be to the nearest rupee (do not enter cents)
(x) If  a SV AT registered person submits forms which are not in such form and does not contain such particulars
as specified by the CGIR in his regulation, such registered person shall be deemed not to have furnished such
forms under SVAT Scheme.
(xi) If there is no suspended purchases or suspended supplies, a ‘‘NIL’’ form should be submitted.
(xii) Change of address of a person registered for SV A T Scheme could be made subject to the submission of copies
of new TIN certificate, new V A T certificate and form 13 (in the case of companies) obtained after the change
of address.
(xiii) Loss of credit voucher books or credit vouchers should be informed immediately to the Simplified V A T Branch
with an affidavit and police report obtained in that regard for enable to cancel such credit voucher books or
vouchers.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'04'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.04.2015
12A
(xiv) Cancelation of  SV A T registration will be made after the cancellation of  V A T registration and after receiving a request
in that regard with the original certificate. SV A T system and IRD system is checked as to whether all V A T returns and
forms under SV AT Scheme have been submitted. Further, once the cancelation is done, name of such person will be
published in the Website. Further, cancellation could be made by CGIR on his discretion based on the information
which shows that the registered person has not complied with the regulation issued by him.
(xv) RIS status can be changed to RIP status on a request made with the original certificate and after satisfying the
requirements mentioned in sub-paragraph (d) or (e) of paragraph 2 of this regulation.
(XVl) RIP status could be changed to RIS status on a request made with original certificate and credit voucher
books obtained, if any.
(xvii) RIP status could be changed to RIS, based on the information available with the CGIR Where the required
percentage has not been met for three consecutive taxable periods.
(xviii) Confirmation of suspended purchases or supplies will be made if both the persons have made available
forms in given email format correctly.
10. The forms specified for the purposes of this scheme are as follows :
(a) The Registration Form - (SV AT 01).
(b) Suspended V AT Invoice used for supplies without charging V A T - (SV A T 02).
(c) NFE Suspended Tax Invoice - [SV AT 02 (a)].
(d) Simplified V AT Credit V oucher which is to be obtained from the IRD and utilized by the RIP for set off the
liability of V AT on purchases from the RIS - (SVCV).
(e) Total output declaration is required to be submitted by RIP and RIS - (SV A T 03).
(f) Confirmation of the supply from both parties. This is to be submitted by RIS (SV AT 04) - both party
document.
(g) Monthly supplementary declaration form (SV AT 05) - This is a summary of Supplies. The RIS is required to
submit this form with SV A T 04 - both party document.
(h) Suspended Debit Notes declaration form. This documentation is required to be submitted by the RIS (SV AT
05 (a) - both party document.
(i) Suspended Credit Notes declaration form. This documentation is required to be submitted by the RIS
(SV A T05(b) - both party document.
(j) Summary of the suspended purchase (including NFE Basis) - This documentation is required to be submitted
by the RIP (SV AT 06).
(k) Reconciliation of cancellation of cerdit vouchers and purcahases returned during the month or in a subsequent
month. This documentation is required to be submitted by the RIP [SV A T 06(a)].

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'04'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.04.2015
13A
(l) Details of the suspended supply received on NFE basis. This documentation is required to be submitted by
the RIP [SV AT06(b)].
(m) Summary of the export details received against the suspended supply received on NFE basis. This
documentation is required to be submitted by the RIP [SV AT 06(c)].
(n) Summary of the suspended supplies - This documentation is required to be submitted by the RIS (SV AT07).
(o) Summary of the suspended Debit Notes issued - This documentation is required to be submitted by the RIS
[SV AT07(a)].
(p) Summary of the suspended Credit Notes issued - This documentation is required to be submitted by the
RIS [SV AT07(b)].
(q) Summary of the suspended supplies made to NFE Manufacturers. This documentation is required to be
submitted by the RIS [SV AT 07(c)].
(r) Summary of the foreign remittance received on account of supplies made to NFE Manufacturers. This
documentation is required to be submitted by the RIS [SV AT 07(d)].
(s) SDP is required to submit form SV AT 06 AA.
(t) Any person supplies goods and services to SDP is required to submit SV A T 07 AA.
11. This set of regulations is subjected to amendment from time to time.
The guideline issued by the CGIR under Circular No. SEC 2012/03 of  30.07.2012 is prevail for the period prior to this
Gazette.
04 - 877
PRINTED A T THE DEP ARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.