

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi ( (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h  - 2009'06'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2009
791
791
wxl 1"605- 2009 cqks 05 jeks isl=rdod- 2009'06'05
No. 1,605 – FRIDAY, JUNE 05, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 794
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 802
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication . All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due  regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 12th June, 2009  should reach the Government Press on
or before 12 noon on 29th May, 2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B._ Part III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,604  of 29.05.2009 were not Published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi ( (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h  - 2009'06'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2009
792
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety
:–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Sta ndard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi ( (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h  - 2009'06'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2009
793
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi ( (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h  - 2009'06'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2009
794
Posts - Vacant
SRI    LANKA    POLICE    DEPARTMENT
Vacancies for Police Constables/Woman Police
Constables in Western Musical Band
APPLICATIONS are called for from Sri Lankan Applicants for the
Post of Police Constables/ Woman Police Constables in Western
Musical Band.
2. Application forms duly perfected in accordance with the
specimen form given below, should be sent to Director (Recruitment)
Recruiting Office, 1st Floor, No. 375, Hevelock Road, Colombo
06. The applications should be sent by registered post to the above
mentioned addresss to reach on or before 06.08.2009 and the top
left hand corner of the envelope enclosing applications should be
marked Post of Police Constables/Woman Police  Constables in
Western Musical Band. Delayed applications will be rejected and
no applications will be issued by the Sri Lanka Police Department.
3. Salary Scale :-  Post of Police Constables/Woman Police
Constables in Western Musical-
Rs. 1,71,360 - 7 x 1,740 - 10 x 2,160 - 17 x 2,880 - Rs. 2,54,100
In addition to the above salary scale, they will be paid following
allowances :
(a) Special arduous duty allowances :
(1) For duties in operational area Rs 1,200
(2) For duties in non operational area Rs.   600
(b) Combined allowances :
(1) For duties in operational area Rs. 10,500
(2) For duties in non operational area Rs.   3,500
(a) Free Transport facilities,
(b) Free Medical facilities to officers,
(Financial assistance can be obtained for medical treatment
even in a foreign country)
(c) All uniforms will be provided free of charge.
(d) Facilities to improve skill and talents in sports.
(e) Travelling expense for duty and money will be granted as
rewards for outstanding and arduous duties.
4. Basic Qualifications :
(a) Age Limits :
Recruit Police Constable/Woman Police Constable.- The
age should be between 18 and 28 years as at closing date
as per the Gazette  notifications. However, Security
Assistants who are serving in the Police Department are
eligible to apply up to 30 Years on the closing date of
applications.
(b) Educational Qualifications.-  Should have passed 06
subjects in not more than 2 sitting including Mathematics
and medium language in the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination
those who have passed on two occasions should have
passed 5 Subjects on the first occasion.
Note :
(a) More attention would be paid on applications
passed G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination.
(b) More attention would be paid on applications
passed Music as a subject either in the G . C. E.
(O/L) or G. C. E. (A/L) Examination.
Note 01: According to the classification of subjects of the
Department of Examinations, in calculating the
number of subjects passed at G. C. E. (O/L) both
passes in science subjects number 41 and 44 will be
treated as one subject and both passes in Mathematics
numbers 42 and 45 will be treated as one subject.
(They can’t be considered as four separate subjects
taking into account the number of subjects passed.).
Note 02: Failure in the Technical subject at Written Test of
G. C. E. (O/L) examination will be considered as
failure in the same subject although a pass has been
obtained for the same in the Practical Test.
Note 03: Since optional subjects of Tamil, English  and Sinhala
have not been included in the stream of G. C. E.
(O/L), passes in any of these subjects will not be
computed as a pass in the G. C. E. (O/L) examination.
(c) Physical requirements :—
* Recruit Police Constable Western Musical Band -
Height 5 feet 04 Inches (minimum) ;
Chest 30 Inches Minimum(deflated).
* Woman  Police Constable Western Musical Band -
Height 5 feet 02 inches (minimum).
Note : Applicants who are slightly short of the physical
requirements but fulfill the other stipulated
qualifications will be eligible at the discretion of
Inspector General of Police provided they have skills
in sports or have achieved best performance in sports
at national level or they have earned reputation for
Sri Lanka by participating in an international
competition.
Minimum Professional Qualifications.-  A Certificate obtained
having studied Music in the following manner and obtained a pass
or to have followed a minimum of 6 months musical course in a
Government or Affiliated  to the Government or Government
recognized Musical Institution :
(a) A pass on Western Music in the Examination conducted
by either Royal College of London or Trinity College of
Music,

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi ( (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h  - 2009'06'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2009
795
(b) A Pass on Western Music from a Government recognized
Institution,
(c) Having followed a course on Music in a Government
recognized Institution.
Minimum Skills in Playing the Musical Instruments.-  Skill to
play one or more of the undermentioned musical Instruments :
(a) Trumpet, Trombone, Euphonium, Base tuba, Frence horn,
Clarinet, Saxophone, Flute, Harp, Bag Pipe, Side trumpet,
Base Trumpet, Symbol, Symphony OR  Stringed
Instruments, Notation Board and Timing Instruments.
(b) After the initial examination, an examination on profession
qualification and an oral examination would be conducted
to test the skills.
(d) Visual requirements —
Vision should not be less than 6/12 with each eye. If the
vision is 6/6 with one eye and 6/18 with the other eye
will be accepted. Colour vision should be normal.
Applicants wearing spectacles or contact lenses will not
be eligible.
(e) Other Qualifications :
* Applicants should be unmarried (Divorcees will
be considered as married) This condition will not
apply for those who have fulfilled the other
qualifications and presently serving in the Police
Department and for the Security Assistants.
* Applicants who are in the required are limit and
fulfill stipulated basic educational qualifications
and physical requirements will be given preference
if they have sports skills and special performances.
During the initial examination, a test on the physical
fitness, original certificates on educational and
professional qualifications would be done.
* During Endurance Test, each applicant should
continously run and covera distance of 1000 meters
in 3 minutes and 44 seconds.
* During Endurance Test, each applicant should
continuously run and cover a distance of 1000
meters in 5 minutes and 24 seconds.
* Applicants obtaining a minimum of 50% marks in
Professional test only would be summoned for the
final interview.
* The Marks of applicants who obtain a minimum
of 40% marks at the final interview would be added
to the marks obtained at Professional Test. A list
with priority and skills would be prepared and a
decision would be taken on the minimum required
Marks on the basic of the number of vacancies.
06. Terms of Engagement.- This Post is permanent. Appointees
come within the scope of the Contributory Pension Fund Scheme.
07. Conditions of Service :
a. This appointement is subject to a period of probation for
three years.
b. The selected applicants will be required to comply with
any rules already made or may hereafter be made to give
effect to the language policy of the government.
c. They will be subject to the relevant provisions of the
Establishments Code Volume I and II, Police Disciplinary
Code and any other Orders that may be issued by the
Inspector General of Police or by the Government from
time to time.
d. Every officer will be required to pass the prescribed
Departmental tests. Those who fail to pass the prescribe
test or are found to be unfit for Police duties will be liable
for removal from the Police service.
e. Permission will not be granted to marry prior to being
confirmed in the said rank without the permission of the
I. G. Police, However, in terms of P. G. II No. 41 dated
28.02.1973 and I. G.’s  circular No.1952/2006 of
19.10.2006 and 09.08.2007 (Amended). It is possible to
marry showing special reasons and with premission of I.
G. Police.
f. Application on being appointed and after the training
should serve a probationary period of three years in the
Police Deparment and if they wish to resign from service
before their probation is over, they should sign an
agreement of consent to the effect that they are willing to
pay at the time of tendering their resignation, any amount
which was incurred on uniforms etc., during on by the
Director of Police Training College. The acceptance of
resignation should confirm to the Section 4 Chapter 5 in
volume 1 of the Establishment Code 1985.
g. Probationary Post of Police Constable, immediately after
they  have  commenced training at the Police Training
College should affirm/swear that they adhere to the Police
Disciplinary Code in terms of the  I. G. P. Circular No.
1693/2003. Post of Police Constable and Woman Police
Constable Musical Band who have been confirmed  in the
post will have opportunities for promotions according to
the approved scheme of promotion of the Police
Department.
h. They should soon after commencing the training at Police
College, subscribe the Oath of Allegiance to the Public
Service, in terms of the I. G. P.’s Circular No.1804/2004.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi ( (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h  - 2009'06'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2009
796
08. (a) Attention is invited to the general conditions applicable
to appointment to posts in the Police service published in the
Section (IIA) of the Part 1 of this Gazette.
(b) Enlishment will be made in terms of Public Administration
Circular No. 15/90 dated 10.03.1990.
09. Applicants should annex copies of following documents to
their application. (Originals must not be forwarded) :
(i) Birth Certificate,
(ii) Two recent testimonials of character (obtained from
persons who are not related) ,
(iii) Certificates in support of educational qualifications,
(iv) Certificates in support of any outstanding sports or other
extra curricular activities ,
(v) Certificates of service experience. (if available),
(vi) A Photostat copy of the National Identity Card.
10. ( a) Applications from applicants who are already in the
Public Service/Services must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective departments and must be accompanied by a
certificate stating that the officers can be released, if selected.
(b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their own.
Hand writing on paper 11'' x 8'' in size and post them. together
with the copies of certificates called for to the address given in
paragraph 2 and under no circumstances should applications be
handed over personally to any officer in the department.
11. Applications, which do not conform to the requirements,
stipulated in this notification will be rejected and such applicants
will not be notified.
Note : No Travelling or other expenses will be paid to applicants
who are summoned for the test and interview.
Inspector General of Police.
Police Headquarters,
Colombo 01.
SRI    LANKA   POLICE   DEPARTMENT
VACANCIES FOR POLICE CONSTABLES/WOMAN POLICE CONSTABLES IN
WESTERN MUSICAL BAND
01. ( a) Name in full (In block letters) :———.
(As stated in the applicant’s Birth Certificate)
(b) Name with initials :———.
(c) Male/Female :———.
02. National Identity Card No. :———.
(Copy of N. I. C. should be attached) :———.
03. Father’s Name in Full :———.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :———.
Police station to which the place of birth belongs :———.
Province :———.
05. ( a) Present address :———.
(b) Police station to which the present address belongs :—.
(c) Permanent Address :———.
(d) Police station and the electorate to which the permanent
address belongs :———.
06. ( a) Nationality :———.
(b) Whether you are citizen by birth or registration (if by
registration attach copies of the certificate) :———.
If you are a citizen by birth state the place of birth of,
(i) Applicant :———.
(ii) Applicant’s Father :———.
(iii) Applicant’s paternal grandfather :———.
(iv) Applicant’s paternal great grandfather :———.
07. Age : (as on the closing date of application given in the
Gazette)
Years:........... Months :.................. days :....................
(Copy of birth certificate should be attached).
08. Height : (Inches) ................ Chest : (Inches) ................
09. Educational Qualifications (State Examinations passed and
attach copies of certificates) :———.
10. Whether married or single :———.
11. (i) Present employment :———.
(ii) Are you a members of any Armed Force :———.
12. Have you got special merits and/or Qualifications :———.
13. Give names and address of two non - related referees :——.
 (i) ———.
(ii) ———.
14. ( a) Have your ever applied for a post in the Police Service (If
so give reference) :———.
(b) Have you served in the Police or in the Sri Lanka Reserve
Police before ? :———.
(if so under what circumstances did you leave the service?
Give details)
15. ( a) Are you a member of the SL Police Reserve ? If so give
date of appointment, Rank and Number. Attach copy of
the Appointment Letter.
(b) Are you serving in any of the Armed Services? (If so your
application must be submitted through the respective
Service Commander) :———.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi ( (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h  - 2009'06'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2009
797
16. ( a) Have you served in any of the Armed Services? (If so,
attach copy of your discharge certificate) :———.
(b) Are you serving as a Volunteer in any one of the Armed
Services?
(if so, your application must be submitted through the
respective Service Commander) :........................
......................................................
(c) Have you served as a V olunteer in any of the Armed
Services?
(If so attach a Copy/Copies of your discharge certificate/
certificates) :....................................
17. Have you been involved in or concerned in or charged or
arrested even on suspicion and or convicted of any offence?
(if so, give details) :......................................
SRI  LANKA  AIR  FORCE
Officer Vacancies
1. Vacancies exist for Male Commissioned Officers in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force in the Electronics Engineering (EE) Branch.
2. Applications  are invited from those candidates possessing  the professional qualifications given below.
ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING (EE) BRANCH :
(a) BSc. Degree in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering or NDT in Electronics  and Telecommunication Engineering
or Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Electronics Stream) or Diploma in Technology (Electronics/Telecommunication
Engineering) from Open University of Sri Lanka or National Diploma in Engineering Science (Electronics/
Telecommunication Stream) or equivalent qualifications ; or
(b) Should have completed the academic studies in Electronics and Telecommuncation Engineering or Computer Engineering
at a University recognized by the UGC.(shoule have obtained the Trancript from the respective university which
confirms the successful  completion of degree programme and awaiting for convocation).
3. Other Entry  Requirements.—
(a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(b) Civil Status : Married and Unmarried
(c) Age : Not more than 30 years as at 20th July, 2009
(d) Height : 5' 5" and above
(e) Weight : BMI =  Weight (Kg) < 25
 Height (m)
2
(f) Chest : Minimum 32"
(g) Vision Colour Standard : CP2
(h) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (With or without spectacles)
4. Any candidate who may have a special skill or value to the service may at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force
be considered, even though he may not have the requisite age or height, provided he possesses the requisite academic and profes sional
qualifications.
5. Be medically  fit so as to pass such medical examinations as may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force.
6. Due considerations will be given to current outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
18. Have any of your relatives been involved in or concerned in
or charged or arrested even on suspicion, or convicted of any
offence? (if so, give details)
...................................................................
I, hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct
to the best of my knowledge and belief. I am aware that I am liable
for termination of my service in the Police Department forthwith
(even if I have been appointed at any time) if the particulars furnished
are found to be incorrect or false.
————,
Signature of the Applicant.
 Date :———.
06-21

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi ( (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h  - 2009'06'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2009
798
7. Official Language Requirements .—Selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules already made or may be
made hereafter for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Republic of Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the provisions in
the Official Language Act, No.33 of 1956.
8. Selected candidates will be commissioned in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force in the Flying Officer or Flight Lieutenant rank
as applicable in keeping with their qualifications and experience.
9. Selected candidates will be required to undergo training at such places as decided by the Commander of the Air Force. if at any
time during training, the Officer is reported on by the authorities as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to cau ses within
his control, he will be liable to have his commission withdrawn and/or be subject to other disciplinary action in accordance wi th the Sri
Lanka Air Force Disciplinary Regulations.
10. All Officers are governed by the Air Force act and orders issued from time to time.
11. The conditions of service for an officer of the Sri Lanka Air Force are in terms of Sri Lanka Air Force Regulations published
in Gazette No. 10,240 of 27 April 1951, and as amended from  time to time. In terms of Section 10 of the Air Force Act, “Every Officer
shall hold his appointment during the President’s Pleasure”. However an officer has no right to resign his commission unilatera lly, but
under provision of Section 11 of the Air Force Act may be allowed by the President to do so. The provisions of any Bond/Agreeme nt
envisaging a period of obligatory service in respect of training and subsequent courses will not supersede the provisions of Section 11 of
the Air Force act stated above. Retirement from the Air Force will be applicable under conditions specified in the Air Force Pensions and
Gratuties Code.
12. All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any part of the world at any time.
13. A single officer is required to live in the Officers’ Mess. He is provided  with furnished accomodation and food. Batman
service will also be provided. A single officer’s ration allowance and batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
14. A married officer may be provided with a married quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as per the Establishment
Code. Married officers not in occupation of married quarters will be entitled to a rental allowance as stated in para 15 (b) (1 5).
15.  (a) Pay applicable for commissioned officers shall be as follows.
Flying Officer - Rs.275,220 - 34 x 7,740 = Rs.538,380 p.a
Flight Lieutenant - Rs. 321,660 - 28 x 7,740 = Rs.538,380 p.a
Squadron Leader - Rs. 352,620 - 24 x 7,740 = Rs.538,380 p.a
Wing Commander - Rs. 362,100 - 20 x 9,480 = Rs.551,700 p.a
Group Captain - Rs.441,060 - 18 x 12,600 = Rs.667,860 p.a
(b) Service Allowances :–
(1) Cost of living allowance for Flying Officer and above Rs.4,500 per month.
(2) Incentive allowance of Rs.250 per month after five years of serivice.
(3) Hardlying allowance Rs.600 per month
(4) Enhanced allowance Rs.5,000 per month for those serving in operational areas.
(5) Special allowance Rs.3,000 per month for those serving in the Jaffna Peninsula. (Rs.100 will be paid for each
working day at only Jaffna Peninsula)
(6) Uniform upkeep allowance Rs.255 per month
(7) Batman allowance Rs.637.50  per month (if permitted to live out).
(8) Ration allowance Rs.9,839.70 per month (if permitted to live out).
(9) Qualification pay where applicable (up to a maximum of Rs.637.50 per month).
(10) Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for officer, spouse and children)
(11) An additional set of railway warrants or the reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes to travel
from the Mess to the hometown once a month.
(12) Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
(13) Free medical facilities (including for families if applicable).
(14) Married officers permitted to live out are entitled to a free bus pass to travl from residence to place of work
within 30 miles radius.
(15) Rent allowance for married officers not in occuption of a government married quarter. Pilot Officer to Group
Captain and above Rs.1,600 to Rs.4,250 per month.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi ( (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h  - 2009'06'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2009
799
16. Pensions/Gratuities .— Payable in terms of the Air Force Pensions and Gratuties Code 1981 and as amended from time to
time. All officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions are as per
Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.
17. Instruction to applicants.—
(a) Applications should be submitted in applicants own hand writing in terms of the form specified below. All cages of the
application should be completed neatly with as much details as possible. Applications should be addressed to “Chief Recruiting Officer,
Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Katugoda” so as to reach him not later than 1200 noon on 12th June, 2009 under registered cover. The envelope
enclosing the application should be marked” Application for commission in the Electronics Engineering Branch” Applications rece ived
after the closing date and not in accordance with the requirements of this notification and not in registered post mail will no t be
entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishment should forward their applications
through their Heads of Department/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should bear  certificates to the effect that the candidate
will be released if selected.
(c) Applicants should attach to their applications copies of :
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth.
(2) Certificates of the highest academic and professional qualifications obtained.
(3) Certificates of character from at least two responsible persons who are personally acquainted with the applicant.
(4) Certificates in support of sports activities, cadetting etc.
(5) Certificate in support of any claims made in the application.
*Note :- Originals of these certificates should be produced only if and when the applicant is called for the interviews.
18. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection.
19. Selection Interview.—
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those cnadidates who fulfil the above conditions only. Candidates
so selected from the Preliminary Interview will be required to undergo a medical test as may be prescribed by
the Commander of the Air Force. The final selection will then be made after an interview appointed by the
Ministry of Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in writing of the place, time and date of such interviews. No
travelling or other expenses will be paid in this respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an interview he is to produce his National Identity Card issued
by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(d) Candidates likely to be suitable following their final interviews will be required to present themselves before an
Air Force Medical Board.
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his testimonial. Any form of canvassing
or attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
WDRMJ G
OONETILEKE,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi ( (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h  - 2009'06'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2009
800
APPLICATION FOR COMMISSION IN THE SRI LANKA
REGULAR AIR FORCE IN THE ...................BRANCH
1. Nationality :——————.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if latter, quote number and date of certificate).
2. Full Name (As per the National Identity Card):————.
3. National Identity Card Number:——————.
4. Branch Applied:——————.
5. Post applied:——————.
6. Permanent address:——————.
7. Nearest Police Station to permanent address:—————.
8. Postal address :—————.
9. Date of birth :—————.
10. Height:—————.
11. District:—————.
12. Electorate:—————.
13. GS Division:—————.
14. Telephone Number:—————.
15. Civil Status:—————.
16. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications obtained. :—————.
Name of School/ Type of Year of Subjects passed
University Examination Examination (including grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Professional Qualifications
Other
17. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University :- (if applicable)
Name and address of employer Nature of Employment Period of Service
From To
18. Particulars of parents :-
Full Name Place of Birth Occupation Present address
Father
Mother
19.  Any special qualification for the post :
20.  Details of current achievements in sports. (Give details of teams and competitions participated with dates/years  etc.  an d
standards/levels achieved)
21.  Other achievements of note at School/University or with outside organizations.(Give details with dates/Years etc.)
22.  Any previous service in the Armed Force or Volunteer Force, Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization.
23.  Have you applied  earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the outcome
of such applications :-

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi ( (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h  - 2009'06'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2009
801
24.  Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military court, if so give details.
25.  If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the Public Sector/Board/Corporation (including the Central Bank, National
Bank, Universities, joint Stock Companies controlled by the Government etc.) reasons for termination of employment :-
26. Particulars of testimonials :-
Name Designation Postal Addresss
27. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :-
I declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I
have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected for commission in the Sri Lanka, Air Force published in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
—————————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :——————.
06-102
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars – Marriages,  Births and Deaths
PUTTALAM DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for  the posts  of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in  the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should  be permanent  residents of the  said  Births  Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should   be
entitled to properties and have  acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both  Male and Female can  apply for  these  posts.
04. Applicants  should  be not  less  than  21 years and not   more than  65  years of age.
05. Applicants should  be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other  Qualifications  etc.  could be obtained from  the notices exhibited in public plac es
such  as District Secretariats, Land   and District   Registries, Divisional Secretaries  offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural  Development
Societies and Co – operative Societies  in the  Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the  offices of District Secretaries  (Government Agents) and  Land  and  District
Registries. Applications  should  be sent  by registered  post  to the  address given in the  Schedule on or  before 3rd July 2 009.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s  Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
6th May, 2009.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi ( (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h  - 2009'06'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2009
802
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and  Post for Address to Which
Secretariat Which  Applications are   Applications Should
Division  Called be Sent
Puttalam Kalpitiya Post  of Registrar of Births & District Secretary/
deaths  of Norochchole Additional Registrar
Division General, District Secretariat
Puttalam
Puttalam  Kalpitiya Post  of Registrar of Births & do.
deaths  of Pallivasalthurai
Division
06-30
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.,
MINISTRY OF  VOCATIONAL  AND TECHNICAL TRAINING
Admission for National Certificate in Information and Communication Technology (NCICT) Programs - July 2009
NATIONAL Certificate in Information and Communication Technology (NCICT) is  to be commenced on July 2009 at the following IT
Centers. The total course fee is Rs.6000 and the duration of the course is six months (full time basis).
Course fee can be paid in installments.
2. Minimum Entry Qualifications :
Educational Qualifications :
(i) Should have passed the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in 06 Subjects with 02 Credit Passes for English and Mathematics
in not more than 2 sittings.
or
(ii) Should have passed the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in 06 Subjects with 04 Credit Passes for any subject and 02 simple
Passes for English and Mathematics in not more than 2 sittings.
or
(iii) Should have passed the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in 06 Subjects with 03 Credit Passes for any subject and 02 simple
Passes for English and Mathematics and also should have 02 simple passes for any subject at the G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination in not more than 02 sittings.
Age Limit .—
Age should be not less than 16 years and not more than 25 years as at 22nd of June 2009.
3. Selection will be done through an aptitude test and an interview.
4. List of Centers in which the NCICT  Program will be conducted is given below. Please indicate the centre of your choice with
the relevant institution.
5. Applications prepared as per the specimen application form in A4 size paper (8.4" x 11.8") should be sent on or before 22nd
of June, 2009 to the address, which is indicated next to the centre of first preference. Please indicate the title “National Ce rtificate in
Information and Communication Technology” in the top left hand corner of the envelope.
Chairman,
Vocational Training Authority of Sri Lanka,
and IT Action Committee.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi ( (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h  - 2009'06'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2009
803
For office use only
MINISTRY OF VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL TRAINING
NATIONAL CERTIFICA TE IN INFORMA TION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY (NCICT) SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM - JULY 2009
1. Name with Initials :————————.
(Write in Block Letters)
2. Name in  Full :————————.
3. Permanent Address :————————.
4. Contact T. P. Number :————————.
5. District :————————.
6. Sex :————————.
7. Date of Birth : Year :————, Month :—————, Date :—————.
8. Age as at 22nd June, 2009 years  :—————. Months :—————. days:————.
9. Number of the National Identity Card and the Date issued
No :————————. Date issued :————————.
10. Selected Vocational Training Centre :
Institution Centre
11. Education Qualifications :
(i)  G. C. E. (O/L) Results: Index No : ——————. Year :—————.
Subject Grade
(ii)  G. C. E. (A/L) Results : Index No : ——————. Year: ——————.
Subject Grade
I do hereby certify that the above information is correct and accurate to the best of my Knowledge. I agree that if the information
submitted by me is false or inaccurate I am liable to be dismissed from my studentship
—————————,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :———————.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi ( (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h  - 2009'06'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2009
804
CENTRES UNDER THE VOCATIONAL TRAINING AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA (VTASL)
Centre Mailing Address
01. Vocational Traning Centre, Padukka Assistant Director, Colombo District Office, V ocational Training
Authority  of Sri Lanka, YMBA Building, Sarana Road, Welikanda,
Rajagiriya.
02. National V ocational Training Institute, Rathmalana Assistant Director, National Vocational Training Institute, No. 100,
Kandawala Rd., Rathmalana.
03. National Vocational Training Institute, Baddegama Training Manager, National Vocational Training Institute, Makurugoda
Rd.Baddegama.
04. District Vocational Training Centre, Elpitiya
05. Vocational Training Centre, Thawalama
06. V ocational Training Centre, Yakkalamulla Assistant Director, District Office, Talbot Town, Galle.
07. Vocational Training Centre Imaduwa
08. Vocational Training Centre, Urawaththa
09. Vocational Training Centre, Hikkaduwa.
10. District Vocational Training Centre, Paramulla, Assistant Director, District Vocational Training Centre, Pantaramaya,
Matara Pahala Peakwella, Matara.
11. Vocational Training Centre, Y . M. B. A. Building, Assistant Director, District Office, Vocational Training Authority of Sri
Kandy. Lanka,. Gannoruwa Road, Peradeniya.
12. Vocational Training Centre, Kotabogoda,
Kadugannawa.
13. Vocational Training Centre, Peradeniya
14. District V ocational Training Centre, Veyangoda Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, V ocational
Traning Authority of Sri Lanka, Veyangoda.
15. Nalanda Ellawala Vocational Training Centre, Assistant Director, District Office, Vocational Training Authority of
Thumbagoda, Balangoda Sri lanka Panawenna, Kahawatta.
16. District V ocational Training Centre, Inamuluwa,
Dambulla Assi stant Director, District Vocational Traning Centre, Inamaluwa,
17. Vocational Training Centre, Minneriya Dambulla
18. Vocational Training Centre, Ella Road, Wellawaya Assistant Director , District Office, Vocational Training Authority of
Sri Lanka Niwasa Adikariya Road, Monaragala.
19. Vocational Training Centre, Iginiyagala Road, Ampara
20. Vocational Training Centre, Karativu
21. V ocational Training Centre, Saindamarudu Assistant Di rector, District V ocational Training Centre, MACFA
Garment Factory Building. Akkareipatu Road, Nindaur.
22. Vocational Training Centre, Akkareipattu
23. District Vocational Training Centre, Vandaramulai
24. Vocational Training Center, Eraur Assistant Director , District  V ocational Training Centre, Vandaramulai
25. Vocational Training Center, Kalawanchikudy Batticaloa.
26. Vocational Training Center, Kalladi
27. District Vocational Training Centre, Ambegoda, Assistant Director, District office, Vocational Training Authority of
Bandarawela Sri Lanka, Ambegoda, Bandarawela.
28. Vocational Training Centre, Rock Hill, Badulla
29. District Vocational Training Centre, Mirijjawila, Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, Henakaduwa
Hambantota Sri Sudharshanaramaya Tangalle.
30. Vocational Training Centre, Madamulana
31. Vocational Training Centre, Rambewa, Mihintale
32. Vocational Training Centre, Kantale Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, Kandy Lake
33. Regional IT Centre, Kandy Lake Road, Anuradhapura Road, Anuradhapura.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi ( (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h  - 2009'06'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2009
805
34. District Vocational Training Centre, Ballapana, Assistant Director, District Vocational Training Centre, Ballapana,
Galigamuwa Galigamuwa.
35. District Vocational Training Centre, Horana Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, Wewala, Horana
36. V ocational Training Centre, Kandeviharaya
37. V ocational Training Centre, Bingiriya Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, Saragama,
Kurunegala.
38. District Vocational Training Centre, Marawila Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, Chillaw Road,
Marawila.
CENTERS UNDER THE NATIONAL APPRENTICE AND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING AUTHORITY (NAITA)
Centre Mailing Address
39. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Province Director, “NAITA”, North Central Province Office, 525/2
Medawachchiya Maithreepala Senanayake Mawatha, 2nd Stage, Rathnayakapura,
40. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Anuradhapura.
Polonnaruwa
41. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA,
Jaffna
42. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Province Director, “NAITA” Northern Province Office No.7, Temple
Vaddukodai Jaffna
43. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA,
V avuniya
44. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, AETI, Director/Principal, AETI, 07, Danister De Silva Mawatha,
Orugodawatte Orugodawatta, Wellampitiya.
45. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Province Director, “NAITA” Southern Province Office, 27/A,
Matara Open University Avenue, Nupe, Matara.
46. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA,
Elpitiya
47. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Province Director, “NAITA” Central Province office,
Katugastota 108/2B, Thiwankabodhi Mw., Kandy
48. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA,
Hatton
49. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Province Director, “NAITA” Western Province Office, 242,
Beruwala. Havelock Road, Colombo 05
50. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA,
Embilipitiya
51. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Province Director, “NAITA” Sabaragamuwa Province Office,
Mawanella College Avenue, New Town, Ratnapura.
52. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA,
Yatiyantota
53. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Province Manager, “NAITA” Eastern Province Office, No.07
Trincomalee G. S. Lane, Kalmunaikudi -13, Kalmunai
54. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Province Manager “NAITA” Uva Province Office, No.288,
Badulla Kumarasinghe Mawatha, Off Passara Road, Badulla
55. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Province Manager, “NAITA” Western Province Office,
Madampe Negombo Road, Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala.
56. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA,
Galgamuwa.
Centre Mailing Address

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi ( (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h  - 2009'06'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2009
806
CENTERS UNDER THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICES COUNCIL (NYSC)
Centre Mailing Address
57. V ocational Training Centre, National Youth  Centre O. I. C. National Youth Centre, 65, High Level Road,
Maharagama Maharagama.
58. Rikillagaskada Youth Empowerment Centre, O. I. C. Rikillagaskada Training Centre, National Youth Services
Nuwara- Eliya Council, Rikillagaskada.
59. V ocational Training Centre, Kurunegala O. I. C. District Office, National Youth services Council,
Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala.
60. V ocational Training Centre, Makola Manager, Korea- Lanka Friendship Techincal Training Institute,
National Youth Services Council, Sapugaskanda, Makola.
61. V ocational Training Centre, Naula O. I. C. Naula Training Centre, National Youth Services Council,
Divisional Secretariat, Office, Arangala, Naula.
62. V ocational Training Centre, Chilaw O. I. C. District office, National Youth Services Council, Ananda
Mawatha, Chilaw
63. V ocational Training Centre, Moneragala O. I. C. Moneragala V ocational Training Centre, National Youth service
Council, Praja Shalawa Road, Kachcheriya Junction, Moneragala.
64. V ocational Training Centre, Kobawaka O. I. C. Kobawaka V ocational Training Centre, National Youth Service
Council, Kobawaka, Govinna.
65. V ocational Training Centre, Ratmalana O. I. C. Ratmalana Vocational Training  Centre, Railway Station Road,
Ratmalana.
66. V ocational Training Centre, Vauniya O. I. C. Vavuniya Vocational Training Centre, National Youth Service
Council, Kandy Road, Vauniya.
06-44/1
MINISTRY  OF  VOCATIONAL  AND  TECHNICAL  TRAINING
Admission for National Diploma in Information and Communication Technology (NDICT) Programs - July 2009
1. National Diploma in Information and Communication Technology (NDICT) is to be commenced on July 2009 at the following IT
Center.
The total course fee is Rs.20,000 and the duration of the course is One year (full time basis) Course fee can be paid in Installments.
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA
Centre Mailing Address
01. National Information and Communication Technology Training Manager, IT Center, 354, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Training Center - Narahenpita (VTA) Narahenpita
2. Minimum Entry Qualification  .—
(1) Holder of NCICT
or
(2) Six passes in not more than two sittings with credits for English and Mathematics in GCE (O/L) and any full time six months
computer certificate course, which should include following areas :
(1) Computer Basics (DOS, Widows, Principles of  Networking, Hardware)
(2) Office Automation (Word Processing, Spread Sheets, Presentation software and Database Software)
(3) Internet and WWW wit HTML programming
(4) Systems Analysis and Design
Age Limit .— Age should not be less than 18 years and not more than 30 years as at 22nd June 2009.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi ( (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h  - 2009'06'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2009
807
(3) Selection will be done through an aptitude test and an interview.
(4) Application prepared as per the specimen application form in A4 size paper (8. 4" x 11.8") should be sent on or before 22nd
June 2009 to address, which is indicated next to the centre of first preference. Please indicate the title “National Diploma in  Information
and Communication Technology” in the  top left hand corner of the envelope.
Chairman,
Vocational Training Authority of Sri Lanka,
and IT Action Committee.
July 2009
For Office use only
MINISTRY OF VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL TRAINING
NATIONAL DIMPLOMA IN INFORMA TION AND COMMUNICA TION TECHNOLOGY (NDICT) SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM - JULY 2009
1. Name with initials :————.
(Write in Block Letters)
2. Name in full :————.
3. Permanent Address : ————. Contact T. P. Number :————.
4. District :————.
5. Sex :————.
6. Date of Birth : Year :————, Month :————, Date  :————,
7. Age as at 22nd June, 2009 : Years : –––––––,    Months :–––––––,
8. Number of the National  Identity Card and the Date Issued  :————,
9. Selected Vocational Training Centre :
Institution Centre
10. Centre at which NCICT/any other six months computer course followed :
11. Index No. of Final NCICT exam (if any) : Grade Obtained (if any)
12. Educational Qualifications :
(i) G. C. E. (O/L) Results : Index No.  :————. Year  :————.
Subject Grade
(ii) G. C. E. (A/L) Results : Index No. :————. Year :————.
Subject Grade
The information given before is true and correct.
————————,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :————.
06-44/2

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi ( (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h  - 2009'06'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2009
808
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III          ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi ( (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h  - 2009'06'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2009
809
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
JUNE 05.06.2009 Friday — 22.05.2009 Friday 12 noon
12.06.2009 Friday –– 29.05.2009 Friday 12 noon
19.06.2009 Friday –– 05.06.2009 Friday 12 noon
26.06.2009 Friday –– 12.06.2009 Friday 12 noon
JULY 03.07.2009 Friday — 19.06.2009 Friday 12 noon
10.07.2009 Friday –– 26.06.2009 Friday 12 noon
17.07.2009 Friday –– 03.07.2009 Friday 12 noon
24.07.2009 Friday –– 10.07.2009 Friday 12 noon
31.07.2009 Friday –– 17.07.2009 Friday 12 noon
AUGUST 07.08.2009 Friday — 24.07.2009 Friday 12 noon
14.08.2009 Friday –– 31.07.2009 Friday 12 noon
21.08.2009 Friday –– 07.08.2009 Friday 12 noon
28.08.2009 Friday –– 14.08.2009 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.