

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 635
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"012 – 2017 ud¾;= ui 24 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'03'24
No. 2,012 –  fRiday ,  maRch  24, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 12th april, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 31st  march, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B.– Part iii of the Gazette No. 2011 of 17.03.2017 was not published.
Note.–   (i) intellectual Property (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of march 03, 2017. 
 (ii) Office on Missing Persons (Establishment, Administration and Discharge of Functions) (Amendment) Bill was 
published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of march 03, 
2017. 
633-B 81154- 5,403(03/2017)

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2017
634
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing	an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any	file	cover,	card	board	pad,	folded	newspapers,	brown	papers	should	
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		Be		at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	the	
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification	 documents	 at	 the	 Examination	 Hall,	 his	 candidature	 is	
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working	of	the	problem.	Necessary	sketches,	diagrams	and	figures	should	
be	accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		 answer	running	into	serveral	
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2017
635
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
JuDICIAL SERvICE COmmISSION 
Open Competitive Examination for the 
Recruitment of Officers to the Post of Courts 
Typist (Sinhala/Tamil/English) Grade III in the 
Courts management Assistant Service - 2017
APPLICATIONS are called to recruit officers to the Courts 
typist (Sinhala/ tamil/English) Grade iii of the courts 
management assistant Service in the Scheduled Public 
Officers Service from those who possess the qualifications 
mentioned in this notice. 
02. the post is permanent and pensionable. 
03. Salary Scheme.- the post carries a salary scale of  
Rs. 28,940 -10x300 -11x350 - 10x560 -10x660 - Rs. 47,990 
(monthly). the initial salary step would be Rs. 28,940 
(this salary will be paid in accordance with Schedule ii of 
P. a. circular No. 03/2016 till 01.01.2020).
04. Age.- the applicants should be not less than 18 
years and not more than 30 years of age by the closing 
date. (Upper age limit will not apply to applicants from 
Government Service). 
05. Educational Qualifications.- applicants should 
possess following qualifications : 
 (a) Should have passed G. c. E. (o/L) Examination 
in six (06) subjects including Sinhala/t amil/
English Language and mathematics in not less 
than two sittings with credit passes for four 
(04) subjects including Sinhala/t amil/English 
Language. Nevertheless 05 of these subjects 
should be passed at one sitting ; or
 (b) Any other equivalent or higher qualifications ; 
and
 (c) Should have successfully passed a typing course 
(Sinhala/tamil/English) at the National youth 
Services council, National apprentice training 
authority, a technical college or a Government 
registered training institute by the closing date. 
06. an examination will be held for the applicants and 
those who have reached the required limit of marks will be 
recruited after an interview. the selected applicants should 
serve in any part of the island in which they are called upon 
to serve after recruitment. 
07. Syllabus : 
Sinhala/Tamil medium :
 (a) Sinhala/tamil Language and 
  composition - marks 100
 (b) Sinhala/tamil typewriting - 
  minimum speed of 20 words per 
  minute for 20 minutes -  marks 150
 (c) General knowledge - marks 50
 (d) Sinhala/tamil Stenography - marks 50
  (optional)
  an interview - marks 50
        400
english Medium :
 (a) English Language and 
  composition - marks 100
 (b) English typewriting - minimum 
  speed of 40 words per minute 
  for 20 minutes - marks 150
 (c) General knowledge - marks 50
 (d) English Stenography (optional) - marks 50
  an interview - marks 50
                      400 
Note : (i) The Sinhala/Tamil/English Stenography 
paper is not compulsory. however, 
candidates proficient in Stenography are 
advised to offer this subject, as it will be an 
additional qualification. 
 (ii) Neatness and accuracy will be taken into 
account in marking the scripts. 
08. the specimen form of application for this 
examination is published at the end of this notification. 
the applicants should prepare the application forms in 
compliance with the format set out below. the receipt 
obtained by paying a non refundable amount of Rs. 500 
administrative fee from any People's Bank branch to 
the credit of the account of "Secretary, Judicial Service 
commission" No. 297100199025039 of the People's Bank, 
Dam Street branch should be affixed on the due place of 
the applications. 
09. application should be sent under registered cover 
addressed to the Secretary, Judicial Service commission 
Secretariat, colombo 12 to reach on or before 28.04.2017. 
the envelope containing the application should be marked 
"application for the post of courts typist (Sinhala/tamil/
English) Grade iii - 2017" on its top left hand corner. 
applications received after the closing date will be rejected. 
Applications from Officers in Public Service should be 
submitted through their respective heads of departments. 

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2017
636
10. any questions with regard to the application, the 
decision of the Secretary, Judicial Service commission 
will be final. 
 PradeeP Jayathilake, 
 high court Judge/acting Secretary, 
 Judicial Service commission. 
Judicial Service commission Secretariat, 
colombo 12,
03rd march, 2017.
JUdiciaL SERVicE commiSSioN
OPen COmPetitive examinatiOn fOr the reCruitment Of 
OffiCers tO the POst Of COurts tyPist (sinhala/tamil/
english) grade iii in the COurts management assistant 
serviCe - 2017
 Index No. :
 
 (For office use only)
(N. B.- The form should be correctly and legibly filled 
by own hand-writing of the applicant. Write the given 
number in the relevant cage)
01.  (i) Name with initials :–––––––––––.
  (ii) Names denoted by initials :–––––––––––.
02. Gender : Female 01
     male 02
03.  (i) Permanent Address  :–––––––––––.
  (ii) District :–––––––––––.
04. Telephone Numbers :
  (i) Home :–––––––––––.
  (ii) Mobile :–––––––––––.
05. National Identity Card Number :
06.  (a) Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
  (b) Age as at 28.04.2017 :
   Years :–––––––. Months :––––––.Days :––––––.
07. If already employed in the Government Service :
  (i) Ministry/Department :–––––––––––.
  (ii) Present post :–––––––––––.
  (iii) Date of appointment to the present post :––––––.
  (iv) Date of confirmation in the present post :––––––.
  (v) Official address :–––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications : 
 (indicate results of each examination separately with 
their index numbers)
 G. C. E. (O/L) Examination : 
 Year :–––––––––––.   Index No. :–––––––––––.
  Serial No. Subject Grade
 Year :–––––––––––.  Index No. :–––––––––––.
  Serial No. Subject Grade
  (b) Any other equivalent or higher qualifications : 
–––––––––––.
  (c) details of the typing course passed (indicate 
details as stipulated in para. 05(c) of the Gazette) 
:–––––––––––.
Note : Affix below the receipt obtained by paying the 
relevant fee according to the instructions given in 
the circular so as not to be detached
i certify that to the above information given in this form 
are true and accurate to my knowledge and i also agree to 
be bound by the rules governing the examination. i am also 
aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to 
be false or incorrect before appointment, i am liable to be 
disqualified and if so found after appointment I am liable 
to be dismissed without any compensation. 
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature. 
Date :–––––––––––.
Attestation of Applicant's Signature
(Not applicable for applicants already in the Government 
Services)
i certify that the applicant mr./mrs./miss. 
.............................. is known to me personally and that he/
she placed his/her signature before me on ......................
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of attestor. 
Date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2017
637
(applicant's signature should be attested by a Principle 
of a Government School or a Justice of Peace or a 
commissioner for oaths or an attorney-at-Law or a Notary 
Public or a Commissioned Officer in the three forces or 
a permanent Government Officer drawing a monthly 
consolidated salary of not less than Rs. 47,615). 
Recommendation of Head of the Department
i, hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss ..........................
............. employed in this ........................ possesses the 
required educational/professional qualifications to apply 
for the typist (Sinhala/tamil/English) Grade iii post and 
that he/she can be released from the present post, if selected 
to the above post and that he/she signed before me and that 
his/her application form is recommended and forwarded. 
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of department.
 Stamp :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
03-1122
––––––––––––––––
DEPARTmENTAL   ExAmINATION   fOR   
PRELImINARy   GRADE mEDICAL   
OffICERS   AND   DENTAL   
SuRGEONS – mARCh,  2017
it is hereby notified that the Departmental Examination 
should be passed by Medical Officers in Preliminary Grade 
before promotion to Grade ii, By dental Surgeons before 
confirmation in the service and by the Medical officers 
in administrative Grade or Specialist Grade who have 
not completed this departmental Examination during a 
period of two years from the date of appointment to such 
post as per Section 08 of the medical Service minute of 
Sri Lanka in the health Services published in the Gazette 
extraordinary of the democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka No. 1883/17 of 11.10.2014, will be held on 
29.04.2017 in Sinhala, tamil and English medium. the 
venue and the time of the examination will be notified 
along with the admission card.
02. Qualifications.– Medical Officers in the Preliminary 
Grade who have not completed the relevant examination 
and Dental Surgeons who are not confirmed in the service 
can apply for this examination. Medical officer appointed 
to a post in the administrative Grade or Speicalist Grade 
without having completed this examination also can apply 
for the above Examination.
03. Applications.– applications that should be prepared 
by the candidates as per specimen shown at the end of this 
circular must be handed over to the head of the institute on 
or before 23.03.2017. The applications that are certified as 
all the eligibilities have been fulfilled, should be forwarded 
to the director (Examinations), ministry of health, 
Nutrition and indigenous medicine, “Suwasiripaya”, No. 
385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha, 
colombo 10, on or before 30.03.2017 through their heads 
of institutions. the head of division should certify the 
accuracy of contents in each application. a self addressed 
envelope in the size of 9” x 4” inches, affixed with stamps 
to the value of Rs. 35.00 should be sent along with the 
application. (Candidates can write their official or private 
address). applications which are received late, incomplete 
or inaccurate will be rejected.
Note.– the application should be prepared using 
an a4 paper based on the specimen form of the 
application so as to recommended from 01 to 04(e) 
on the first front page and from 04(f) to 09 on the 
second page. applications which do not conform 
to above will be rejected any information. 
04. examination fees :
 (i)  Candidates who sit the examination for the first 
time need not pay examination fees. however, in 
every subsequent sitting they should affix stamps 
to the value of Rs. 25 per subject in the stamps 
cage provided for in the application and cancel 
same by placing their signature and the date.
 (ii)  the fees once paid will not be allowed to transfer 
for any other Examination or refunded under any 
circumstances.
05. Admission to the examination:
 (i)  candidates whose applications have been 
accepted will be issued with admission cards. 
they should duly complete and submit same 
to the Supervisor at the Examination centre. 
otherwise they will not be allowed to sit the 
examination.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2017
638
 (ii)  candidates should prove their identity to the Supervisor at the examination hall. for this purpose one of 
the following documents will be accepted :
  (a) National identity card ;
  (b) departmental identity card ;
  (c) Valid driving License ;
  (d) Valid Passport.
 (iii) if you did not receive your admission card due to any unavoidable reason you can trace your examination 
centre and the index number through the web site ; if you were able to trace your examination centre 
and the index number as mentioned above you are permitted to be presented at the examination centre 
in the web site together with a letter attesting your signature by your immediate superior officer and sit 
the examination by establishment of your identity. the applicants who have received the admission card 
should certify their signature and should be bought. The applicants who have obtained the certification on 
their signature will not be entitled to face the examination. (Web site : www.health.gov.lk).
06. Scheme of the examination.– the examination will consists of four parts that is three written essay type 
question papers and a Sinhala/tamil oral test. Each part carries 100 marks. a minimum of 50 marks should be obtained 
for each part to pass the examination and this examination could be completed in one sitting or appearing for the parts of 
the examination in several sittings. At the first attempt officer should appear for all relevant subjects. 
07. Syllabus of the examination :
7.1 Written examination :
 7.1.1  Establishments Code Questions Paper :
  Duration 02 hours. Should answer five (05) out of eight (08) questions.  
Syllabus :
 (i)  General Regulations of the department of health Services in health ministry ;
 (ii)  orders and Regulations of the Public Service commission ;
 (iii) establishments Code :
Part i - chapters Vi, Vii, Viii, iX, Xii, Xiii, XiV , XV , XVi, XVii, XViii, XXiii, XXiV , XXV , XXVi, 
XXVii, XXViii, XXX, XXXi, XXXii
Part ii - chapters XLVii and XLViii ;
 7.1.2  Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries Questions Paper :
  duration 1 1/2 hours. total marks 100. Should answers four (04) questions out of seven (07) questions.
  Syllabus :
  Health Manual :
 (i) administration of hospital and Public health, 
 (ii) management of Laboratory Services, 
 (iii) management of drugs.
 7.1.3  Accounts Questions Paper :
  duration 02 hours. Should answer 04 questions out of 07 questions.  
  Syllabus :
  (i)  Regulations of Stores accounts of the department of health Services ;
 (ii)  Sections of finance in the manual of the department of health Services ;

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2017
639
 (iii) Financial Regulations relating to the daily routine duties of a Medical Officer of Health -  
chapter i - f . R. 1, 2, 78.
chapter ii - f . R. 90, 91, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 113, 115, 118, 119.
chapter iii - f . R. 124, 125, 126, 127, 128, 131, 133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 138, 139, 140, 142, 
143, 151, 152, 154, 155, 156, 189.
chapter V - f . R. 200, 201, 215, 225, 238, 245, 255, 257, 260.
chapter Vi - f . R. 380, 381, 382, 383, 384, 385, 386, 388, 389, 390, 391, 392, 393 394.
chapter Vii - f . R. 488, 493.
chapter Xiii - f . R. 715, 716, 756, 757, 758.
Procurement Guideline : 
chapter 1 - all Sections
chapter 2 - Section number - 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8.
chapter 3 - Section number - 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9.   
7.2 Viva Voce - Sinhala/Tamil : This oral test is conducted by the staff officers of the Departmental to measure 
the proficiency in Sinhala/Tamil. Ability of the Sinhala medium officers to communicate in Tamil medium 
and the ability of the Tamil medium officers to communicate in Sinhala medium regarding the matters that 
arise while discharging their normal duties is tested. duration 10 minutes. 
08. To follow the regulations related to examination Procedure.- candidates are warned against copying or 
attempting to copy from the script of another candidate or from any book or paper or notes whatsoever. No candidate 
should attempt to look at the script of another candidate and should not help any candidate either help another candidate 
or obtain help from another candidate or person. further mobile phones and the similar electronic equipments should not 
be used. any candidate who disregards this rule is liable to punishment. 
09. Please bring the contents of this circular to the notice of all relevant officers in your Division/Specialized 
compaign/institution. the information is also available in the Web Site - www.health.gov.lk
N.B.– Sinhala medium notification on examination will be effected if any contradictory is arisen in the 
examination notifications published in Tamil and English mediums. 
 
m. B. l. rahuman,
 deputy director General (admin.) ii,
 for Secretary 
 ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine. 
ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine,  
“Suwasiripaya”,
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha,
colombo 10,
10th march, 2017.
Specimen form of Application
 
For Office Use Only                
dEPaRtmENtaL  EXamiNatioN  foR  PRELimiNaRy  GRadE
mEdicaL  officERS  aNd  dENtaL  SURGEoNS - maRch, 2017
01. (a)  (i)  Full Name of the Applicant (In Sinhala) :–––––––––––––.
 (ii)  Full Name of the Applicant (In English Capitals Block Letters) :

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2017
640
 (iii)  Name with initials (In Sinhala) :–––––––––––––.
 (iv) Names with initials (In English Block Letters) :
  (b)  (i)  designation (Please mark () in relevant cage) :
   (i) Medical Officer   (ii) Dental Surgeon
 (ii)  Date of Internship Appointment :–––––––––––––.
 (iii)  Date of appointment to the Preliminary Grade/Grade II :–––––––––––––.
02. Subjects offered (mark ‘’ within the cages against the subjects you offer in this Examination. mark “X” against the 
subjects not offered) :
 admin. of hospitals and dispensaries Est. code  accounts
 Sinhala Viva Voce t amil Viva Voce
03. medium you sit for the examination  (mark ‘ ’ in relevant cage)
 Sinhala :                     English :                       Tamil : 
04.  (a)  (i) Present Station :–––––––––––. 
  (ii) This Institution belongs to :  Line Ministry
       Provincial council
 (b)   (i) if Provincial Council mention Province :–––––––––––.
   (ii) District of the Present Station :–––––––––––.
 (c) Telephone No. :
 (d) Identity Card No. :
 (e)  Please mark  “” in the relevant cage of the examination centre you prefer out of the following centers. (if any 
or several examination centres, out of those given below, would be cancelled due to a departmental requirement 
or due to absence of a sufficient number of candidates. In such an instance, the candidates already attached to 
such centers would be re-attached to a closest examination centre or to another centre as decided by the director 
General of health Services).
  colombo Kandana hambantota ampara
  Kaluthara Galle Badulla Vavuniya
  Kurunegala anuradhapura Rathnapura Polonnaruwa
  Kandy Batticaloa Jaffna trincomalie
 (f)  Whether two self-addressed envelope in the size of 9x4 inches with stamps affixed to the value of Rs. 35.00 has 
been attached to the application to post the Admission Card? :––––––––––.
 (g)  (i)  Postal Address to post the Admission Card (In Sinhala) :––––––––––––.
  (ii) Postal Address to post the Admission Card (In English) :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2017
641
05.  (a)  Whether you sit for the examination for the first time :––––––––––––.
 (b)  If not so, have you affixed stamps to the application? :––––––––––––.
Stamp cage
06. Certificate of the Candidate :
 (i)  i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge 
and I need not affix stamps since, I sit the Examination for the first time/have affixed stamps to the value of   
Rs. ………… since i repeat the Examination,* and the stamps affixed by me to the application are genuine and 
not used.
 (ii)  i agree to abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by the department of health for the conduct of this 
Examination and if i was found ineligible in accordance with the scheme of the Examination i agree with 
whatever decision taken for the cancellation of my candidature.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
07. Certification of the officer who handle the Personal File : 
I certified that this application was hand over to me before the closing date and particulars furnished by the 
applicant in this application are true and accurate according to the particulars in the personal file and a copy of this 
application is attached to the personal file. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Name and Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
08. Certification of Head of Institution :
 
i certify that mr./mrs./miss ……….................. serves as a ................................... in this institution, and the 
particulars furnished by him/her in the application are correct according to the particulars in his/her personal file, and he/
she sit the examination for the first time and he/she is eligible to sit this examination and he/she placed his/her signature 
in my presence.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of institution.
 (Rubber Stamp)
Date :–––––––––––.
09. Certificate of the Head of Decentralized Unit/Specialized Campaign :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss …………… serves as a Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon* in my Division/Campaign* and the 
particulars furnished by him/her* in the application are correct in accordance with the particulars available in his/her* 
personal file and he/she* is eligible to sit for the Examination.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of head of decentralized Unit/
 Specialized campaign (frank/Rubber Stamp).
Date :––––––––––––.
(* - delete words which are inapplicable)
03–1137

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2017
642
mINISTRy Of AGRICuLTuRE
Department of Agriculture
oPEN/LimitEd comPEtitiVE EXamiNatioN foR REcRUitmENt to PoStS iN thE GRadE iii of thE 
SRi LaNKa tEchNoLoGicaL SERVicE iN thE dEPaRtmENt of aGRicULtURE - 2017
APPLICATIONS are called from citizens of Sri Lanka who have fulfilled the following qualifications for Open/Limited 
competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade iii of the Posts of agricultural instructor/Research assistant of the Sri 
Lanka technological Service in the department of agriculture. the closing date of applications is 21.04.2017.
 02.1 Recruitment on Open Basis : 
 02.1.1 the age of applicants should not be less than 18 years and not more than 30 years as at 21.04.2017 
the closing date of applications. (Accordingly, any applicant qualifies to sit the examination in terms 
of the age only if his/her date of birth falls on or before 21.04.1998 and on or after 21.04.1998).
 02.1.2 The candidates are required to fulfill the following Basic Educational Qualifications and Professional 
Qualifications : 
Code No. 
relevant to 
the post Post
02.1.3 Educational Qualifications
  G. C. E. (O/L)                   G. C. E. (A/L) 
   examination                      examination
02.1.4 Professional Qualifications
01
02
agricultural 
instructor
Research 
assistant
a pass in G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination in 06 (six) 
subjects with credit 
passes in Sinhala/tamil/
English Language, 
mathematics, Science 
and any other subject at 
one sitting
a pass in G. c. E. 
(a/L) Examination 
in 03 (three) science 
subjects with two 
science subjects out of 
agriculture, Biology, 
chemistry, Physics, 
Zoology at one sitting 
(Except General 
English and General 
test)
(i) two year agriculture 
diploma awarded by an 
institution approved by the 
tertiary and V ocational 
Education commission ;
or
(ii) completion of National 
V ocational Qualifications 
(NVQ) Level 6 in relevance 
to the field of the job
or
(iii) Qualifications accepted by 
the tertiary and V ocational 
Education commission 
subsequent to consulting the 
ministry of higher Education 
and institutions that award 
above technical certificates 
as equivalent to the above 
qualifications in every 
respect
 02.1.5 Other Qualifications.- All Applicants should certify that they have fulfilled the following qualifications : 
 * Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 * Should be an excellent moral character, 
 * a  clergy in any religious sect is not eligible to apply for this examination. 
 * Should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the island. 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2017
643
 02.2 Recruitment on Limited Basis :
2.2.1  
Code No. 
relevant to 
the Post
Post 02.2.2 educational 
Qualification 
G. C. E. (O/L) 
examination
02.2.3 Professional Qualifications experience
01
02
agricultural 
instructor
Research 
assistant
a pass in G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination in 06 (six) 
subjects with credit 
passes in Sinhala/tamil/
English Language, 
mathematics, Science 
and any other subject 
at not more than two 
sitting
(i) two year agriculture diploma 
awarded by an institution 
approved by the tertiary 
and V ocational Education 
commission ;
or
(ii) completion of National 
V ocational Qualifications (NVQ 
Level 6 in relevant to the field 
of the jog) ;
or
(iii) Qualifications accepted by 
the tertiary and V ocational 
Education commission 
subsequent to consulting the 
ministry of higher Education 
and institutions that award 
above technical certificates 
as equivalent to the above 
qualifications in every respect.
completion of 
a period of 05 
years active and 
satisfactory service 
with professional 
qualifications in a 
departmental post in 
the relevant field. 
02.2.4  Other Qualifications : 
 (i) Should be confirmed in the post, 
 (ii) Should complete satisfactory service during the period of 05 years immediately proceeding to the due 
date. 
03. Fulfillment of the qualifications required to appear in this writing examination for recruitment to the service 
will be recognized only if the officer has completed the all qualifications in every respect on or before the closing date of 
applications. 
04. By vacancies existing in the Department 70% will be filled from open stream and 30% will be filled from 
limited stream. In case, there is no sufficient number of internal applicants who have satisfied the basic qualifications 
in the Department of Agriculture to be filled the percentage allocated to recruit from limited competition examination, 
remaining vacancies will be filled from external applicants who will be selected by the Open Competitive Examination. 
Further the Appointing Authority has reserved the authority to fill some of or all vacancies or to unfill all vacancies.
Salary and Efficiency Bar Examinations : 
Salary code - mN - 03/2016a
Salary Scale - Rs. 31,040 -10x445 - 11x660 -10x730 -10x750 - Rs. 57,550.
Salary, Salary increments and allowances will be paid up to 01.01.2020 in accordance with the provisions of 
Public administration circular 03/2016.
The First Efficiency Bar Examination should be completed within three (3) years from the date of appointment 
to the Grade III and the Second Efficiency Bar Examination should be completed within three (3) years from the date 
of promotion to Grade II. An officer who has joined the Public Service in a Language other than the Official Languages 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2017
644
should acquire the proficiency in official language as prescribed within the period of probation. For the fulfillment of the 
proficiency in other language prescribed for the post, the test of secondary merit level language course conducted by the 
Commissioner of Official Languages should be passed as per sub - para : 1(b) of the P. A. Circular 07/2007, within five 
(5) years from the date of appointment. Failure to obtain the proficiency in Official Languages and pass the Efficiency Bar 
Examinations within the periods as prescribed will be a cause for the deferment of salary increments. 
05. Terms of engagement :
 (i) these posts are permanent and pensions will be determined on the policy decision taken by the 
Government. 
 (ii) y ou should serve in any part of the island in which you are called upon to serve and priority will be 
given to fill the vacancies in institutions in the districts of Anuradhapura, Polonnaruwa, Ampara, Kandy 
(hasalaka), monaragala, hambantota and North and Eastern Provinces. 
 (iii) y ou will be subject to the conditions of the minutes on the Sri Lanka technological Service published in 
the Gazette extraordinary of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1930/12 of 01.09.2015, 
effective at present and any other amendments hereinafter made thereto and to the recruitment procedures. 
06. Method of Application :
 (a) The specimen of the application for this examination is appended at the end of this notification. The 
application should accordingly be prepared only on a4 size (21cmx 29cm) paper using both sides of the 
paper, so as heads 01 to 03 in the first page, 04 to 06 in the second page, 07 to 10 in the third page and the 
rest in the forth page of the application. The relevant particulars should be filled by applicant in his/her 
own hand writing. the name of the examination appears in the heading of the application prepared either 
in Sinhala or tamil Language in required to be printed in English language as well. applications which 
are not in accordance with the specimen and incomplete applications will be rejected without notice. it 
would be an advantage to keep a photocopy of the application with you. further, applicant should check 
whether the application prepared by him/her is in order of the specimen appended to this notification. 
Unless the application may be rejected. 
 (b) hence, both open/limited examinations will be held as one examination, an applicant can't apply for 
both open and limited categories of the examination. accordingly, an applicant can apply only for one 
category out of open and limited categories. 
 (c) In case of applying for both posts given in this notification, only one application should be forwarded. 
 (d) the application should be completed only in the language in which the applicant intends to sit for the 
examination. 
 (e) duly completed applications should be sent by registered post to director General of agriculture, Pa/01 
Branch, Department of Agriculture, Head Office, Peradeniya on or before 21.04.2017.
 (f) the words "open competitive Examination for recruitment to the Posts of Sri Lanka technological 
Service in the department of agriculture - 2017 should clearly be marked on the top left hand corner of 
the envelop enclosing the application.
 (g) an applicant can apply for both posts and the examination fee is Rs. 600. the receipt (original) obtained 
on the payment of the above examination fee to People's Bank Branch in the island with the instructions 
to credit the payment to the account of the director General of agriculture No. 057-1001-7-902-7204 
should be affixed in the space provided in the application. Keeping a copy of the receipt with you would 
be an advantage in the future. the Examination fee will not be refunded in any circumstance and money 
orders and stamps will not be accepted. 
 (h) applications which are not complete in every respect or delayed will be rejected without notice and no 
complaint that an application has been lost or delayed in the post will be considered. 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2017
645
 (i) the signature of the applicant in the application for the examination and admission card should have to 
be got attested. an applicant apply for the examination through an institutions should get attested his 
signature by his Head of Institution or an Officer who is authorized by him and other applicants should 
get attested their signatures by a principal of a Government School, Grama Niladhari in the division, a 
Justice of Peace, a Commissioner for Oaths, a Notary Public, a Commissioned Officer in three Forces, 
a Staff Grade Officer in the Public or Provincial Public Service, who has drawn an annual salary of                     
Rs. 240,360 or above. 
 (j) those who are already in the Public Service should forward applications through heads of their respective 
institutions. 
07. Scheme of examination : 
 (a) On pre-determination that only the applicants who have fulfilled the qualifications prescribed in the 
Gazette Notification have applied for the examination, the Commissioner General of Examinations will 
issue admission cards to applicants who are within the age limits specified in the notification and who 
have forwarded duly completed applications with the language in which she/he intends to sit for the 
examination, city and the posts applied for signature of the applicant and attestation of the signature, if 
applicable certificate of the Head of Institution and the receipt obtained on payment of the examination 
fee on or before the closing date of applications. a candidate must produce his/her attested admission card 
to the supervisor of the examination hall. a candidate who fails to produce his/her admission card will not 
be permitted to sit for the examination. issuance of an admission card to an applicant does not necessarily 
mean that he/she has the requisite qualification to sit for the examination. 
 (b) department of Examinations of Sri Lanka will published a notice in News Papers  immediately after 
issuing admission cards to the applicants. any applicants who has not received  his/ her admission card 
02  or 03 days after publishing the notice in News Papers, should notify to the organization and foreign 
Examinations Branch of the Department of Examinations stated in this Notification. It is informed to 
notify to the organization and foreign Examinations Branch of the department of Examinations to that 
effect indicating the name of examination applied for, your name and address and Nic number and 
keeping the copy of application which is retained by you, copy of the receipt obtained on payment of 
examination fee and copy of the receipt issued when application was registered by the the post in hand 
and case of an applicant living outside colombo. to obtain a copy of the admission card by fax, it would 
be more productive to notify to the  organization and foreign Examinations Branch of the department of 
Examination by faxing a request including your above information and a fax number.
 (c) t ravelling expenses or any other allowance will not be paid to candidates in respect of appearing in this 
examination.
 (d) Indentification of the candidates. – a candidate will be required to prove his/her indentity at the 
examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor of each subject he/she offers. for this purpose 
following document will only be expected : 
 (i) National identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons.
 (ii) a  valid passport
  (e) Syllabus :
 (i) intelligence test - (time - 01 hour , total marks - 100)
  this paper consists of 50 multiple choices and  short answers type questions so as to make an 
assessment of the candidate's, power of logical reasoning, analysis and ability to draw sound 
inference. all questions should be answered. 
 (ii) Subject Related Knowledge Paper (time 02 hours. total marks  - 100)
  this Paper consists of structured type questions to examine the candidate's subject knowledge.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2017
646
 Post  Syllabus of Subject Related Question Paper
 01 agricultural instructor contribution of agriculture to the economic development of Sri Lanka/ 
Knowledge in climatic Zones of Sri Lanka/ Soil and plant Nutririon / Rice 
Production/ Production of other field crops/ Vegetables Production/ Fruit 
Production/ crop protection/ importance of soil conservation and various soil 
conservation method/ irrigation and water management/ farm mechanization/
 02 Research assistant  apiculture/ floriculture and landscaping/ Protected crop cultivation/animal 
husbandry/ agricultural extension/ tissue culture/ Plant quarantine/ Plant 
conservation and its importance/ Bio technology/ Seed production/ agricultural 
development.
 
 (f) Medium of examination.– this examination will be conducted in Sinhala, tamil and English Languages. 
candidates must answer all the papers of the examination only in one language. the language preferred 
in the application will not be allowed to change later.
 (g) the commissioner General of examinations will allow to sit for this competitive Examination to all 
applicants who have  paid the emanation fee and forwarded applications to reach on or before the dates 
specified in this notification on  predetermination that the applications have  only been sent by those 
who have fulfilled the requirements prescribed in this  Gazette Notification. Issuance of admission 
card does not necessarily mean that he/she has the requisite qualifications to  sit for the examination. 
if  apply for two posts given in the (e) above, only one application should be forwarded including  
all posts applied for all candidates are subject to the rules imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations in connection with this examination. a candidate who violates any of these rules is liable 
to a punishment at the discretion of the commissioner General Examinations.
 (h) Place  and Date of examination .– this Examination will be conducted by the commissioner General 
of Examinations at Colombo and Kandy in June, 2017. In case of receiving insufficient number of 
applications, the examination will only be held in colombo. (the examination center given in the 
application will not be allowed to change later)
   examination Center Code No.
   colombo 01
   Kandy 02
08. Methods of Recruitment :-
 (i) Recruitments will be considered on the merit list prepared according to aggregate of marks of the 
applicants selected from those who  have secured 40% or more marks in each question paper.
 (ii) The qualification of the applicants will  be scrutinized by a board of  Interview appointed by the Director 
General of agriculture based on the merit of marks of the examination. Subsequently those who have 
fulfilled the requirements will be  selected for the posts. (Marks will not be awarded at the interview)
 (iii) the number of applicants to be called for the interview will be decided by the director General of 
agriculture. 
 (iv) If it is revealed at the interview that a candidate has not fulfilled the qualifications as at the closing of 
applications, his/her candidature will be cancelled. 
 (v) if a candidate will pass the examination appearing in it without completing the qualifications prescribed 
in this Gazette Notification as at the closing date of applications he/she will not be considered for the 
interview and his/her application will be rejected without any notice. 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2017
647
 (vi) (a) if a candidate is found to be ineligible to sit for this examination in accordance with regulations 
applicable to the examination his/her candature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to 
during or after the examination. 
  (b) if any of the particulars furnished by a candidate will be found to be false later or if he/she will 
fully suppressed any material facts he/she will not be further considered to offer an appointment 
and an appointment offered to him/her on the result of this examination will be lible to be 
revoked or he/she will be liable for dismissal from the public service. 
 (vii) Issuance of results.– a list of candidates who have secured 40% or more marks in each subject will be 
provided to the Board of interview as notified by the Director General of Agriculture. Results may be 
posted to all applicants, personaly or pubilshed in the website www.results.exams.gov.lk. 
09. Any matter not provided for in this notification will be decided by the "Appointing Authority" all candidates 
are bound to act in conformity with the General Rules of Examinations stipulated in this Gazette. 
10. In the event of any inconsistency among notification publshed in all three languages of this Examination 
Notification "the Sinhala" notification shall prevail. 
 dr. R. R. a. 
WiJekOOn, 
 director General of agriculture. 
at the department of agriculture, 
Peradeniya, 
24th march, 2017. 
 (For office use only)
SPEcimEN aPPLicatioN foRm 
aPPliCatiOn fOr OPen/limited COmPetitive examinatiOn fOr reCruitment tO POsts in the grade iii Of the sri lanka 
teChnOlOgiCal serviCe in the dePartment Of agriCulture - 2017 
Examination applied for  - open - 1
  Limited - 2 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
medium of examination - Sinahala - 02 
  t amil - 03
  English - 04 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Examination center - colombo  - 01 
  Kandy - 02 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Post applied for    Post  Number of the Post
 * agriculture instructor  - 01 1 
 * Research assistant - 02 2
     (indicate the relevant number in the cage) 
01. Name : 
  1.1 Full Name :–––––––––––.
   (in English capital letters)
   eg. : hERath  mUdiyaNSELaGE  SamaN  KUmaRa  GUNaWaRdhaNa

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2017
648
  1.2 Name indicating the last name first and initials of other names at the end  :–––––––––––.
   (in English capital letters)
   (eg. : GUNa WaRdhaNa, h. m. S. K.)
  1.3 Full Name  :–––––––––––.
   (in Sinhala/tamil)
  1.4 National Identity Card Number :
  1.5 Telephone No. : 
02. Permanent Address :
  2.1 In English Capital Letters  :–––––––––––.
  2.2 In Sinhala/Tamil  :–––––––––––.
  2.3 Address to which the admission should be sent  :–––––––––––.
   (in English capital Letters)
  2.4 District of permanent residence  :–––––––––––.
  2.5 divisional Secreta riat Division  :–––––––––––.
03. Gender :  Female 1
    male 0   (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
04.  4.1 Date of Birth :  Year :  Month :  Date :
  4.2 Age as at the closing date of applications (21.04.2017) :
   Years : Months : Days  :
  4.3 Marital Status :  Unmarried - 1
    married - 2   (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
05. Educational Qualifications (With the medium) : 
  (a) G. c. E. (o/L) 
   1st Sitting 2nd Sitting
  (i) Year and Month :..................... Year and Month :.....................
  (ii) Index Number :..................... Index Number :.....................
  (iii) Medium :..................... Medium :.....................
  (iv) Results : Results : 
Subject Pass Subject Pass
1 1
2 2
3 3
4 4
5 5
6 6
7 7
8 8
9 9
10 10

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2017
649
 (b) G. C. E. (A/L) : 
    (i) Year and Month :.....................
    (ii) Index Number :.....................
    (iii) Medium :.....................
    (iv) Results : 
Subject Pass
1
2
3
4
06. Professional Qualifications : 
Name of the 
Diploma
Name of the Institution 
awarded the Diploma
Year Passed Medium Index No. Date of 
Validity
07. Experience :–––––––––––.
 (only for limited applicants)
  7.1 Present Post :–––––––––––.
  7.2 Date of appointment to the above post :–––––––––––.
  7.3 Date of confirmation in the above post :–––––––––––.
  7.4 Period of permanent and pensionable Service :–––––––––––.
  7.5 have all the salary increments been earned during the period of 05 years immediately preceding as at 21.04.2017 
:–––––––––––.
08. The Bank to which the examination fee was paid : 
  8.1 Date of payment :–––––––––––.
  8.2 No. of the receipt :–––––––––––.
  8.3 Amount :–––––––––––.
Please affix the receipt obtained on payment of examination fee so as to be unglued 
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt with you)
09. I agree to abide by the conditions of this examination :–––––––––––.
10. Declaration of the Applicant :
i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. i am also aware 
that, if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified before selection 
or to dismissal without any compensation of such detection is made after appointment. further, i hereby declare that i am 
subject to the rules imposed in respect of this examination and decisions taken in respect of releasing the results by the 
commissioner General of Examinations. i also certify that only one application is submitted for the posts applied by me. 
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
Date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2017
650
11. Attestation of the signature of the applicant : 
i hereby certify that the applicant mr./mrs./miss ...................................... who submits this application is known 
to me personally and that he/she place his/her signature in my presence on ................................. and he/she has paid the 
prescribed examination fee and affixed the receipt. 
  –––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of attester. 
Date :–––––––––––.
Full Name of Attester :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(Please prove by the Official Seal)
12. Those who are already in the Public/Provincial Service (strike off the words inapplicable) :
I hereby certify that the above applicant has/has not fulfilled the all requisite qualifications to appear in this 
examination as per this Gazette Notification and he/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and the receipt is affixed 
and he/she can/can't be released from his/her present post in this department if he/she is selected.
 
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature and designation of head of the department. 
  (Official Seal)
03–1060
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.