

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.02.2021
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2214$54 - 2021 fmnrjdß ui 10 jeks nodod - 2021'02'10
No. 2214/54  -  WEDNESDAY ,  FEBRUARY  10,  2021
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A- PG 5315 — 375  (2021/02)
MINISTRY  OF  TOURISM
Notice to the General Public
National Civil Aviation Policy
I, Prasanna Ranatunga, as the Minister of Tourism, do hereby publish the National Civil Aviation Policy as approved by the
Cabinet of Ministers on 06th March, 2019 prepared under the responsibilities vested on me by the Section 4 (a) of the Civil
Aviation Act No. 14 of 2010 for the information of the General Public.
P
RASANNA RANATUNGA,
Minister of Tourism.
29th January 2021,
Ministry of Tourism,
Colombo 01.
NATIONAL  CIVIL  A VIATION   POLICY   SRI   LANKA
1. Executive Summary
The policy paper, ‘National Civil Aviation Policy for Sri Lanka’ was developed in consultation with most of the
stakeholders in the industry, both public and private. The consultation process was inclusive and transparent so that
stakeholders have full ownership of the policy.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.02.2021
2A
The policy proposed in this document highlights the future direction and positioning of Sri Lanka as a leading
aviation and transport hub in the South Asian region. The overarching objective of the policy is to transform the
country into a superior air service provider while connecting it to the wider world aviation network.
The National Civil Aviation Policy identifies that air transport is a force for good economic and social development
and the role of regulatory oversight is key to quality assurance safeguards that ensure adherence to national
legislation and global standards. The policy recognize the need for different levels of development and the process
of continuous improvement with multi-level of standards based on those of the ICAO standards as the minimum.
Developing guidance, sharing best practices and working in collaboration with industry partners on efficient use of
infrastructure is important to achieve the policy objectives. It paves ways for the mobilization of resources to
overcome constraints and impediments for the partnerships and financing for a sustainable aviation future.
The Policy identifies that timely modernizing  Air Traffic Management (ATM) and upgrading and expansion of airport
infrastructure are critical to cater for growth in traffic and to ensure efficient use of airspace and airports. Use of
modern technology is key for modernization. Following of the ICAO Aviation System Block Upgrade principles will be
a catalyst in that regard. Although investing in ATM and airport infrastructure from a business perspective is not
always well articulated, proceeds thereof are beneficial to the airport users and the national economy rather than to
the investor (Air Navigation Service Provider - ANSP) himself. ATM and airport investments have longer lead-time
requiring long-term planning and stability and in this respect the Policy underscores that ANSP shall operate as
normal businesses within performance-driven framework based on solid business ethics encouraging stable, long
term investments.
The policy highlights that Flexible Airspace Access solutions, including impact assessments, should be collaborative
and respectful of the needs of all air transport stakeholders.
It also highlights the need for encouraging internship-style programs in conjunction with conventional aviation
training centers to develop much needed next generation of aviation professionals. Industry could provide more
realistic experience in partnership with both governmental and non-governmental education centres so as to ensure
that future needs of aviation professionals would be adequately be made available in order for the unimpeded growth
of the sector.
The policy identifies that the development of aerodromes in underserved or remote regions creates employment and
economic activity resulting in greater connectivity and social integration to national economy.
It is also important that revenues generated from charges levied on aviation activities to be more dedicated to funding
key components of a sustainable aviation system.
Holistic view of infrastructure planning is key and it is necessary to take into account unique needs of all users in
order to benefit comprehensively from wider range of aviation activity in localities around the country.
2. Acknowledgements
The Government of Sri Lanka (GoSL) would like to thank all stakeholders for their valuable input and active participa-
tion in the discussion sessions held in connection with this policy.
The GoSL is grateful to the final drafting committee consisting of The Ministry of Transport & Civil Aviation, Civil
Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka (CAASL), Airport & Aviation Services (Sri Lanka) Limited (AASL), Attorney General’s
Department, SriLankan Airlines, Sri Lanka Air Force, Board of Airline Representatives (BAR), Sri Lanka Association
of Airline Representatives (SLAAR) and Domestic Aviation Representatives for their fullest cooperation in finalizing
the policy paper.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.02.2021
3A
3. Introduction
3.1 The civil aviation industry is of national strategic importance to Sri Lanka as the country depends on air
transport to link people valued cargo with the rest of the world. More importantly, civil aviation is a critical
element in the country’s economy. A safe, secure, efficient, regular and environmentally responsive aviation
industry reinforces a range of trade, commerce, tourism and investment activities that would contribute
significantly to our economic prosperity.
3.2 With the right policy initiatives, civil aviation can be the wheel that spins out economic opportunities by
expanding the existing markets, opening new markets, driving productivity and improving competitiveness.
3.3 Civil Aviation’s contribution to the Sri Lankan economy is undisputed, it adds a total of 297,500 jobs and USD
3 billion to Sri Lanka’s GDP in 2015. Based on a recent IATA commissioned study that entails the Value of
Aviation for Sri Lanka, this can potentially grow to 673,100 jobs and USD 7 billion to Sri Lanka’s GDP in the year
2035.
3.4 Sri Lanka’s Civil Aviation Sector has shown an average growth in passenger traffic, cargo movement, aircraft
handling by 5.5%, 8.0 % and 7.7 % respectively during 2012-15. In 2015, nearly 8.5 million passengers and
215,032 metric tonnes (MT) of cargo were transported by air.
3.5 Further, the travel and tourism sector, substantially aided by the aviation sector, is a significant contributor to
the Sri Lankan economy.  In 2015, the sector contributed LKR 1,107.1 billion to Sri Lankan GDP (10.6% of total
GDP), which is forecast to rise by approximately by 6.3% per year,  and to around LKR 2,128.4 billion in 2026.
The broader travel and tourism sector also supported approximately 793,000 total jobs (direct and indirect jobs)
in Sri Lanka in 2015 (9.7% of total employment), which is forecast to increase by roughly 1.7% per year, and to
around 949,000 jobs in 2026 (11.2% of total employment).
3.6 Future of Civil Aviation in Sri Lanka
* As a result of the development initiatives of the GoSL, especially in the tourism sector, passenger traffic
(arrivals & departures) has been estimated to be about 21 million by 2035 from the present figure of 8.5
million
1 in Sri Lanka.
* Domestic air travel demand is predicted to increase to 337,000 passengers in 2035 2 from the current
number of 137,000 persons. These numbers may even be higher with the country’s tourism focus being
more tuned towards upmarket tourists, who demand for safe, expeditious and comfortable travel.
* The industrial and trade and commerce policies of the GoSL aim to expand domestic production and
market structure to gain maximum advantages from trade and commerce.
3.7 Prospects for Sri Lanka in the Asia Pacific Region and Globally
o The world’s busiest international/regional air routes are located in the Asia Pacific region. Air traffic
growth within the next 20 years will be driven by the Asia Pacific region. (36%
3 of global air traffic would
be from the Asia-Pacific region by 2034 compared to 21% from Europe)
o Asia Pacific region is home to around 56% of the world’s population with a rapidly expanding middle
class. This region generates 31% of global GDP.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.02.2021
4A
o The global aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul industry (MRO) is estimated to grow to US $ 95
billion in 2024 from the present value of US $ 64 billion4. The Asia Pacific MRO market is expected to
nearly double to approx. $32.2 billion by 2025. There will be a significant contribution from China and
India to this growth with increased numbers of aircraft in operation. Meanwhile, the mega MRO hubs in
the region such as Singapore, Hong Kong and China and Malaysia may reach saturation point.
o As global economies expand, airlines will take delivery of tens of thousands of new commercial jetliners.
To meet this tremendous growth, Boeing, in its 2016 Pilot and Technician Outlook, projects a demand for
nearly 1.5 million pilots and technicians over the next 20 years (2016 – 2035)
5. The largest projected
growth is in the Asia-Pacific region with 40% 6 of the global need coming from the region due to the
growth of the single-aisle market, driven by low-cost carriers.
3.8 Sri Lanka has the potential to leverage the advantages from the regional and global aviation markets and
transform its aviation sector into a catalyst for economic growth, including new employment. Therefore, it is
vital for GoSL to support and encourage the development of the aviation industry in order to contribute to the
economic prosperity of the country.
3.9 The objective of National Civil Aviation Policy is to aactively pursue the continuous liberalization of  air
transport industry to the benefit of all stakeholders and the economy at large, whilst ensuring the highest level
of safety and security and the principle of fair and equal opportunity for all stakeholders. The policy outlined
below lays out the steps that need to be taken in order to position Sri Lanka as a leading aviation and transport
hub in the South Asian region.
4. Key Elements of the Policy
4.1 The National Civil Aviation Policy is based on the premise that airspace above Sri Lanka is a valued national
asset which has a vast potential for economic development and social integration.
4.2 The key elements of the Civil Aviation Policy are aligned accordingly to tap the full potential of the country’s
airspace, giving optimum freedom for its use for peaceful purposes that includes freedoms of the air recognized
by the Chicago Convention (1944) as well as commercial, recreational, and educational activities with due
regard to national security and GoSL’s obligation under applicable international conventions for aviation
safety,  security,   efficiency, regularity of civil aviation and its environmental concerns.
4.3 The key elements of the policy enumerated below are aimed at laying a sound foundation for elevation of Sri
Lanka’s position as a leading aviation and transport hub in the South Asian region.
4.4 Central to the envisaged creation of Sri Lanka as a leading aviation hub in the region is the need for capacity-
unconstrained and efficient international airports and strong home based airlines. Accordingly, the designated
national airline (s) and the main international airport (BIA), will be mainstreamed to overall economic development
of Sri Lanka.
1 Options study for Private Sector Participation for the Development of the Domestic Airport Sector in Sri Lanka, World Bank,2016
2 Options study for Private Sector Participation for the Development of the Domestic Airport Sector in Sri Lanka, World Bank,2016
3 Asia Pacific Aviation Competitive Challenges & Growth Dynamics, Andrew Herdman, Director General, Association of Asia Pacific
Airline
4 ICF MRO Market Forecast & Trends – Asia Pacific March 9-10, 2016 Airline E&M: China & East Asia
5 Boeing (NYSE: BA), “Boeing Forecasts Nearly 1.5 Million Pilots and Technicians Needed by 2035”, accessed 20 th October 2016,
http://boeing.mediaroom.com/2016-07-25-Boeing-Forecasts-Nearly-1-5-Million-Pilots-and-T echnicians-Needed-by-2035.
6 Boeing (NYSE: BA), “Extraordinary demand for pilots, technicians, and cabin crew”, accessed 20 th October 2016, http://www.boeing.com/
commercial/market/long-term-market/pilot-and-technician-outlook/.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.02.2021
5A
4.5 Implementation strategy of the Policy will focus amongst other aviation activities, on establishment and operation
of world-class Aircraft Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) facilities for all modern commercial aircraft
types, state-of-the-art aviation training facilities, aerospace engineering services and manufacturing industries
as well as enterprises engaged in aviation commerce (insurance companies, aircraft brokers etc) which will be
promoted through legislation, where necessary, simplification of rules and procedures and by providing the
required infrastructure facilities and services.
5. International Air Transportation
5.1 Principles on accessibility: GoSL is committed to the promotion of international air services in order to provide
opportunities for creation of employment, trade and the development of trade, commerce and investment and
tourism in particular. Towards the realization of this goal, the GoSL will commit to fair competitiveness and equal
and open access in entering into air services arrangements with other States on the basis of reciprocity with a
view to harnessing the economic, trade, commerce, tourism, religious and social benefits that would flow from
the opening of new international aviation markets and/or expanding existing ones resulting in wider accessibility
and connectivity.
5.2 Exchange of traffic rights: GoSL will be open and flexible in the exchange of commercial traffic rights with
bilateral or multilateral partner States underscoring reciprocal and apparent benefits to Sri Lanka. Accordingly,
applicable considerations for the grant of new traffic rights or enhancement of existing ones would include
inter alia: –
(a) Potential for accessing new tourist markets and/or expanding existing international aviation markets that
generate tourist/business traffic to Sri Lanka;
(b) Creation of new city pairs with which Sri Lanka has no existing direct air links;
(c) Promotion of BIA as a hub airport whilst developing other local airports based on market demand;
(d) Attracting and/or retention of reputed international carriers to Sri Lanka;
(e) Reciprocal enhancement of traffic rights and/or commercial opportunities for carriers registered in Sri
Lanka;
(f) Promotion of international aviation system based on competition among airlines in the marketplace with
minimum government interference and economic regulation
(g) Expansion of international air service opportunities recognising that efficient and competitive international
air services would enhance trade, customer care, and economic growth;
(h) Making it possible for airlines to offer the travelling public and shippers a variety of service options
[at the lowest prices that are not discriminatory which do not construe the misuse of a dominant position],
and wishing to encourage individual airlines to develop and implement innovative and competitive
prices; and
(i) Ensuring the highest degree of safety and security in international and domestic air services whilst being
gravely concerned and mindful of the acts or threats that may jeopardize the safety of aircraft and
persons and property on board which may adversely affect the operation of air services, thus undermining
public confidence in the safety of civil aviation
5.3 Network Opportunities: Every effort will be made to negotiate expanded network opportunities and improve
market access for designated carriers of Sri Lanka to international aviation markets in accordance with the
commitment of such carriers to the country and their future plans

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.02.2021
6A
5.4 Route Capacity: Traffic capacity / frequency available to Sri Lanka’s designated airlines engaged in international
air transportation in terms of the applicable Air Services Agreements will be maintained well ahead of foreseeable
demand to enable the respective airlines to plan for the long term growth of Sri Lanka’s aviation market.
5.5 Designation of local airlines for international operations: Designation of national airlines to participate in the
operation of international passenger and/or cargo services under the existing and/or future Air Services
Agreements shall be subject to such airlines meeting the applicable legal, technical, operational, administrative
and environmental requirements that conform to applicable national legislation and international standards.
5.6 Traffic Rights for local airlines: A fair and transparent mechanism will be maintained for the allocation of
available or potential traffic rights and slot allocation amongst local airlines for the operation of international
passenger air services.
5.7 Airlines’ Principle Place of Business: The GoSL will promote the Principal Place of Business (PPB) standards
which is advocated by the ICAO, in the negotiation of new Air Services Agreements. The GoSL proposes to its
existing Bilateral Air Service Partners to renegotiate the substantial ownership clauses in existing Air Services
Agreements according to the PPB standards.
5.8 Passenger Charter operations: Charter operations by both local and foreign airlines will be encouraged with
relaxed financial regulations but with no compromise in  safety, security and environmental considerations
which will be maintained in accordance with applicable guidelines and regulations of the Civil Aviation Authority
of Sri Lanka (CAASL).
5.9 Foreign Airline Representations in Sri Lanka: Foreign airlines operating into and out of Sri Lanka will be
permitted to operate to Sri Lanka either through a locally registered General Sales Agent or by the airline
incorporating a limited liability company in Sri Lanka or operate directly with an irrevocable bank guarantee
made out from a bank in Sri Lanka drawn in favour of the CAASL, of which the quantum is determined by them.
5.10 Ground handling: Subject to airport space safety, and security constraints, and also environmental concerns,
airlines shall have the freedom to self-handle where permitted or to select from available Ground Handling
service providers. The GoSL will ensure that the Ground Handling Services at International Airports are provided
on competitive pricing.
5.11 Code Share Agreements (CSA) A Code-Share Agreement between two airlines allows one airline (‘Marketing
airline’) to sell seats on a flight operated by another airline (‘Administrating airline’), with the airline code and
flight number of the marketing airline. This helps in seamless connectivity for passenger. In this regard, the
Policy will be as follows:
a. Domestic Code-share Points within the country shall be liberalised within the framework of the Air
Services Agreement (ASA).
b. Sri Lanka registered carriers will be free to enter into domestic code-share agreements with foreign
carriers to any point in Sri Lanka available under the respective ASA.
c. For the designated carriers of Sri Lanka, international code-share arrangements with foreign carriers will
be liberalized as per the provisions relating to code-share arrangements in the ASA with notice to CAASL
within 30 days prior to the commencement of codeshare operations.
5.12 Airlines’ Expatriate Staff: Airlines will be permitted to employ expatriate management/technical personnel based
on sufficient justification and in accordance with applicable guidelines. In any event, a foreign airline may have
two expatriate personnel  in the commercial area, and two in technical areas. Any additional expatriate personnel
may be employed subject to approval of the Director General of the CAASL.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.02.2021
7A
5.13 Use of Cabotage rights:GoSL will allow foreign airlines operating into and out of Sri Lanka to operate into more
than one international airports in Sri Lanka subject to commercial traffic rights between such international
airports.
5.14 Traf fic Rights at Mattala Rajapakse International Airports (MRIA)
GoSL will allow designated foreign airlines to exercise all nine Freedoms of the Air at MRIA in respect of carriage
of passengers and freight, without any restriction.
6. Custom Duties
6.1 Exemption from Custom Duty: The GoSL will on the basis of reciprocity exempt a designated airline of a foreign
State from Customs and Excise Duty, inspection fees and other national levies and charges (which are outside
the cost of handling charges upon  arrival), on aircraft, fuel, lubricating oils, consumable technical supplies,
spare parts including engines, regular aircraft equipment, aircraft stores and other items such as printed ticket
stock, air waybills, any printed material which bears the insignia of the respective airline printed thereon and
usual publicity material distributed free of charge by that designated airline which are intended for use or used
solely in connection with the operation the respective air service or servicing of aircraft of the designated
airline.
6.2 The exemptions granted by the foregoing article will  usually apply to the items that are
(a) introduced into Sri Lanka by or on behalf of the designated airline of the foreign State.
(b) retained on board aircraft of the designated airline of foreign State upon arrival in or leaving the territory
of Sri Lanka;
(c) taken on board aircraft of the designated airline of foreign State within Sri Lanka  and intended for use in
operating the agreed services under respective Air Services Agreement; whether or not such items are
used or consumed wholly within Sri Lanka, provided the ownership of such items is not transferred
within Sri Lanka.
7. Taxation applicable to International Airlines
If reciprocal provisions are available in the applicable Air Services Agreements with a foreign State for the
granting of similar rights and facilities for airlines registered in Sri Lanka; the following taxation policies will be
applicable.
7.1 Profits or income: Profits or income from the operation of aircraft in international traffic derived by an airline of
a foreign State including participation in inter-airline commercial agreements or joint business ventures, will be
exempt from any tax on profits or income imposed by the GoSL;
7.2 Capital and Assets: Capital and assets of an airline of foreign State relating to the operation of aircraft in
international services will be exempt from all taxes on capital and assets imposed by the  GoSL ;
7.3 Gains: Gains from the alienation of aircraft operated in international services and movable property pertaining
to the operation of such aircraft which are received by an airline of foreign State will be exempt from any tax on
gains imposed by GoSL; and
7.4 V AT: Relief from Value Added Tax or similar indirect taxes on goods and services supplied to the airline
designated by the foreign State and used for the purposes of its peration of international air services will be
granted.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.02.2021
8A
8. Domestic Air Services
8.1 Investment in domestic airlines: The GoSL supports the continuous development of a vibrant domestic aviation
industry that would deliver economic and social benefits to the country. To this end, private sector investment
in domestic airlines as well as aerodromes and other aviation facilities and services will be encouraged.
8.2 Use of domestic aerodromes: All domestic aerodromes except aerodromes exclusively used by military, will be
maintained in accordance with the applicable civil aviation standards to promote domestic aviation. At aerodromes
where military is present, segregation of space, facilities and services will be made enabling unimpeded application
of civil aviation requirements for the civil aviation operations.
8.3 Construction of new aerodromes: The construction of new domestic aerodromes will be pursued at locations
based on tourism, trade, investment and commerce, industrial and religious centres. This will include construction
of heliports and helipads and private sector participation in this respect is encouraged.
8.4 Water Aerodromes: The use of inland water bodies as water aerodromes will be encouraged and facilitated in
consultation with relevant authorities in charge of such water bodies without prejudice to their primary use.
Power to regulate all matters, inclusive of the charges levied at domestic airports, including water aerodromes
and heliports/helipads used for civil aviation operations, will be vested with the CAASL.
8.5 Regulation of domestic aerodromes: Regulation of all matters inclusive of determination of charges at domestic
airports used for civil aviation which includes water aerodromes and heliports/helipads will be vested in the
CAASL.
8.6 Multi-modalism: In the process of the development of airports, the need for integrating facilities with other
modes of transport such as rail, road and sea (multi- modal transport), to provide seamless travel will be
pursued.
8.7 Helicopter landing sites: Construction of helicopter landing pads at selected locations in major cities and by the
side of highways and expressways will be promoted, to facilitate efficient transfers including medical evacuation.
8.8 Private aerodromes: Construction of private airstrips, heliports and helipads will be permitted and encouraged
subject to satisfying the applicable requirements published by the CAASL.
9. Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul Organizations (MRO)
The GoSL will take following measures in respect of the establishment and operation of MRO in Sri Lanka.
(a) The tools and tool-kits used by the MRO will be exempted from Customs Duty. The exemption shall be
given on the basis of the certification of the list of tools and tool kits certified by Quality Managers of
aircraft maintenance organisations who have been approved by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation
(DGCA).
(b) The requirements of MRO such as parts, or orders from their client airlines will be facilitated through a
similar process as in the case of tool kits on the basis of one-time approval by DGCA based on the
certification by an approved Quality Managers.
(c) To promote economies-of-scale, all parts imported for aircraft maintenance, repair or overhaul would be
freed from duty.
(d) Approval would be granted for MRO to import of unserviceable parts including aircraft components like
engines and landing gears by MROs in advance of the commencement of the planned work.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.02.2021
9A
(e) Foreign aircraft brought to Sri Lanka for MRO work would be allowed to stay for the entire period of
maintenance or up to 12 months, whichever is lesser, provided it undertakes no commercial flights during
that period. The aircraft may, however, carry passengers and/or cargo on their arrival and departure from
Sri Lanka after maintenance /repair work.
(f) V AT on MRO activities will be zero rated.
(g) Adequate land at concessionary rates would be provided for MRO service providers at all airports where
potential for such MRO services exists.
(h) Airport royalty and additional charges will not be levied on MRO service providers for a period of five
years from the date of approval of the policy.
10. General Aviation
10.1 Development and Facilitation: The GoSL recognizes the need for the development and facilitation of general
aviation, private operations and recreational aviation, including aero sports whilst maintaining the required
safety standards and security requirements to an acceptable level.
10.2 Aero clubs: Formation of rural or regional aero clubs to promote and administer recreational or educational
aviation functions, activities or events would be encouraged.
10.3 Aviation fuel: Majority of aircraft engaged in general aviation uses aviation fuel called Av Gas which is presently
imported by Ceylon Petroleum Corporation in barrels and made available to the operators. In order to reduce the
cost of aviation fuel, the private operators will be permitted to import aviation fuel directly from the suppliers,
subject to compliance with the quality control requirements.
10.4 Recreational Aviation: Recreational aviation including aero-sports in the country will be allowed with due
regard to national security and safety. Operation of hot air balloons, gliders, para-gliders and ultra-light aircraft,
etc. would be permitted subject to compliance with the code of conduct administrated by the CAASL.
10.5 Operation of Drones / UA V /RPAS: In view of the potential threat to safety and security of person and property
and also to privacy of the members of the public, importation, assembly, manufacture, sale and operation of a
drones, UA Vs (unmanned aerial vehicle) or Remotely Piloted Aircraft Systems (RPAS) within Sri Lanka airspace
will be strictly controlled through a process of issuing  permits. In order to obtain approval for the operation of
a drone, UA V or RPAS within Sri Lanka airspace an operator must file application with the local police at least
48 hours prior to the planned operation giving details inter alia, date, time and location of the proposed
operation, Purpose, Equipment to be used, details of approval given for equipment by the CAASL, Identity and
contact information of the operator. Operation of drones shall not pose an unacceptable threat to safety,
security, privacy or the environment. Approval, once given, may be rescinded if it is determined that the
information provided is incorrect or incomplete or if circumstances have changed and a determination is made
that the planned operation is not in the community’s best interest. Local police will reserve the right to immediately
order the cessation of any operation which deems to cause hazard, interference with any equipment or activity
in the area.
11. Stakeholder Participation in Aviation Development
The GoSL recognizes that there would be stakeholders who may be affected by proposed development of
aviation related activities. Sri Lanka, being a Member State of the ICAO, GoSL would adhere to ICAO policy of
effecting levies, principles of non-discrimination, transparency and cost-relatedness.   In the determination
charges, need to minimize costs of air travel would be emphasized. Accordingly the views of stakeholders
would be sought and given due consideration.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.02.2021
10A
12. Designation of Airspace for Special Use
Airspace of defined dimensions may be identified and designated by CAASL in coordination with Ministry of
Defence for promotion of all or selected facets of the aviation spectrum, with minimum regulatory interventions.
13. Off-shore operations
Establishment of helicopter services to engage in off-shore operations to support off-shore installations and sea-
going vessels including search and rescue operations will be encouraged and facilitated giving due consideration
for national security and public safety requirements or other concerns where necessary.
14. Airport Infrastructure
14.1 Airport development: Development of airport infrastructure is essential for the growth of the civil aviation and
tourism sectors. Action will be taken to develop and maintain all existing and proposed domestic and international
airports in Sri Lanka according to required standards and the foreseeable demand based on traffic forecasts.
14.2 Second Runway at Bandaranaike International Airport: A parallel runway which is well spaced with the existing
runway at Bandaranaike International Airport will be constructed at an appropriate location paving way for
independent and simultaneous operations of both runways aiming at enhancing both handling capacity,
efficiency and productivity of aircraft movements of the international airport.
14.3 Dialogue with local communities: In the development of new airports or renovation or expansion of existing
airports, the GoSL will ensure that systematic planning, designing, development, implementation, operation
and maintenance will take place through close coordination and proper dialogue with the Statutory Service
Provider; Airport and Aviation Services (Sri Lanka) Limited (AASL) and all other parties concerned. AASL
would maintain effective and continued dialogue between local communities, aviation stakeholders and airport
developers with AASL will be maintained during infrastructure development.
14.4 Regional airports: The GoSL will work towards setting up and operating four (4) regional airports covering the
North, East, South and West of Sri Lanka with a view to improving connectivity both internally and externally.
14.5 Segregation of space: Other than at domestic airports which are exclusively used by Sri Lanka Air Force for
security reasons, all domestic airports shall be made available for joint civil/military use with clear segregation
of civil and military activities.  In this context, areas for civil and SLAF operations would be clearly separated
and demarcated. Allocating of land in the civil area, on long-term lease, for prospective investors would be
optional for the purpose of setting up and operation of civil aviation infrastructure. In all civil/military joint
airports, civil standards will be applied and maintained.
14.6 Domestic terminal: Domestic terminal facilities would be made available in international airports to accommodate
passenger transfers to and from domestic airports in the country to strengthen and ensure effective domestic
networks.
14.7 Low cost terminals: The GoSL recognize the value of the economic contribution made by the low-cost carriers,
who operate on the principle of minimizing the cost whilst maximizing the productivity and efficiency. In order
to enable the business model of low cost airlines, the GoSL will facilitate / encourage the construction of low
cost terminals at international airports.
15. Airport Master Plan
15.1 All airports engaged in civil aviation operations will have a Master Plan which would  outline the development
strategies and options for its optimum use including the plans for abutting lands. Airport  master  plans  are
aligned  with traffic  forecasts  to develop  in phases,  in order  to balance  capacity  and demand. A business

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.02.2021
11A
case with capital costs, timeframes,   and other consideration   such as airspace capacity and environmental
impacts are considered   from an early stage.   A work stream partner requirements  will also be included.
15.2 Therefore, future infrastructure needs for airports will be addressed through properly coordinated and integrated
Airport Master Plans recognizing the importance of airports as a key element of the national economic
infrastructure.
16. Air Cargo Trans-shipment
16.1 Air Sea Cargo: The air cargo industry is largely dependent on trans-shipment and it is necessary to promote
cargo processing and trans-shipment of air cargo. Therefore, the development of air cargo handling facilities
and storage capabilities will be planned and integrated with the handling of sea cargo in coordination with Ports
Authorities and other concerned stakeholders such as Sri Lanka Customs and Freight Forwarding Agents.
16.2 Regulated Agents: The concept of Regulated Cargo Agent will be introduced so that cargo containerized at a
Regulated Cargo Facility will no longer be subjected to security checks at the airports, minimizing the ground
delays in handling them at the airports.  Freight Forwarders and Cargo Agents who would be willing to make use
of this facility will be brought under regulatory system by issuing them with a License by the CAASL.
16.3 Global Supply Chain: The focus will be given to the promotion of value addition of air cargo trans-shipment
which is a part of the global supply chain. Cargo charter carriers will also be encouraged to operate with the
approval of the CAASL.
17. Land Use Planning
17.1 Effective use of airspace: Land use planning is essential to optimize the use of limited land resources surrounding
the aerodromes/ water aerodromes / heliports. Therefore, particular emphasis will be placed on demand and
future passenger and cargo growth forecasts. Proper land use planning will be carried out for effective use of
such airport infrastructure and its environs.
17.2 Obstacle Limiting Areas and Surfaces: Airspace associated with airports including the certified government
controlled water aerodromes and heliports will be preserved by establishing an effective enforcement of obstacle
limiting areas and surfaces (zoning requirements) according to applicable international safety standards laid
down by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO).
17.3 Private water aerodromes / heliports: With regard to water aerodromes or heliports owned or operated by
private parties, the responsibility of preserving the required Obstacle Limiting Areas and Surfaces shall rest
with the respective owner or operator of the water body or heliport, in liaison with the owners of land abutting
the facility. In the event, the requirements of Obstacle Limiting Surfaces are infringed by surrounding
constructions after certification of an aerodrome, the validity of aerodrome certificate or heliport certificate will
become null and void.
18. Air Space Management
18.1 Airspace: Recognizing that Sri Lanka’s airspace is an invaluable public asset which has immense potential for
socio economic growth, the effective and efficient management and use of air space for civil aviation purposes
will be ensured with due regard to national security and safety.
18.2 Flexible use of airspace: The GoSL will adopt flexible use of airspace depending on the operational needs
instead of curtailing civil use of airspace permanently. Accordingly, currently established permanent restricted
areas and prohibited areas will be done away with and new areas will be established for aviation subject to
national security requirements.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.02.2021
12A
18.3 Linkage with Global Air Navigation Plan: The GoSL supports the implementation of international best practices
in Air Traffic Management within Sri Lanka’s airspace to provide a safe and efficient service, in line with the
Global Air Navigation Plan of the ICAO which is supplemented by Aviation System Block Upgrade (ASBU).
This will be achieved by developing a coordinated national air traffic management programme with the CAASL,
AASL, designated national airlines and SLAF, having due regard to the safety of the traveling public, optimization
of economic gain for the country and national defence requirements. GoSL will support and facilitate flight
operations on user defined trajectories in keeping with international standards and applicable regional air
navigation plans and commitments. The ICAO Global / Regional Air Navigation Plan will be used as the basis
for planning, designing, equipping and managing Sri Lanka’s airspace. Accordingly, Sri Lanka’s airspace will be
managed keeping pace with ICAO advocated policy of Aviation System Block Upgrade (ASBU), which expands
for a time horizon of 20 years effective 2008.
18.4 Provision of Air Traffic Control Service: Provision of Air Traffic Control Service at all airports where civil flights
operate to, shall be made by Air Traffic Controllers holding appropriate Air Traffic Control (ATC) Licenses
issued by Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA).
18.5 Airspace classification: Further to the concept of open airspace policy by the CAASL, a procedure is required
to be laid down to maximize the opportunities afforded by this policy within the country while recognizing the
establishment of air space classes including air corridors within the Colombo city and international  airways.
19. State Aviation Safety Programme (SASP)
19.1 An acceptable level of freedom from risk when engaged in aviation activities is the corner stone of aviation
safety. A State Aviation Safety Programme will thus be developed in line with international standards and
industry best practices and implemented as a measure of fulfilling the State’s obligation for effective safety
oversight of aviation activities of Sri Lanka.
19.2 Place Holder Organization: The designated Place Holder Organization responsible for the development,
implementation and maintenance of State Aviation Safety Programme will be the CAASL and it will be provided
with necessary human and financial resources for the effective implementation of the State Aviation Safety
Programme in commensuration with the size and complexity of the local aviation industry.
19.3 S tate Aviation Safety Coordination Platform: State Aviation Safety Coordination Platform will be established
with participation from all relevant State aviation regulatory and administrative organizations. This mechanism
may be in the form of a committee headed by the Secretary to the line Ministry. Its function is to coordinate the
implementation and subsequent administration of the SASP amongst the various State aviation regulatory and
administrative organizations to ensure that the development, periodic review and decision and policy making
pertaining to SASP activities such as safety policy, safety indicators, enforcement policy, safety data protection
& sharing, SMS regulatory requirements, internal SSP review and findings, etc are carried out in an integrated
and coordinated manner. This on-going SASP platform should involve senior management of the various
organizations, with the SASP Accountable Executive as the coordinator.
19.4 Human and Financial Resources: The CAASL’s technical competency and operational capability which is vital
for it to be an effective safety regulator will be ensured by providing requisite financial resources and necessary
administrative flexibility. This will include the authority to effect necessary organizational and structural reforms
including employment of the skilled human resources required at competitive remuneration levels to satisfy the
State’s obligations and meet the current and expanding industry demands, pertaining to aviation safety.
19.5 Technical Competence: The CAASL’s capacity to plan and act strategically in response to growth and changes
in the global aviation industry will be reinforced with adequate administrative arrangements. The CAASL’s
capabilities in development, introduction and enforcement of technical standards and regulations will be
strengthened and its capacity in supporting an expanded surveillance programme will be enhanced.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.02.2021
13A
19.6 Regulation of the industry: The mandate of CAASL to certify and regulate the operations of international and
domestic air operators and other aviation service providers such as Airport Operators, Maintenance and Repair
Organizations, Training Organizations and Aerospace Manufacturing Organizations etc, will be strengthened
to ensure that safety standards formulated by the CAASL in accordance with accepted international standards
are complied with.
19.7 Safety Management Systems (SMS) The local aviation industry is required to comply with formulated safety
standards and is encouraged to develop systems to establish, maintain and update Safety Management Systems
(SMS) in accordance with the requirements published by the CAASL.
19.8 Safety culture: The GoSL will promote the creation of a sound ‘safety culture’ amongst aviation entrepreneurs
and insist on implementation of appropriate Safety Management Systems (SMS) in the respective areas they
are engaged in, conforming to the State Safety Programme of the CAASL. A culture of self-reporting by
operators and service providers in a non-punitive environment will be encouraged affirming the obligation of
Air Operator Certificate (AOC) holders and certified operators to notify the CAASL immediately of any failures
in safety compliance.
19.9 Protection of Safety Data: Arrangement will be made in an SSP-SMS environment, the States regulatory
enforcement policy and procedures (in an SSP-SMS environment) to ensure that no information obtained from
a voluntary/ confidential reporting system or equivalent restricted operational data monitoring systems operating
under an SMS will be used for enforcement action. Safety data will not be disclosed for any purpose other than
the purpose of aviation safety promotion unless a court of law decides otherwise.
19.10 Aircraft Accident and Incident Investigation Bureau: A separate and independent Bureau for the conduct of
investigations on aircraft accidents and serious incidents will be established.
19.11 Aviation Disaster Management Plan: Action will be taken to develop and implement an Aviation Disaster
Management Plan in coordination with the relevant authorities responsible for national disaster management.
In order to maintain the highest standards in safety investigations, the principle of the independence of
investigations of accidents and major incidents will be protected and upheld. This will include development of
an Aeronautical Search and Rescue Plan that will address the needs of search and rescue obligation of the State
in respect of aircraft in distress within the airspace that is delegated to Sri Lanka for provision of air navigation
services. It will also include Public Health Emergency Response requirements at airports.
20. Aviation Security
20.1 Aviation Security is defined as safeguarding civil aviation against acts of unlawful interference. This objective
will be achieved by a combination of measures and human and material resources.
20.2 The GoSL maintains a zero-tolerance policy with regard to “air rage” and an act by any person which may
endanger an aircraft, its passengers and/or crew, will be prosecuted under domestic and/or international law.
20.3 In conformity with applicable international conventions and domestic legislation, all necessary steps will be
taken to ensure that aviation is safeguarded against acts of unlawful interference by terrorists and other
perpetrators of violence against aircraft or airports.
20.4 Priority will be given to the consistent implementation of the approved National Civil Aviation Security Programme
(NCASP). Timely action will be taken to affect the necessary amendments to the NCASP based on periodical
threat assessments to ensure measures of control commensurate with the risk factor.
20.5 The regulatory agency for aviation security of the State will be the CAASL. The CAASL is required to ensure
that surveillance of all civil aviation security functions is conducted by a quality control mechanism. All

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.02.2021
14A
stakeholders performing aviation security functions should manage their tasks by an internal quality control
system.
20.6 Steps will be taken to ensure implementation of aviation security measures and controls stipulated in the
NCASP on a continuous basis and to a consistent standard.  All civil airports and aerodromes shall maintain
Aviation Security Services certified by the CAASL.
20.7 Adequate training for all personnel involved in civil aviation security in conformity with the National Civil
Aviation Security Training Programme will be carried out.
20.8 Civil aviation security measures and requirements will be integrated into the architectural design and construction
of new facilities and alterations to existing facilities at airports and aerodromes.
20.9 In order to ensure passenger confidence and convenience and to avoid an uneasy environment at airports,
action will be taken to provide better information to the traveling public regarding screening processes together
with appropriate signage. Effective screening technologies and techniques where appropriate will be introduced
to improve passenger convenience and address security concerns, with due regard to individual privacy. In
partnership with the industry, guidance for handling complaints, screening passengers with special needs and
other aspects of the screening process will be developed.
20.10 To be in readiness for unforeseen aviation security contingencies, an Airport Security Contingency Plan will be
developed with agencies responsible for national security and regularly updated. Action will also be taken to
establish a fully equipped Emergency Operation Centre to meet any security contingency.
21. Civil-Military Coordination
21.1 The GoSL recognizes that the Sri Lanka Air Force (SLAF) has valuable assets in terms of skilled personnel,
equipment and infrastructure to provide supporting services such as search & rescue operations, which could
be shared for the benefit of the country’s aviation sector.
21.2 The GoSL recognizes that the Sri Lanka Navy has qualified Naval personnel to engage in water rescue missions
in the event of an aircraft alighting on water and in addition, to look after the water borne security during the
arrival and departure of VVIP aircraft.
21.3 A J oint Civil-Military Coordination Committee will be established with a view to facilitating a harmonious
working environment, where unimpeded civil aviation operations will take place in close coordination and
cooperation with the military.
22. Facilitation at Airports
22.1 The GoSL recognizes that Airport Facilitation consists of the efficient management of the flow of passengers,
baggage, cargo and mail through the airport facilities, ensuring that services are delivered in a healthy, safe and
secure environment, and meeting and exceeding when possible the needs and expectations of customers. This
should be applicable for all scenarios, during good days and bad days, under normal operations and situations
of flight disruption.
22.2 Passenger facilitation is not just achieved by airport operators in isolation. It requires a high level of interaction
and coordination with partners and stakeholders that are responsible for the different steps of the end to end
passenger process, from the time of booking to the time the passengers arrive at their final destination.
22.3 The GoSL will establish a National Air Transport Facilitation Committee (NATFC) comprising the Head of
Organization of the agencies involved and headed by the Secretary to the line Ministry with a view to securing
aforementioned objectives and to help airports improve their terminal flows and processes by providing a set

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.02.2021
15A
of recommendations, guidelines and best practices, together with measuring and benchmarking opportunities
provided through the Airport Service Quality (ASQ) programmes.
23. Human Resources Development
23.1 The GoSL recognizes the importance of a trained, qualified, experienced and skilled aviation workforce to steer
the industry forward, safely and professionally. In this context, the GoSL will join hands with the ICAO in
promoting Next Generation Aviation Professional (NGAP) Programme in Sri Lanka whereby future human
resources are identified and appropriate training provided.
23.2 To this end the GoSL will encourage the development of Aviation Training Centres capable of delivering a
variety of training programmes related to the field of aviation. Training in the areas of flying, aircraft maintenance,
airport related technical areas, safety management systems, aviation security, airline and airport marketing,
aviation economics, airport master planning, human resource development and aviation law will be accorded
the highest priority.
23.3 T raining establishments are thus encouraged to share synergies and benefit from each other’s resources in
order to optimize the quality of training and to gain international acceptance through certification and accreditation
by leading international training establishments.
23.4 All aviation related organizations will be required to address training needs through a comprehensive training
plan for employees and implement it through systematically designed training programmes, by induction and
in-service training.
23.5 It is necessary to have in place a National Plan for career succession in civil aviation starting within schools to
create awareness among the younger generation and assist in defining career pathways from school into
aviation related occupations.
23.6 Action may be taken to include aviation in the school and vocational & training curriculum and will be included
in the university education with a view to upgrading aviation studies leading to degrees in civil aviation.
23.7 Industry partners will be required to facilitate this education process by providing in-house/industrial training
and internships for undergraduates following aviation degree programmes conducted by the universities and
other aviation institutions.
23.8 A National Civil Aviation Training Co-ordination Centre will be set up with a view to marketing local aviation
training facilities and services.
23.9 Scholarship programmes will be arranged under the ICAO Third Country Training Programme so that more
foreign students are attracted through the Foreign Ministry and the Department of Commerce under joint trade
agreements with other States.
23.10 A special fund will be set up to initiate, channel and facilitate local and foreign training for civil aviation related
skills development projects and improvement and upgrading of training facilities in the private sector.
24. Public Private Participation and Investment Promotion
24.1 The GoSL supports a competitive environment for aviation related businesses such as multiple ground handling
service providers, airline caterers, suppliers of aviation fuel and lubricants at airports in line with demand for
such facilities while giving due regard to existing commitments and national interests.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.02.2021
16A
24.2 Opportunities for the setting up of Aircraft Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) facilities will be provided
to potential investors in accordance with the international safety standards such as EASA (European Aviation
Safety Agency) and FAA (Federal Aviation Administration).
24.3 Foreign investment up to a 90% of share capital in public-private partnerships (PPPs) for the development,
operation and maintenance of new civil aviation related projects and/or new airports / heliports/ water aerodromes
will be permitted. Foreign investment and PPPs in areas such as establishment and operation of airlines,
maintenance, repair and overhaul organizations, manufacturing organizations, catering and aviation training
centre’s etc... will be encouraged in accordance with applicable laws, regulations and guidelines.
25. Consumer Protection
25.1 While the GoSL is committed to ensure safety, security and sustainability of the aviation sector through the use
of technology and effective monitoring, action will also be taken to implement and enforce an Airline Accident
Victim Relief Programme which is the responsibility of the respective airlines to provide relief to the victims and
survivors of aviation accidents and next of kin to meet their immediate needs.
25.2 Provided that where any airline operating to/from or through Sri Lanka already includes and maintains
compensation benefits for injury and/or loss of life in accordance with applicable international standards as
part of its Conditions of Carriage (CoC), such airline(s) shall be excluded from the ambit and purview of the
proposed Airline Accident Victim Relief Programme, as contemplated in the preceding paragraph in order to
prevent dual exposure of airlines to liability for injury and /or loss of life and/or damage to property.
25.3 The GoSL will take measures to prevent unfair trade practices of airlines and safeguard the common interests of
the industry.
25.4 GoSL recognizes the need to protect air transport consumers and will take appropriate measures to safeguard
their rights of air transport consumers by introducing necessary rules that includes but not limited to denied
boarding situations and flight delays or cancellations.
26. Regulation of air cargo industry
The GoSL recognize the potential of air cargo transport to meet the need for efficient connectivity of distant markets
for expeditious and reliable means for global supply chain. In this context, the GoSL will completely liberalise the
carriage of cargo by air, without any limitation whatsoever. It will also facilitate the air cargo handling procedures in
line with the applicable international conventions.
27. Access for Persons with Reduced Mobility and Special Needs
The GoSL recognizes the difficulties experienced by people with reduced mobility and special needs in accessing air
travel. This strategy will involve a range of measures adopted from the best international aviation industry prac-
tices, underpinned by a commitment to more consultations on reduced mobility issues with relevant parties in
keeping with international obligations undertaken by the GoSL.
28. Multi Modal Transportation
28.1 The GoSL will promote multi modal transportation wherever possible to enable the growth of the industry and
the national economy.
28.2 The airport infrastructure will be integrated with other modes of transport such as, rail, road and sea ports where
possible.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.02.2021
17A
29. Environmental Safeguards
29.1 The GoSL recognizes the importance of addressing the negative impact of aviation activities on the environment
and the need to take appropriate mitigation measures.
29.2 Accordingly, the GoSL will implement the ICAO-approved basket of measures, including GMBM (Global Market
Based Measures).
30. International Conventions
In the fulfilment of its international obligations, the GoSL will also take steps to accede to International Conventions
and Instruments as deemed applicable and necessary, including the Montreal Convention (1999) and Cape Town
Convention (Aircraft Protocol).
31. Taxation and Related Issues
The GoSL will take it into account industry stakeholder views as well as the development of the aviation industry in
Sri Lanka in its taxation policy.
32. Implementation, Monitoring and Amendment of the Policy
32.1 The GoSL will ensure that there shall be a review mechanism to monitor the implementation of this policy
document.
32.2 The GoSL shall also ensure that this policy will be updated in a timely manner to keep pace with the technological
advancement and industry development.
33. Glossary
Table of Acronyms
Acronym Title
GoSL Government of Sri Lanka
ICAO International Civil Aviation Organisation
CAASL Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka
AASL Airport & Aviation Services (Sri Lanka) Limited
BIA Bandaranayke International Airport
PPB Principal Place of Business
PPP Public Private Partnership
DGCA Director General of Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka
SMS Safety Management Systems
SLAF Sri Lanka Airforce
ASBU A viation System Block Upgrade
ATC Air Traffic Control
AOC Air Operators Certificate
NCASP National Civil Aviation Security Programme
VVIP V ery Very Important Person
NGAP Next Generation A viation Professional Programme
EASA European Aviation Safety Agency
FAA Federal Aviation Administration
CoC Conditions of Carriage
GMBM Global Market Based Measures
MRO Maintenance, Repair & Overhaul
02 - 622
.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.