

<!-- page 1 -->

KELANIYA ASHOKARAMA SILUMINI FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Kelaniya Ashokarama Silumini Foundation
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
A
BILL
Presented by Hon. Sisira Jayakody, M. P. for Gampaha District
on 08th February, 2017
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs.  8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
——————
——————
[Bill No. 161]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on January 23, 2017)

<!-- page 2 -->

Kelaniya Ashokarama Silumini Foundation
(Incorporation)
1
5
10
15
2—PL 004960—300 (12/2016)
20
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE KELANIYA ASHOKARAMA SILUMINI
FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Society  called and known as the
“Kelaniya Ashokarama Silumini Foundation” has heretofore
been formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually
carrying out its  objects and transacting all matters connected
with the said Foundation according to the rules agreed to by
its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted  several objects and
matters for which it was established,  and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be expedient to grant the said
application :
BE it  therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Kelaniya Ashokarama
Silumini Foundation  (Incorporation) Act, No.    of  2017.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the  “Kelaniya
Ashokarama Silumini Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as
the “Foundation”) or  shall  hereafter be admitted as members
of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be  a body corporate,
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of the
“Kelaniya Ashokarama Silumini Foundation” (hereinafter
referred to as the  “Corporation”) and by that name may sue
and be sued, with full power and authority to have and  use a
common seal and  to alter  the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to conduct an annual Perahera continuously with a
view of promoting and enriching the Hela culture
and pass over to the future generation;
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the
Kelaniya
Ashokarama
Silumini
Foundation.
25
General
objects of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Kelaniya Ashokarama Silumini Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to uplift temples and viharas for the renaissance of
Buddhism that are found neglected in the rural areas;
(c) to donate books and award scholarships to those
school and university students of lower income for
the upliftment of their education; and to draw action
plans with the same objectives;
(d) to creare a consultation service and formation of an
action plan to develop the existing societies and
organizations at village level;
(e) to introduce a movement called “Silumina Yathra”
with a view of assisting and aiding the people affected
and displaced by natural disasters and other
devastations;
(f) to organize various projects at national and regional
level in order to develop the education and other
facilities of the Religious (Daham) as well as Pirivena
Schools;
(g) to activate projects such as various programmes,
seminars and lectures in national and regional level
with the aim of quenching the thirst for Dhamma of
the laymen and clergymen in way of increasing
religious knowledge. Setting up of Buddhist Journals
for the poor people;
(h) to launch a programme in national and regional level
to donate Sill cloth, uniform materials and books for
the devotees with the view of uplifting those who are
engaged in Seela movement, and those students who
are attached to the Damma School for religious
education;

<!-- page 4 -->

Kelaniya Ashokarama Silumini Foundation
(Incorporation)
3
5
10
15
20
25
(i) to launch a necessary formal and professional
consultation service aiming at regaining and relieving
the people suffering from the various social,
economic, cultural and political mental fatigues; and
to those suffering from mental fatigues caused by
internal as well as external sources in the family
structure;
(j) to activate programmes aiming at educating people
of the effect of the drugs and guiding the drug addicts
to various rehabilitation programmes;
(k) to launch various get-together and programmes
aiming at promoting the mental health of the senior
citizens;
(l) to initiate a Vocational Training School so as to
provide necessary training skill enabling the jobless
youths to engage in self-employments;
(m) to promote understanding, co-operation and
friendship with similar institutions within and outside
Sri Lanka; and initiating common projects as mutually
agreed upon;
(n) to act as centre for providing school students an
education parallel to the curriculum; and
(o) to do all such other acts and things as are necessary
for and incidental or conducive to the attainment of
the above objects.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as  necessary
or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects
of the Corporation or any one of them, including the power—
(a) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations in
cash or kind;
30
General
powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Kelaniya Ashokarama Silumini Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to acquire, in any manner whatsoever and hold, take
or give on lease or hire, rent, sell or otherwise dispose
of any movable or immovable property and construct,
maintain and alter any buildings or works necessary
or convenient for the business of the Corporation;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate and close bank accounts and
borrow or raise money with or without security;
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for the
purposes of the Corporation in such manner as the
Board of Management may determine;
(e) to enter into agreement or contracts with any person,
or body of persons whether incorporated in Sri Lanka
or abroad or with any Government Department,
Corporation, Board, Provincial Council or Local
Authority for the achievement of the objects of the
Corporation;
(f) to determine the fees to be paid in respect of
registration of different categories of membership;
and
(g) appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services of
officers and servants of the Corporation and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for
the time being of the Corporation be administered by a
Board of Directors consisting of the Chairman, the
Secretary, Treasurer and other  members elected in
accordance with such rules.
30
Management
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Kelaniya Ashokarama Silumini Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
subsection (1) of this section the nomination of the successor
to the incumbent Chairman of this Foundation, without any
obstacle, be the sole right of the incumbent Chairman during
His tenure. This nomination become authenticated upon
officially declaring the nominee at a meeting of Board of
Directors.
(3) In any circumstances, if it deems fit, the right to change
the nomination be the right of the incumbent Chairman in
His tenure. The Board of Directors or any Member has no
right to object or question and no right to reject or decline to
accept such a nomination of the successor.
(4) Chairman must lead this Foundation with no any
political affiliation.
(5) If any Member of the Foundation or the Board of
Directors is made an accusation against upon any immoral
or indisciplinary issue, a disciplinary inquiry be conducted
in accordance with the natural law; and the Chairman has
the right to, if found guilty, remove him or her with the
penalty for any damages caused.
(6) The Chief Prelate of the Ashokaramaya Viharaya be
the ex-officio Chairman of the Foundation.
(7) The Board of Management of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Directors of the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this
Act.
(8) A member of the Board of Directors other than the
Chairman shall unless he vacates his office earlier by death
or resignation, holds office for a period of four years. Where
due to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Board of
Directors a new member shall be appointed to fill such
vacancy and such a new member shall hold office for a period
of four years.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Kelaniya Ashokarama Silumini Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any General Meeting and by the votes  not less than
two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make rules,
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other
written law, for the admission, withdrawal or expulsion of
members, the election of the Board of Management, for the
conduct of the duties of the office bearers, agents, officers
and servants of the Corporation, for the procedure to be
followed in the transaction of business by the Corporation
and Board of Management and generally, for the
management of the affairs of the Corporation and the
accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made may
at a like meeting and in a like manner, be altered, added to,
amended or rescinded.
(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund. All
moneys received by way of gifts, bequests, donations,
transfers,  subscriptions, contributions, or fees shall be
deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or more
Banks as the Board of Management shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund of the Corporation,
all such sums of money as may be required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in carrying out the
objects of the Corporation.
(3) The moneys and property of the Corporation
whosoever derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of the objects as set forth herein and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or otherwise, to any member of the
Corporation.
20
25
30
Rules of the
Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

Kelaniya Ashokarama Silumini Foundation
(Incorporation)
7
Seal of the
Corporation.
8. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor as  may be determined by the Board.
In this section, “qualified auditor” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by  the Council of such
institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of the Chartered Accountants of Sri
Lanka or of any other institute established by
law, possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
institute.
9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Chairman and the Secretary who shall sign their names on
the instrument in token of their presence and such signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a
witness.
10. All debts and liabilities of the foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable
to the foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
Accounts and
Audit.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Kelaniya Ashokarama Silumini Foundation
(Incorporation)
11. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law,
to take and  hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being
of the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation but shall be given or
transferred to some other Foundation or Foundations having
objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which is or
are, by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing any
income or property among its or their members. Such
Foundation or Foundations shall be determined by the Board
at or immediately before the dissolution of the Corporation.
13. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of annual subscription payable by
him to the Corporation.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other person, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Limitation of
liability of
members.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 10 -->

Kelaniya Ashokarama Silumini Foundation
(Incorporation)
9
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .