

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 1955$6 - 2016 fmnrjdß ui 23 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2016'02'23
No. 1955/6  -  TUESDAY  FEBRUARY  23,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
NORTHERN   PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Northern Province Provincial Council Health Services Statute No. 01 of 2015
NOTICE is hereby given that the Northern Province, Provincial Council has adopted the Northern Province Health Services
Statute No. 01 of 2015 on 12th January 2016 and that the Hon. Governor, Northern Province has granted his Assent to it
on 08.02.2016
K. T
HEIVENDRAN,
Secretary,
Council Secretariat,
Northern Provincial Council.
Council Secretariat,
A9 Road,
Kaithady,
19th February 2016.
THE   HEALTH   SERVICES   STATUTE
A Statute to provide for the establishment of a Northern Province Department of Health Services,
to provide for the continuation of services for the promotion and preservation of the health of the
people in the Northern Province ; and to provide for all the matters connected therewith and incidental
thereto.
This Statute is inconsistent with the Health Service Act, No. 12 of 1952 as amended.
Be it enacted by the Provincial Council of the Northern Province as follows :-
1. This Statute may be cited as the Northern Province Health Services Statute, No. 1 of 2015, and
shall come into force on the date on which is receives the assent of the Governor.
Short title and
date of operation

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
2A
PART  I
ESTABLISHMENT  OF   THE  NORTHERN   PROVINCE   DEPARTMENT   OF   HEALTH SERVICES,   ITS
CONSTITUTION   AND   RESPONSIBILITIES
2 (1) There shall be a Northern Province Department of Health Services (hereinafter referred to
as “the Department”) which shall be administered in accordance with the provisions of this
Statute.
(2) The appointment, transfer, dismissal and disciplinary control of officers of the Department
(other than officers in an All-island Service seconded for service in the Department) shall
vest in the Governor in terms of Part IV of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987.
3 The functions of the Department shall be -
a) to establish, administer and maintain Health institutions set out hereinafter in the Schedule
to this Statute, and to promote the improvement of the services provided by them ;
b) to establish and maintain institutions set out hereinafter in the Schedule to this Statute as
required for the provision of services relating to public health, educating the public on
health issues, nutrition, family health maternity and child care, food and food sanitation
and enviornmental health ;
c) to implement the Provincial Health Development Plan and the Annual Health Plan for the
Province ;
d) to provide all facilities (other than drugs) to the hospitals and institutions referred to in
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) ;
e) to identify the staff and other servants required for the efficient discharge of services to be
provided by the hospitals institutions referred to in sub-paragraphs ( a) and (b) and to make
recommendations in respect of such requirements to the relevant authorities ;
f) to provide capacity improvement programmes for all categories of staff of the Department
; and
g) generally to do all such other things as are necessary to facilitate the proper discharge of
the functions of the Department.
4 1. There shall be a Provincial Dircector of Health Services (hereinafter referred to as “the
Provincial Director”) who shall be the head of the Northern Province Department of Health
Services and shall, subject to the direction and supervision of the Secretary, implement the
provisions of this Statute.
2. There shall be appointed a Deputy Provincial Director of Health Services (hereinafter
referred to as “the Deputy Provincial Director - Health Services”) and  a Deputy Provincial
Director of Administration (hereinafter referred to as “the Deputy Provincial Director -
Administration”), who shall assist the Provincial Director in the discharge of his functions,
duties and responsibilities.
5 1. There shall be five Regional Directors of Health Services appointed respectively, for the
districts of Jaffna, Kilinochchi, Mullaitivu, Vavuniya and Mannar.
Establishment of
Northern
Province,
Department of
Health Services
The functions of
the Northern
Province
Department of
Health Services
Provincial
Director of Health
Services
Regional
Directors of
Health Services

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
2. Subject of the direction and supervision of the Provincial Director, the Regional Directors
of Health Services shall be responsible for the provision of health services in their
respective districts.
6 1. The Provincial Director shall facilities the preparation of the Annual Health Plan for the
succeeding year, taking into consideration the following in respect of the Province.
a) the increase of population in relation to the extent of land ;
b) the spread of disease ;
c) the nutritional condition of the people ;
d) the impact of the environment on health ; and
e) transport facilities available.
The Plan shall give a description of the development and construction activities proposed
to be undertaken during the succeeding year.
2. The Provincial Director shall submit the Annual Health Plan to the Secretary who shall
then place it before the Provincial Health Services Advisory Board for its observations,
The Secretary shall consider incorporating any observations of the Provincial Health
Services Advisory Board which in his opinion facilitate the provision of health services in
the Province and approve the Plan, before the thirtieth day of November of the year preceding
the year to which the Annual Health Plan relates. Then the Secretary will submit the Annual
Health Plan to the Board of Ministers through the Minister of Health for the approval of
the Board of Ministers.
3. Any development or construction activity which is not referred to in the Annual health Plan
for a particular year shall not be undertaken in that year, except with the approval of the
Board of Ministers.
7 The Provincial Director shall submit to the Secretary, before the end of the first quarter of every
year, a report with regard to the state of public health in the Province in the preceding year. The
report shall identify, with statistics, the successes and the weaknesses in implementing the Annual
Health Development Plan during the preceding year, and recommend measures to correct any
weakness identified.
8 The Provincial Director may, by notice in writing, request the Secretary or the Commissioner, as
the case may be, of any local authority in the Northern Province to provide necessary particulars
and information with regard to health conditions within the respective administrative limits. The
Secretary or Commissioner, as the case may be, shall assist the Provincial Director by providing
the relevant information.
9 1. The Minister may make regulations in respect of any matter required by this Statute to be
prescribed or in respect of which regulations are authorized or required by this Statute to
be made.
2. Every regulation made under this section shall be published in the Gazette and shall come
into operation on the date of such publication or on such later date as may be specified in
such regulation.
3. Every regulation made by the Minister shall, before the expiration of one month after its
publication in the Gazette, be brought before the Provincial Council for its approval, Every
regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of
such disapproval but without prejudice to anything previously done there under. Notification
of the date on which any regulation is deemed to be rescineded shall be published in the
Gazette .
Annual Health
Plan
Annual Report
relating to the
condition of
Health in the
Province
Health activities
within the local
authority areas
The powers of the
Minister to make
regulations

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
4A
PART  II
PROVINCIAL   HEALTH   SERVICES   ADVISORY   BOARD   AND   HOSPITAL   DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE
10 1. There shall be established a Provincial Health Services Advisory Board (hereinafter referred
to as “the Advisory Board”)
2. The Advisory Board shall be appointed by the Minister and shall consist of not more than
Nineteen (19) members appointed in the following manner.
a. ex-officio members, namely -
i. the Provincial Director of Health Services ;
ii. the Provincial Director of Education ;
iii. the Provincial Commissioner of Local Government ;
iv. the Provincial Director of Social Services ;
v . the Provincial Commissioner of Indigenous Medicine ;
vi. every Regional Director of Health Services in-charge of a district ; and
b. the following members who shall be known as “appointed members” -
i. four members from amongst medical practitioners working in the hospitals
and institutions referred to in sub-paragraphs ( a) and ( b) of Section 3, and
specializing respectively, in Community Medicine, General Medicine,
Obstetrics and Paediatrics ;
ii. five members from amongst persons with at least ten (10) years of experience
in the filds of Health and Social Services to represent Jaffna, Kilinochchi,
Mullaitivu, Vanuniya and Mannar districts respectively
3. No person shall be qualified to be appointed or continue as a member of the Advisory
Board if -
a) he is not a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
b) he has not attained the age of eighteen years ;
c) he is or becomes a Member of Parliament, any Provincial Council or any Local
Authority ;
d) he has been declared an undischarged bankrupt or insolvent under any law in force in
Sri Lanka or any other country.
e) he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any other country found or declared to be
of unsound mind ;
f) he is convicted of any offence involving moral turpitude or punishable with
imprisonment for a term not less than six months.
g) he is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment imposed by a court of law in
Sri Lanka or any other country ; or
h) he has any financial or other interest as is likely to affect the discharge of his functions
as a member of the Advisory Board.
4. The Provincial Director shall be the Chairman of the Advisory Board and the Secretary of
the Advisory Board shall be elected from amongst the ex-officio members of the Advisory
Board.
5. The terms of office of every ex-officio member shall be the period during which he holds
the post by virtue of which he is a member of the Advisory Board.
Provincial Health
Services Advisory
Board

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
6. Each members has rights to cast one vote. in case of tie, the Chairman has the right
to exercise his casting vote.
7. An appointed member may resign from office by letter addressed to the Minister.
8. The Minister may, for reasons assigned, remove and appointed member from office.
9. Subject to sub-sections (7) and (8), the term of office of an appointed member shall be
two years.
10. An appointed member, who ceases to hold office by effluxion of time, shall be eligible for
reappointment.
11. Where an appointed member vacates, office by resignation, death, removal by the Minister
or otherwise, the Minister shall, having regard to the provisions of sub-paragraph ( b) of
sub-section 2, appoint another person to fill such vacancy. The person so appointed shall
hold office for the unexpired period of the term of office of the member whom he succeeds.
12. The Advisory Board shall meet at least once in three months or whenever necessary.
13. The Secretary shall summon meetings of the Advisory Board, and shall maintain minutes
of the meetings of Advisory Board.
14. The quorum for a meeting of the Advisory Board shall be eleven (11), including the
Chairman.
15. Members who attend meetings of the Advisory Board shall be paid allowances of such
amount as may be determined by the Minister in consultation with the Minister in-charge
of the subject of Finance and with the concurrence of the Governor.
11 The functions of the Advisory Board shall be to make recommendations and observations to the
Minister on matters referred to it by the Minister for the planning and provision of health services
in the Province, the improvement of the services provided by the Department and generally, for
the promotion and preservation of the health of the people in the Province.
12 1. The Secretary shall, with the approval of the Minister, appoint for every hospital and
institution set out in sub-paragraphs ( a) and (b) of section 3 a Development Committee for
the development of such institution.
2. Every Development Committee appointed, under sub-section (1) shall consist of -
a) ex-officio members, namely -
i. the Medical Officer in-charge of that hospital or institutions ;
ii. the Divisional Secretary of the Division within which that institution is situated ;
iii. A representative of the Buildings Department not below the rank of Techincal
Officer ;
iv. the Secretary or Commissioner, as the case may be, of every local autority
within the administrative limits of which that insitution is situated ; and
Functions of the
Advisory Board
Development
Committee

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
6A
b) the following members who shall be known as “appointed members”
i. four representatives of the staff of that  institution ;
ii. not more than six persons from amongst persons engaged in health and social
service activities in the area within which that institution is situated.
3. No person shall be qualfied to be appointed or continue as a member of a Development
Committee if -
a) he is not a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
b) he has not attained the age of eighteen years ;
c) he is or becomes a Member of Parliament, any Provincial Council or any Local
Authority ;
d) he has been declared an undischarged bankrupt or insolvent under any law in force in
Sri Lanka or any other country ;
e) he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any other country found or declared to be
of unsound mind ;
f) he is convicted of any offence involving moral turpitude or punishment with
imprisonment for a term not less than six months.
g) he is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment imposed by a court of law in
Sri Lanka or any other country ; or
h) he has any financial or other interest as it likely to affect the discharge or his functions
as a member of the Advisory Board.
4. The term of office of every ex-officio member shall be the period during which he holds
the post by virtue of which he is a member of the Committee.
5. Each member has rights to cast one vote. In case of tie, the Chairman has the right to
excercise his casting vote.
6. An appointed member may resign from office by letter addressed to the Secretary.
7. The Secretary may, for reasons assigned and subject to the approval of the Minister, remove
an appointed member from office.
8. Subject to sub-sections (6) and (7), the term of office of an appointed member shall be
two years.
9. An appointed member, who ceases to hold office by effluxion of time, shall be eligible for
reappointment.
10. Where an appointed member vacates office by resignation, death, removal by the Secretary
or otherwise, the Secretary shall, having regard to the provisons of sub-paragraph ( b) of
sub-section 2, appoint another person to fill such vacancy. The person so appointed shall
hold office for the unexpired period of the term of office of the member whom he succeeds.
11. The Medical Officer referred to in sub-paragraph ( a) of sub-section 2 shall be the Chairman
of the Development Committee appointed for that institution. A person elected by the
members shall be the Secretary of the Development Committee. The Secretary shall maintain
minutes of the meetings of the Committee.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
12. Every Development Committee appointed for a particular institution may, subject to the
approval of the Secretary, take measures for the development and rehabilitation of that
institution.
13. A Development Committee appointed for  a Hospital prior to the coming into force of this
Statute shall, for all purposes, be deemed to be a Committee appointed under this Statute.
Members of such Committee shall continue to hold office as members of a Hospital
Development Committee appointed in accordance with the provisions of this Statute until
a new committee is appointed in accordance with the provisons of sub-section 1.
PART   III - GENERAL
13. Subject to the national policy on health, all services provided in the Hospitals and institutions
referred to in sub-paragraphs ( a) and (b) of section 3 shall be provided without any charge.
14 In case of any inconsistency between the Tamil and the Sinhala or Engilsh text of this statute, the
Tamil text shall prevail.
15 In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires -
“Department” means the Northern Province Department of Health Services ;
“Local authority” means a Municipal Council, Urban Council or Pradeshiya Sabha in the Northern Province ;
“Governor” means the Governor of the Northern Province ;
“Medical practitioner” means a person registered as a medical practitioner under the Medical Ordinance.
“Minister” means the Minister of the Board of Ministers of the Northern Province, in-charge of the
subject of health ;
“Province” means the Northern Province consisting of the administrative District of Jaffna, Kilinochchi,
Mannar, V anuniya and Mullaitivu ;
“Provincial Director of Health Services” means the Director of the Northern Province Department of
Health Services ;
“Secretary” means the Secretary to the  Ministry of the Minister of the Board of Ministers of the Northern
Province, in-charge of the subject of health.
Free Health
Services
Language
Inconsistency
Interpretation

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
8A
SCHEDULE   I
Medical Institutions of the Provincial Department of Health Services, Northern Province
CURATIVE   SECTION
Type of Institution Jaffna Region Kilinochchi Region Mullaitivue Region V avuniya Region Mannar Region
General Hospital - 1. Kil linochchi 1. Mullaitivue 1. V avuniya 1. Mannar
Base Hospital 1. T ellipalai - - - -
Type A 2. Point Pedro
Base Hospital 1. Chavakachcheri 1. Mulankavil 1. Mankulam 1. Cheddikulam -
Type B 2. Kayts 2. Mallavi
Divisional Hospitals 1. Atchuveli 1. Akkarayankulam 1. Puthukudiyiruppu - 1 . Chilawathurai
Type A 2. Chankani 3. Sampathnuwara 2. Murunkan
3. Kopay 3. Talaimannar
4. Velvettihurai
Divisional Hospitals 1. Velanai 1. Poonakary 1. Oddusuddan 1. Nedunkerny 1. Adampan
Type B 2. Nattankandal 2. Pesalai
3. Vidathaltivu
Divisional Hospitals 1. Delft 1. Palai 1. Unapulavu 1. Ulukulam 1. Erukkalampitti
Type C 2. Punguduthivu 2. Tharmapuram 2. Alampil 2. Pavaikulam 2. Vankalai
3. Analaitivu 3. Uruthirapuram 3. Kokilai 3. P oovarasankumal 3. Nanattan
4. Karainagar 4. V eravil 4. Moonkilaru 4. Neriyakulam 4. Periyapandi-
5. Nainathivu 5. V addakachchi 5. Sithamparapuram -virichchan
6. Maruthankerny 6. Puliyankulam
7. Vaddukoddai 7. Mamaduwa
8. Pandathrippu
9. Alaveddy
10. Ampan
11. Gurunagar
12. Karaveddy
13. Kodikamam
14. Kondavail
15. Mandaithivu
16. Manipay
17. Varany
18. Ilavalai
Primary Medical Care 1. Chunnakam 1. Elephant Pass 1. Iyankankulam 1. Omanthai 1. Iranai Illpakulam
Unit 2. Erlalai 2. Iranaithivu 2. Thunukkai 2. Sooduventhapulavu 2.Maruchchukaddy
3. Inuvil (Jeyapuram) 3. Mulliyawalai 3. Thiruketheeswaram
4. Kaithady 3. Kandawalai 4. Kiribanwewa 4. V ellankulam
5. Kankesanthurai 4. V annerikulam 5. Ampalavanpokkanai 5. Periyamadu
6. Kokuvil 6. Karippaddamurippu 6. Tharapuram
7. Palay 7. Vepankulam
8. Point Pedro 8. Pandaraveli
9. Punnalakadduvan
10. Puthur
11. Tholpuram
12. Uduvil
13. Urumpirai

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
14. Mulliyan
15. Vaddukoddai
16. Eluwaitivu
17. Pannai (Jaffna)
Chest Clinic 1. Jaffna 1. Killinochchi 1. Mullaithivu 1. V avuniya 1. Mannar
S. T. D. Clinic - 1. Killinochchi 1. Mullaithivu 1. V avuniya 1. Mannar
PREVENTIVE  SECTION
M. O. H. Offices 1. Chavakachcheri 1. Killinochchi 1. Mullaithivu 1. V avuniya 1. Mannar
2. Point Pedro 2. Poonagary 2. Mallavi 2. Cheddikulam 2. Nanttan
3. Kayts 3. Kandawalai 3. Puthukudiyirrppu 3. V avuniya South 3. Manthai West
4. Tellipalai 4. Palai 4. Oddusuddan 4. V avuniya North 4. Musali
5. Sandilipay 5. Sampathnuwara 5. Madhu
6. Kopay
7. Velani
8. Nallur
9. Uduvil
10. Chankanai
11. Karaveddy
Anti-Malaria Campaign 1. Jaffna 1. Kilinochchi 1. Mullaithivu 1. V avuniya 1. Mannar
and Spraying Centres
(SPC)
School Dental 1. Central College, 1. Kilinochchi Maha 1. MOH Office, 1. Rampaikulam 1. ADC, St. Xavier’s
Clinic Jaffna V idyalayam Mullaitivu G. M. V. Girls College,
2. Drieberg College 2. Vavuniya Tamil Mannar
Chavakachcheri M. M. V . 2. ADC, Sithyvina
3. St. Jones College 3. V avuniya Muslim nayagar Hindu
Jaffna M. M. V . College,
4. Ramanathan 4. V avuniya Kovilkulam Mannar
College, Chunnakam Puthukulam 3. ADC, Al-Azhar
5. Girls High College Mv, Mannar
Uduppiddy 4. ADC, St. Anne’s
6. Hindu College M. M. V . Vankalai
Manipay
7. SDC, DH, Kondavil
8. SDC, DH, Velanai
9. H. C. Vaddukoddai
10. Alaveddy
Arunodhaya College
S
CHEDULE  I  (Contd.)
Medical Institutions of the Provincial Department of Health Services, Northern Province
CURATIVE  SECTION
Type of Institution Jaffna Region Kilinochchi Region Mullaitivue Region V avuniya Region Mannar Region

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
10A
SCHEDULE  I  (Contd.)
Medical Institutions of the Provincial Department of Health Services, Northern Province
PREVENTIVE  SECTION
Type of Institution MOH Chava MOH Karachchi MOH Mullaitivue MOH Vavuniya MOH Mannar
1. Kachchai
2. Ushan
3. Mathuvil
4. Madduvil South
5. Maravanpullo
MOH Chankani
1. Pannagam
MOH Point Pedro
1. Viyaparimoolai
2. Thickam
3. Athiyady
4. Thumpalai East
5. Katkovalam
6. Manalkaddu
7. Kudathtanai
8. Thondamanaru
9. Uduththurai
10. Mamunai
MOH Kayts
1. Allaipiddy
MOH  Sandilipay
1. Chavalkadu
2. Mulli
3. Pranpattu
4. Sillalai
MOH Nallur
1. Ariyalai
MOH Uduvil
1. Thavdy
2. Sanguvely
3. Evinai
MOH Koay
1. Sivanagar
2. Aanaivilunthan
3. Puthumurippu
4. Skanthapuram
5. Santhapuram
6. Unionkulam
7. Uthayanagar West
8. Ramanathapuram
9. Kanagambikaikulam
10. Malayalapuram
MOH Kandawalai
1. Kalmadunagar
2. Puliyampokkanai
3. Kallaru
4. Umaiyalpuram
5. Punnaineeravi
MOH Poonagary
1. Nachchikuda
2. 4th Mile Post
3. Kiranchi
4. Iranaimathanagar
5. Thampiral
6. Gnanimadam
7. Valaippadu
MOH Palai
1. Iyakkachchi
2. Karanthai
1. Kallapadu
2. Silawaththai
3. Mullivaikkai
4. Alampil
5. Kumulamunai
6. Uduppukkulam
7. Thanneerutu
8. Neeravipitty
9. Mamulai
10. Vattappalal
MOH Mallavi
1. Kalvilan
2. Therankandal
3. Iyankankulam
4. Pandiyankulam
5. Panankamam
6. Palinagar
7. Vannivilankulam
MOH Puthuku
diyiruppu
1. Eranapalai
2. Kompavil
3. Kaiveli
4. Vallipunam
5. Suthanthirapuram
6. Viswamadu East
7. Ambalavan
Pokkanai
MOH Oddichuddan
1. Koolamurippu
2. Othiyamalai
3. Thanduvan
4. Katchilaimadu
5. Muththaiyankaddu
LB
6. Muththaiyankaddu
RB
7. Ampakamam
8. Karippadda
murippu
9. Thirumurukandy
MOH Welioya
1. Pandarikulam
2. Samanamkulam
3. Maharambai
kulam
4. Koomankulam
5. Rajendran
kulam
6. Nelukulam
7. Eachchankulam
8. Sathirikoolan
kulam
9. Panrikaitha
kulam
10. Palamoddai
11. Semamadu
12. Santhosalai
13. Thevasikulam
14. Salambaikulam
15. Kathirvelar
poovarankulam
16. Nochchikulam
(Maligai)
17. Chekkaddi
pulavu
18. Samayapuram
MOH Vavuniya
North
1. Kanakarajan
kulam
2. Nainamadu
3. Puliyankulam
4. Kulavisuddan
5. Katkulam
6. Paddikudiyi
ruppu
7. Sinnadampan
8. Nedunkerny
9. Olumadu
MOH Vavuniya
South
1. Alagalle
2. Maddukanda
3. Agbopura
4. Galabobowas
veva
5. Rangethgama
MOH Cheddikulam
1. Sinnakarisal
2. Puthukudiyi
ruppu
3. Thalvupadu
4. Pallimunai
5. Tharapuram
6. Talaimannar
Pier
7. Erukalampiddy
MOH Nanattan
1. Madukkarai
2. Jeevanagar
3. Katkadantha
kulam
MOH Mussali
1. Arippu
2. Palaikudy
3. Kondaichchi
4. Agathimurippu
5. P.  Potkerny
6. Thampattam
musali
7. Puthuveli
8. Pichavanikulam
9. Karadikuly
10. Sannar
MOH Manthai West
1. Vidathaltheevu
West
2. Illupakkadavai
3. Moonrampiddi
4. Vadakandal
5. Echchilavakai
6. Verthimadal
7. Peiyamadhu
East
8. Sotnapuri
MOH Madhu
Gramodaya Health
Centre

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
1. Urelu
2. Neervely
3. Atchchelu
4. Vatharawathai
MOH Karaveddy
1. Kottawathai
MOH Tellipalai
1. Alaveddy
2. Cithagapuram
3. Senankaladdy
4. Kuddiyapulam
5. Kulamangal
S
CHEDULE  I  (Contd.)
Medical Institutions of the Provincial Department of Health Services, Northern Province
PREVENTIVE  SECTION
Type of Institution MOH Copay MOH Welioya MOH Cheddikula MOH Madhu
1. Janakapura
2. Sampathnuwara
3. Eththawettu
nuwewa
1. Varikuddiyur
2. Andiyapuliyan
kulam
3. Kanesapuram
4. Thaddankulam
Scheme
5. Meniyarkulam
Scheme
6. Menicfarm
7. Muthaliyar
kulam
1. Periyapandivi
richchan
2. Sinnavalayan
kaddu
3. Kunchikulam
4. Katdaiyadampan
5. Thachanamaru
thamadhu
SPECIAL  SERVICE  UNITS
Type of Institution Jaffna Region Killinochchi Region Mullaitivu Region V avuniya Region Mannar Region
Cancer Hospital 1. T ellipalai - - - -
Spinal Code and Injury - - - 1. V avuniya -
Centre
Prosthetics and Orthotics - 1. Killinochchi - 1. V avuniya -
Centre
TRAINING   INSTITUTIONS
Type of Institution Jaffna Region Killinochchi Region Mullaitivu Region V avuniya Region Mannar Region
Regional Training Centre 1. Pannai (Jaffna) - - - -
Nursing School - - - 1. V avuniya -

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
12A
COMMUNITY  BASED  INSTITUTIONS
Type of Institution Jaffna Region Killinochchi Region Mullaitivu Region V avuniya Region Mannar Region
Mental Health 1. T ellipalai - - 1. Cheddikulkan -
Intermediate 2. Point Pedro
Care Uunits
Mental Health 1. T ellipalai - - - -
Long Term
Care Units
Regional Addiction 1. Chavakachcheri - - - -
Rehabilitation Centre
Mental Health 1. Maruthankerny 1. Malayalapuran 1. Therawil 1. Maruthodi 1. Adampan
Community Support 2. Poonahary 2. Thunukkai 2. Musali
Centre 3. Tharmapuran 3. Mulliyawalai
03-222
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.