

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'09'23
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 23.09.2020
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2194$50 - 2020 iema;eïn¾ ui 23 jeks nodod - 2020'09'23
No. 2194/50  - WEDNESDAY ,  SEPTEMBER   23,  2020
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  PG  5141 — 150 (09/2020)
INLAND    REVENUE    ACT,    No.   24   OF   2017
Notice   under   Section   195(1)
BY virtue of powers vested in me, under item (vi) of sub-paragraph (a) under the caption of “Authorized Representative” in
subsection (1) of section 195 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017, I, Nadun Guruge Commissioner General of Inland
Revenue, do by this notification to repeal the “SCHEDULE 01” of the notice made under aforesaid section published in the
Gazette Extraordinary No. 2064/63 dated April 01, 2018 and substitute therefore of the following SCHEDULE 01 which
specifies the person who has satisfied the requirements specified in that schedule being registered upon an application
forwarded to the Commissioner General on that behalf.
 N
ADUN  GURUGE,
Commissioner General of Inland Revenue.
Department of  Inland  Revenue,
Colombo 02,
21st  September  2020.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'09'23
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 23.09.2020
2A
SCHEDULE    01
An individual who,
1. is a citizen and resident in Sri Lanka;
2. has attained the age of twenty one years;
3. is having any of following qualifications;
(I) was an Assessor or an Assistant Commissioner of the Sri Lanka Inland Revenue Service who has passed the
second Departmental Examination and has possessed a service of not less than five years in that position
after passing that second Departmental Examination; or
(II) be an individual registered as an auditor under the Companies (Auditors) Regulations; or
(III) be a member of the Sri Lanka Audit Service not below the rank of Superintendent of Audit Class II, being a
person who has been appointed to that service on the results of a competitive examination; or
(IV) be a member of the Sri Lanka Government Accountants’ Service not below Class II of that service, being a
person who has been appointed to that service on the results of a competitive examination; or
(V) Certified Tax Advisor / Chartered Tax Advisor of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka  (CASL);
or
 (VI) be a qualified person,
(i) having any of the following qualifications –
(a) Executive Level I Examination / Certificate in Accounting and Business (CAB) Level 1/ Certified
Business Accountant (CBA)
(b) Certificate in Business Accounting of Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA);
(c) Professional qualification foundation level of Association of Chartered Certified Accountants
(ACCA);
(d) Managerial Level (Level 03) Intermediate Level Certificate of the Certified Management Accoun-
tants of Sri Lanka of Institute of Certified Management Accountants of Sri Lanka (CMA);
(e) Membership of the Association of Accounting Technicians (AAT);
        and
(ii) has a post qualification experience of at least ten years in the field of accounting (not being self-
employed);
            and

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'09'23
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 23.09.2020
3A
4. has not been -
(a) adjudged by a competent Court to be of unsound mind; or
(b) adjudged as an insolvent or bankrupt, has not been granted by a competent Court, a certificate to that effect
that his insolvency or bankruptcy has arisen wholly or partly from inevitable losses or misfortunes; or
(c) convicted by a competent Court, whether in Sri Lanka or elsewhere, of any offence involving, moral turpitude;
or
(d) found guilty of professional misconduct; or
(e) accepted an employment in any capacity under any employer (other than in an audit firm), other than an
authorized representative approved under these regulations and carrying on business as an authorized
representative for the purposes of the Inland Revenue Act.
If the Commissioner General is satisfied that any individual applying for registration is entitled to be registered, he
shall register such individual and issue a letter certifying his registration. The Commissioner General may revoke his
certification and remove the registration from the “Register of Authorized Representatives” the name of any indi-
vidual if-
(I) such individual has made written request for such removal;
(II) such individual has become subject to any of the disabilities specified in any sub items of item 4 of this
schedule;
(III) by reason of any act, negligence, dishonesty or misconduct committed by such individual in his
professional capacity, the Commissioner General considers that the name of such individual should be
removed from the register.
The Commissioner General shall prepare a list of the authorized representatives registered under this notification to
be published in the Gazette at least once a year not later than the thirty first day of March of that year.
10 - 315
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.