

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.04.2011
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1700$4 - 2011 wfma%,a 05 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2011'04'05
No. 1700/4  -  TUESDAY   APRIL  05,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
STRATEGIC   DEVELOPMENT   PROJECTS  ACT,   No.  14 OF  2008
Notification under Section 3 (2)
BY  VIRTUE of the powers vested  in  me in terms of  Section 3 (2) of  the Strategic  Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008,
I,  Basil  Rohana Rajapaksa  Minister of Economic Development, being the Minister in charge of the subjects of Investment
and Tourism, do by this Notification–
(1) Identify as a Strategic Development Project for the purpose of the aforesaid Act, a Project to build a Luxury
Hotel as a Mixed Use Complex  including High Quality Residencies and a High- End Shopping Mall, in Fort
Colombo 1, in the Western Province, at a total investment of around US$ 283 Mn., being a project of national
interest  that project is likely to bring economic and Social benefits to the country and also change the
landscape  of  the country. The project company is Shangri - La Hotels Lanka (Private) Limited. ;
(2) Declare that the date of commencement of  the aforesaid project shall be the date on which the vacant and
clear possession of the 10 acres of land is given by the Government to the project company. The project
construction period shall be  forty two (42) months from the date of the commencement of  the project. The
date of commencement of commercial operation shall be forty two (42) months from the date of  the
commencement of the project ;
(3) Specify that for the purposes of the aforesaid project in terms of the Strategic Development Projects Act, the
exemptions set out in the Schedule to this Notification shall apply to the Project company.
SCHEDULE
1. The lnland Revenue Act, No. 10  of 2006 ;
- A ten (10) year  corporate income  tax holiday period under the lnland Revenue Act commencing from either the
first (01st) year in which the Company makes taxable profit or three (03) years after commencement of commercial
operations, whichever falls first, Thereafter, there will be a partial exemption granted equivalent to the rate of six
per centum (6%) which is half of the applicable tax rate for each year of assessment  for a further period of fifteen
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.04.2011
2A
(15) years immediately succeeding the last  date  of the tax exemption period. For avoidance of doubt, it is to be
noted that the general tax regime then prevailing shall be applicable in relation to the Company implementing the
project after the expiration of the twenty five (25) years as setout above.
- The tax on dividends distributed to shareholders out of profits shall be exempted from income tax during
the said ten (10) year tax exemption period and one (01) year thereafter.
- A five (05) year tax exemption from PAYE Tax shall be applicable for a Maximum number of twenty
(20) expatriate staff of  the Company.
- The Company shall be exempted from the payment of Withholding Tax.
(a) on interest on foreign loans taken  for capital expenditure ;
(b) on technical fees to consultants;
(c) on management fees, royalty payments and marketing fees. Provided  these payments are made to one of
the following subsidiaries of Shangri -La Asia Limited ;
* Shangri-La International Hotel Management Ltd - Hong Kong
* Shangri-La International Hotel Management - BV
* Shangri-La International Hotel Management (Pte) Ltd Singapore
Provided the fees will not exceed three per centum (3%) of gross operating  revenues by way of basic
management fees/ royalties, marketing fees will not exceed one point five per centum (1.5%) of gross
operating revenue and at ten per centum (10%) of  gross operating profits by way of incentive management
fees.
2. The Value Added Tax Act,  (V AT) No. 14 of 2002.
The payment of Value Added Tax (V AT) on the  importation of  project related goods and the local purchases
of project related goods and services  during the project Construction period.
3. The Finance Act.–  No. 11 of 2002, The Company shall be exempted from the payment of Port and Aviation
Levy (PAL) during the project Construction period.
4. Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235).- Exemption from Customs Duty will be applicable to all capital goods
imported in the name of the Company implementing the project during the construction period, in relation to
items so imported solely for the purposes of the Project.
B
ASIL ROHANA RAJAPAKSA, MP,
Minister of Economic Development.
Colombo,
5th  April  2011.
04 -603
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.