

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1881
1881
wxl 1"831 - 2013 Tlaf;dan¾ 04 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'10'04
No. 1,831 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 04, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1884
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1888
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,830 of 27.09.2013 was not published.
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 25th October, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 11th
October, 2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1882
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1883
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1884
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KURUNEGALA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 04th Nov ember,
2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
16th September, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kurunegala Polpithigama Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Hiriyala Hathpattuwa General, District Secretariat,
Division and Births and Deaths of Kurunegala.
Divigandahaya Korale Division
10–48
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
AMPARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1885
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 04th Nov ember,
2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
16th September, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Ampara Kalmunai Post of Additional Registrar of Muslim District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Marriages of Kalmunakudi Division General, District Secretariat,
and Births and Deaths of Kalmunakudi Ampara.
Division
10–49
–––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Amendment of Closing date of Applications for Recruitment of Registrar of Marriage of the
Registrar General's Department
MATARA  DISTRICT
IT is kindly notified that the closing date of application for recruitment for the post of Marriage Registrar, for the Division  appearing in
the following schedule which was pubilshed by me in the Gazette No. 1,818 of 05.07.2013 is extended as 04.11.2013.
02. Please note that all other details in the said Gazette notification remain unchanged.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Matara Akuressa Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Weligam Koralaya Division, Akuressa General, District Secretariat,
Area Matara.
10–154

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1886
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
KANDY   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 04th Nov ember,
2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
17th September, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy Y atinuwara Post of Birth and Death Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Medapalatha Division and Post of General, District Secretariat,
Marriage Registrar of Udapalatha Kandy.
(Kandyan/General)
10–153
–––––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  INFORMATION
Recruitment (on Contractual Basis) to Posts of Assistant
Editor (Sinhala/Tamil/English) in the Publication Unit
APPLICATIONS are called from qualified candidates for
recruitment to the posts of Assistant Editor (Sinhala/Tamil/English)
at the Publication Unit of the Department of Government
Information.
1. 'Director General' in this notice refers to the Director General
of Government Information.
2. Structured Examination.– The date of the examination will be
decided by the Director General of Information.
Fields considered in granting marks Maximum Mark
Additional Educational Qualifications 40
Additional Professional Qualifications 25
Additional Professional Experience 30
Skill demonstrated in the interview 05
Total 100

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1887
3. Number of appointments. – Steps will be taken to fill 05
vacancies of posts of Assistant Editor (Sinhala/Tamil/English) in
the Publication Unit of the Department of Government Information.
4. Effective date of appointments.– Will be decided by the Director
General of Government Information.
5. Service conditions.– Selected candidates will be appointed to
the post of Assistant Editor subject to general conditions governing
public service appointments, conditions and regulations in the
Recruitment Procedure of Assistant Editor (Sinhala/Tamil/English)
at the Publication Unit of the Department of Government
Information (on contractual basis) approved by the Public Service
Commission on 02.07.2013 and amendments already done and would
be done in the future to the Recruitment Procedure.
6. The Public Service Commission has the authority to cancel
the appointments of candidates who fail to assume duties on the
due date and/or who reject or avoid to assume duties.
7. Monthly allowance.– Rs. 21,000.
8 Qualifications.– At the closing date of applications :
(i) Educational Qualifications.– Obtaining a degree from a
university recognized by the University Grant
Commission or an institution recognized by the
University Grant Commission as a degree offering
institution.
(ii) Professional Qualifications .– Should have successfully
completed a Diploma course relevant to the respective
field  from an institution acknowledged by the
government, therein the course duration is not less than
one year.
(iii) Experience.– A  minimum 02 years experience on editing
related tasks at a recognized publishing institution will
be considered as a special qualification.
(iv) Physical Qualifications .– Each candidate should be
physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri
Lanka and to discharge duties of the post.
(v) Other :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(ii) Should possess an excellent character,
(iii) All qualifications in regard to the appointment to
the post should be duly completed.
9. Age.– Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 45
years of age.
10. Method of Application :
(a) Applications should be prepared according to the
specimen form of application attached to this notice
using both sides of an A4 sheet. Application should be
filled in with candidates own handwriting. Applications
that do not comply with the specimen form of
application and incomplete applications will be rejected
without notification. It will be useful to keep a
photocopy of the application. Candidate must check
whether the duly filled in application complies with the
specimen form of application. Otherwise, it may be
rejected.
(b) Completed applications should be sent by registered
post to reach the Department of Government
Information, No. 163, Kirulapona Avenue, Colombo 05
before 27.10.2013. "Recruitment to the post of
Assistant Editor at the Department of Government
Information on Contractual Basis" on the top left hand
corner of the envelope. In which the application form is
enclosed. Applications received after the closing date
will not be accepted.
(c) Incomplete applications in any manner will be rejected.
Complaints on misplacements or delays will not be
entertained.
11. If any candidate was found guilty of providing any false
information or suppressing any important information purposely,
he/she is liable to be dismissed.
12. Matters not covered by these regulations will be determined
by the Public Service Commission.
Director General of Government Information,
Powers Delegated by the Public Service Commission,
Department of Government Information.
Department of Government Information,
No. 163, Kirulapona Avenue,
Colombo 05,
12th September, 2013.
SPECIMEN  FORM  OF  APPLICATION
(For official use only)
R
ECRUITMENT (ON CONTRACTUAL BASIS) TO POSTS OF ASSISTANT EDITOR
(SINHALA/TAMIL/ENGLISH) AT THE PUBLICATION UNIT OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT INFORMATION
01. Medium :
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2
English - 3
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
02. Personal Information :
2.1 Name with initials in English block letters Mr./Mrs./
Miss :––––––––––.
(E.g.– SILV A, A. B.)

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1888
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
2.2 Name in full in English block letters :––––––––––.
2.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
2.4 Personal Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
2.5 Gender :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.6 Civil status :
Unmarried - 1
Married - 2
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.7 Ethnicity :
(Sinhala - 1,  Tamil - 2,  Ind. Tamil - 3,
Muslim - 4,  Other - 5)
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.8 National Identity Card No. :
2.9 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
2.10 T elephone Number (if available) :
3.0. Educational Qualifications :
University Degree Date of validation of Subjects
the degree
4.0. Professional Qualifications :
Institution Diploma Date of validation of Duration
the diploma
5.0. Experience :––––––––––.
6.0. Certification of the applicant :
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
10–60
DEPARTMENT  OF  EXCISE,  SRI  LANKA
Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to the
Post of Excise Inspector to be served in the Northern
Province
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan (male) citizens for
the post of Excise Inspector in the Department of Excise, Sri Lanka.
Applications prepared in 297mm x 210mm (A4) papers as per
the specimen form indicated in this notification should be sent to
the Commissioner General of Excise, Department of Excise. No.
34, W. A. D. Ramanayake Mawatha, Colombo 02 on or before
04.11.2013 by the registered post. "Application for the Post of
Excise Inspector" should be mentioned at the top left hand corner
of the envelope enclosing the application. Applications should be
completed and precise in all respects as indicated in the notification
and applications which are not so completed and precise and which
are not been received as at the specified date will be rejected without
any notice. Complaints regarding the loss of applications or
correspondence in that connection in the post will not be entertained.
The receipt of the applications will not be acknowledged.
01. Particulars regarding the general duties of the post. –
Operation and monitoring of junior officers and personal engagement
in the process of standarization of licit alcohols and prevention of
illicit alcohols/dangerous drugs under the respective ordinances and
other orders viz, execution of relevant functions in a certain
jurisdiction or a special unit or an excise station and execution of
raids in relation to excise crimes and execution of prevention activities
by the relevant officer himself and direction of junior officers in the
performance of such activities.
02. Salary scale.– Annual salary scale of this post is Rs. 15,850
-7x180 -2x240- 8 x320 x17 x 375 - Rs. 26,525 (Step 11) (Rs. 2-
2006A as per P. A. C. 6/2006 IV).
First Efficiency Bar Examination should have to be passed within
3 years from the date of appointment and Second Efficiency Bar
Examination should have to be passed within 6 years from the date
of appointment.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1889
03. Age limit.– Applicants should be not more than 35 years and
should be not less than 21 years as at 04.11.2013. If the officers
who are already serving in the Department of Excise possess other
qualifications, they can apply for the post as external applicants
without considering the maximum age limit.
04. Educational and Other Qualifications :
(i) The applicant should be a graduate of a recognized
university.
(ii) The applicant should have obtained two credit passes
for Mathematics and English Language at the G . C. E.
(Ordinary Level) Examination.
(iii) The minimum height measured bear footed should be
167.6cm (5 feet and 6 inches). The size of the chest
when exhaled should be 83.8cm (33 inches).
(iv) Applicants should possess a good moral character.
(v) Applicants should be physically fit enough to serve in
any part of the island.
(vi) Ap plicants sould be with the minimum eye sight of 6/6
and 6/12 including the eye sight of identifying goods
without using spectacles or contact lenses.
(vii) Priority will be given to applicants with talents in sports
and other extra curricular activities.
N. B.– Before appointing to posts, applicants are examined
to check their physical fitness.
05. Method of Recruitment. – Recruitment will be made from
among graduates on an Open Competitive Examination and on an
interview conducted giving due consideration to personal skills of
applicants. If it is found that the number of qualified applicants is
equal to or less than the number of existing vacancies, they will be
called to a structured interview without conducting a written
examination.
Particulars regarding the written examination.– Common Paper
(Duration : 2 hours, 100 marks).
It is expected to measure applicant's intelligence, logical thinking
ability and ability in decision making (Mathematical/Graphical
problems, writing of synonyms/antonyms, making phrases/
sentences and filling blanks will be included in the paper). This
examination will be conducted only in Tamil medium.
Structured interview.– The applicants who score 50% or more
marks at the written examination will be called for the interview as
per the number of existing vacancies. Qualified persons to be
appointed will be selected on the merit basis of total marks obtained
by applicants both in the written examination and interview.
Applicants should appear for the structured interview in Tamil
Medium.
Marks will be offered for the following qualifications at the
structured interview.
(i) Talents in sports. – For talents recorded in National,
Provincial, District, Divisional and School level
Competitions in different sports.
(ii) Special trainings.– For Cadet/V oluntary Service/Martial
Arts or technical training.
(iii) Other Extra Activities :
06. Examination fees .– Applicants should pay an amount of
Rs. 300 as the examination fees. Any bank draft obtained from any
of the bank branches after crediting it to the Account No.
0007041628 of the Commissioner General of Excise in the Taprobane
Branch of the Bank of Ceylon should be sent along with the
application. The applicants are advised to keep a photocopy of the
bank draft with them. The amount paid will not be refunded.
07. Training period.– A training period of three months will be
provided to selected applicants. The training of persons who are
unable to pass the examination conducted at the end of this period
will be terminated. If it is confirmed that the reasons for not passing
the examination by a certain applicant are beyond the control of the
relevant officer, the training period can be extended by three months
and the apprentice will be allowed to sit the examination again.
Trainees will be paid a combined monthly allowance of Rs. 3,000
during the training period.
08. Probation period. – Applicants who complete the training
successfully will be appointed as Excise Inspectors subject to a
probation period of three years. If they are able to get through the
Departmental Examinations that are prescribed to be passed by
them, they will be confirmed in the Post of Excise Inspector at the
end of the probation period. If it is confirmed that the reasons for
not passing the examination are beyond the control of the relevant
officer and if his conduct, service and attendance are satisfactory in
all respects, his probation period can be extended only up to a
maximum of two years for allowing him to pass the examination.
09. Conditions of the Employment :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable.
(ii) They can be directed to serve in any part of the island.
(iii) They should serve in the Northern Province for an
uninterrupted period of 10 years from the date of
appointment.
10. Service Conditions :
(i) Applicants qualified to be appointed should be abide by
the Official Language Law and rules and regulations that
are imposed by the Government from time to time.
B10 - B80771

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1890
(ii) Sections 10 - 12 of the Chapter II of the Establishments
Code will be applicable.
D. G. M. V . HAPUARACHCHI ,
Commissioner General of Excise,
Department of Excise, Sri Lanka.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
A
PPLICATION FOR THE POST OF EXCISE INSPECTORS IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF EXCISE
01. (i) Name in full (in mother language) :––––––––––––.
(ii) Name in full (in English) :––––––––––––.
(iii) Name with initials :––––––––––––.
02. (i) Permanent address :––––––––––––.
(ii) Divisional Secretary's Division :––––––––––––.
(iii) Grama Niladhari's Division :––––––––––––.
(iv) Police Station :––––––––––––.
(v) Nearest Excise Station/Office :––––––––––––.
03. Date of birth :––––––––––––.
Age as at 04.11.2013 :
Years :–––––––––,  Month s:–––––––––,  Days :––––––––.
04. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka (Indicate whether by birth or by
registration) :––––––––––––.
05. Nationality :––––––––––––.
06. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
07. Civil status :––––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
(i)
Name and year of University Subjects Class
the degree obtained
(ii) Passes in the G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) :
Year :––––––––––––. Year :––––––––––––.
Subjects passed Results Subjects passed Results
09. Give particulars if employed :––––––––––––.
10. Particulars regarding sports certificates and extra activities :
––––––––––––.
11. Particulars regarding other special training undergone/particulars
regarding voluntary services in forces :––––––––––––.
12. (i) Height :––––––––––––. cm (feet....... inches.........)
(ii) Size of chest (when exhaled) ..........cm
(feet........ inches........)
13. If convicted from any Court of Law for a Criminal offence,
particulars regarding the offence and the punishments received
:––––––––––––.
14. Name of the bank to which money is paid .............. Receipt
No. :––––––––––––.
Receipt should be firmly affixed here.
I certify that particulars mentioned in this application by me are
true and correct. I know that I will be disqualified if any particulars
indicated here are detected false or incorrect before the selection
and I will be subject to dismissal from the service without any
compensation if detected after being appointed to the post.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
10–149/1
–––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  EXCISE,  SRI  LANKA
Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to the
Post of Excise Guard/Woman Excise Guard to be served in
the Northern Province
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan  citizens for the post
of Excise Guard/Woman Excise Guard in the Department of Excise,
Sri Lanka.
Applications prepared in 297mm x 210mm (A4) papers as per
the specimen form indicated in this notification should be sent to
the Commissioner General of Excise, Department of Excise.
No. 34, W. A. D. Ramanayake Mawatha, Colombo 02 on or before
04.11.2013 by the registered post. "Application for the Post of
Excise Guards/Woman Excise Guards" should be mentioned at the
top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
Applications should be completed and precise in all respects as
indicated in the notification and applications which are not so
completed and precise and which are not been received as at the
specified date will be rejected without any notice. Complaints
regarding the loss of applications or correspondence in that
connection in the post will not be entertained.
The receipt of the applications will not be acknowledged.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1891
01. Particulars regarding the general duties of the post. – Field
duties should be conducted within the area assigned and investigation
and reporting of related information on Excise crimes including the
provision of assistance in such raids and in related Juridical
proceedings under the Excise Ordinance, Poisons, Opium and
Dangerous Drugs Ordinance, Tobacco Tax Act, No. 8 of 1999 and
National Authority Act of Tobacco and Alcohol No. 27 of 2006
which are under the purview of the Department of Excise. In
addition, updating of Excise criminal/technical reports and
documents including reserve duties of the office should be conducted.
02. Salary scale.– Annual salary scale of this post is Rs. 14,280
- 7x145 -10x180 -17x 240 - Rs. 21,175 (Rs. 1-2006A as per P. A. C.
6/2006 IV).
(The Efficiency Bar Examinations should have to be passed
within 3 years from the date of appointment).
03. Age limit.– Applicants should be not more than 30 years and
not less than 18 years as at 04.11.2013. If the officers who are
serving in the Department of Excise are qualified, they can apply
for the post as external applicants without considering the maximum
age limit.
04. Educational and Other Qualifications :
(i) The applicant should have passed the G . C. E. (Ordinary
Level) Examination in one sitting with six subjects
including English Language and with two credit passes
for Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics.
(ii) The minimum height for Excise Guards measured bear
footed should be 5 feet and 6 inches. The size of the
chest when exhaled should be 33 inches. The height for
Woman Excise Guards should be 5 feet and 2 inches.
(iii) Ap plicants should be with the minimum eye sight of 6/
6 and 6/12 including the eye sight of identifying goods
without using spectacles or contact lenses.
(iv) Applicants should possess a good moral character. Female
applicants should be unmarried. Woman Excise Guards
who are recruited will not be allowed to marry until they
complete the probation period and until they are
confirmed in the post.
(v) Applicants should be physically fit enough to serve in
any part of the island.
(vi) Priority will be given to applicants with talents in sports
and other extra curricular activities.
N. B.– Before appointing to posts, applicants are examined
to check whether they are physically fit.
05. Method of Recruitment. – Recruitment will be made on an
Open Competitive Examination conducted in Tamil medium and on
an interview conducted giving due consideration to personal skills
of applicants. If it is found that the number of qualified applicants
is equal to or less than the number of existing vacancies, they will
be called to a structured interview without conducting a written
examination.
Particulars regarding the written examination :
Intelligence Test - 01 hour (100 marks).
General Knowledge - 01 hour (100 marks)
Structured interview.– The applicants who score 50% or more
marks at the written examination will be called for the interview as
per the number of existing vacancies. Qualified persons to be
appointed will be selected on the merit basis of total marks obtained
by applicants both in the written examination and interview.
Applicants should appear for the structured interview in Tamil
Medium.
Marks will be offered for the following qualifications at the
structured interview.
(i) Talents in sports. – For talents recorded in National,
Provincial, District, Divisional and School level
Competitions regarding different sports.
(ii) Special trainings.– For Cadet/V oluntary Service/Martial
Arts or technical training.
(iii) Other Extra Activities :
06. Examination fees .– Applicants should pay an amount of
Rs. 300 as the examination fees. Any bank draft obtained from any
of the bank branches to be credited to the Account No. 0007041628
of Commissioner General of Excise in the Taprobane Branch of the
Bank of Ceylon should be sent along with the application. The
applicants are advised to keep a photocopy of the bank draft with
them. The amount paid will not be refunded.
07. Training period.– A training period of three months will be
provided to selected applicants. The training of persons who could
not pass the examination conducted at the end of this period will be
terminated. If it is confirmed that the reasons for not passing the
examination by a certain applicant are beyond the control of the
relevant officer, the training period can be extended by three months
and the apprentice will be allowed to sit the examination again.
Trainees will be paid a combined monthly allowance of Rs. 3,000
during the training period.
08. Probation period. – Applicants who complete the training
successfully will be appointed as Excise Guards subject to a
probation period of three years. If they are able to get through the
Departmental Examinations that are prescribed to be passed by
them, they will be confirmed in the Post of Excise Guard/Woman
Excise Guard at the end of the probation period. If it is confirmed
that the reasons for not passing the examination are beyond the
control of the relevant officer and if his conduct, service and
attendance are satisfactory in all respects, his probation period can
be extended only up to a maximum of two years for allowing him to
pass the examination.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1892
09. Conditions of the Employment :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable.
(ii) They shall be directed to serve in any part of the island.
10. Service Conditions :
(i) Applicants qualified to be appointed should be abide by
the Official Language Law and rules and regulations that
are imposed by the Government from time to time.
(ii) Sections 10 - 12 of the Chapter II of the Establishments
Code will be applicable.
(iii) The applicants qualified to be appointed shall serve in
the Northern Province for an uninterrupted period of 10
years from the date of his appointment.
D. G. M. V . H
APUARACHCHI ,
Commissioner General of Excise,
Department of Excise, Sri Lanka.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
A
PPLICATION FOR THE POST OF EXCISE GUARDS/WOMAN EXCISE
GUARDS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF EXCISE
01. (i) Name in full (in mother language) :––––––––––––.
(ii) Name in full (in English) :––––––––––––.
(iii) Name with initials :––––––––––––.
02. (i) Permanent address :––––––––––––.
(ii) Divisional Secretary's Division :––––––––––––.
(iii) Grama Niladhari's Division :––––––––––––.
(iv) Police Station :––––––––––––.
(v) Nearest Excise Station/Office :––––––––––––.
(vi) Postal address :––––––––––––.
(For sending admissions)
03. Date of birth :––––––––––––.
Age as at 04.11.2013 :
Years :–––––––––,  Month :–––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
04. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka (Indicate whether by birth or by
registration :––––––––––––.
05. Nationality :––––––––––––.
06. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
07. Civil status :––––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
(i) Passes in the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) :
Year :––––––––––––. Year :––––––––––––.
Subjects passed Grade Subjects passed Grade
09. Employments obtained or training courses followed after
leaving school :
Name of the Period Institution If employed
employment or course From     To reason for
leaving
10. Particulars regarding sports certificates and extra activities  :
––––––––––––.
11. Particulars regarding other special training undergo/particulars
regarding voluntary services in forces :––––––––––––.
12. (i) Height :––––––––––––. cm (feet....... inches.........)
(ii) Chest (when exhaled) ...........cm (inches.........)
13. If convicted from any Court of Law for a Criminal offence,
particulars regarding the offence and the punishments received
:––––––––––––.
14. Name of the bank to which money is paid .............. Receipt
No. :––––––––––––.
Receipt should be firmly affixed here.
15. I certify that particulars mentioned in this application by me
are true and correct. I know that I will be disqualified if any
particulars indicated here are detected false or incorrect before
the selection and I will be subject to dismissal from the service
without any compensation if detected after being appointed to
the post.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
10–149/2

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1893
MINISTRY  OF  ECONOMIC  DEVELOPMENT
Department of  Agrarian  Development
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT  TO GRADE III OF AGRICULTURE
RESEARCH AND PRODUCTION ASSISTANT IN
THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRARIAN
DEVELOPMENT 2012(2013)
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from citizens of Sri Lanka
who possess the following qualifications to fill the vacancies of
Agriculture Research and Production Assistant Grade III in the
Department of Agrarian Development of the Ministry of Economic
Development.
01. Application Form .– Application should be prepared on an
A4 size sheet and the cages 01 to 07 should be on the first page and
the cages 08 to 12 should be on the second page and the rest cages
should be on the third page. The relevant information should be
filled in his/her own handwriting. Applications not confirming to
the specimen application form will be rejected without any notice
(pleased keep a photocopy of application for future reference).
The completed applications should be sent under registered cover
to "Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and
Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of Examination,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla". On or before 28.10.2013. The words
"Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to Grade III of
Agriculture Research and Production Assistant in the Department
of Agrarian Development 2012(2013)". When preparing the
application the name of the examination mentioned at the top of the
application should be indicated in English in addition to Sinhala or
Tamil Languages. Candidates who are already in the Public Service
should send their applications through respective Heads of
Department. Late and incomplete application will be rejected.
Candidates should prepare their applications by the language medium
wish to be answered in the Examinations. Examination will be held
in the following districts :
A
NNEXURE - I
District District No.
Colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Kandy 04
Matale 05
Nuwara Eliya 06
Galle 07
Matara 08
Hambanthota 09
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Vavuniya 12
Mullaitivu 13
Kilinochchi 14
Batticaloa 15
Ampara 16
Trincomalee 17
Kurunegala 18
Puttalam 19
Anuradhapura 20
Polonnaruwa 21
Badulla 22
Monaragala 23
Rathnapura 24
Kegalle 25
Examination will be held in the districts throughout the island
mentioned in the annexure I hereto.In the event of a certain
examination centre is not established in a certain district due to
insufficient candidates, they are referred to a centre as per their
second choice and if the second choice too cannot be granted they
are referred to a centre closest to that district. Changes will not be
allowed later with regard to the requested district.
02. Conditions of Service :
2.1 This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected
candidates should contribute to Widow's and Orphan
Pension Fund.
2.2 Selected candidates will be subjected to the provisions
indicated in Section 10-12, Chapter II in Establishments
Code and Procedural Rules in respect of appointment in
Public Service.
2.3 Selected candidates should be subjected to the
Establishments and Financial Regulations and orders
issued from time to time by the Government and
instructions issued by the department.
03. Other Qualifications :
3.1 Candidates must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
3.2 Candidates should have a good character and physically
fit to work.
3.3 Selected candidates are liable to serve in any parts of the
island.
3.4 Applicants should not be less than 18 and more than 30
years of age as at the closing date of the applications the
upper age limit will not be applicable for applicants who
are already in the Public and Provincial Public Service.
04. Educational Qualifications :
(i) Should pass G. C. E. (O/L) in one sitting in six subjects
with credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil/English and
Mathematics and two other subjects ;
and
(ii) Should pass G. C. E. (A/L) at least one subject (other
than General Test).
District District No.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1894
05. Method of Examination Procedure :
5.1 The examination will be consist of two question papers.
The candidates should secured at least 40% or more for
each paper to pass the examination. The priority list for
recruitment will be prepared on the aggregate of marks
obtained by candidates.
5.2 Subjects of the examination :
(i) Intelligence Test
Duration – 1 hour - Marks 100
(ii) General Knowledge for Agriculture
Duration - 1 hour - Marks 100
Syllabus :
(i) Intelligence Test :
This paper will consist of 50 questions designed to
test the candidate's ability in language,
comprehension, Mathematical problems, logical
thinking and general knowledge. This paper will
consist of multiple choice of question.
(ii) General Knoweldge for Agriculture :
This paper will consist of 50 questions designed to
test the knowledge of the candidate on matters
relating to climate, weather, crops, soil, agrarian
services consumption, import of food, surplus of
food, modern agricultural techniques, consumption
of water. This paper will consist of multiple choice
questions.
5.3 This test will be conducted in Sinhala and Tamil medium
and candidates should answer in the examination to all
question papers in one language. Candidates should not
be allowed to change the language.
06. Salary Scale (Monthly) :
MN-1-2006 A under Public Administration Circular
(06/2006 IV) Rs. 13,120 - 10x145 - 11x170 - 10x240 -
10x320 - Rs. 22,040.
07. Procedure of Promotion.– Promotion to the immediate grade
will be in relevant to the recruitment to the post of Agricultural
Researches and Production Assistant Service minute.
08. Examination Fee.– Examination fee is Rs. 500. A candidate
should pay this amount to the nearest Agrarian Services Centers
and it returns the receipt of A. S. C. 2(a) should be pasted firmly to
the relevant cage of the application form. A photocopy should be
retained for future reference. The fee will not be refunded in any
circumstances.
09. Implementation Official Languages policy.– Candidates who
are appointed after 01-07-2007 should obtain proficiency in second
official language before the lapse of 05 years from the appointment
as per Public Administration Circular No. 7/2007 dated 28.04.2007.
10. Attestation.– Candidate's identity should be attested by a
Principal of a Government School, Justice of the Peace,
Commissioner for Oaths, Notary Public, a Comissioned Officer in
the Armed Forces, an officer holding a Gazette post in the Police
Service or an officer holding a permanent staff grade post in the
Public Service.
11. Sitting for examination .– As soon as admission cards are
issued to the applicants, newspaper notice will be published by the
Department of Examination. Candidates who do not receive
admissions card even after 2 or 3 dates from the date of applications
of the notice should inform the Department of the Examination as
mentioned in the notice. It would be effective to make inquiries in
that regard from the Department of Examination with the following
particulars : certified photocopy of the application and the receipt,
registered post article receipt, your letter of request, easting the fax
number wish the admission card should be send if the candidate is
resident out of Colombo.
12. The issue of an admission card to sit for the examination
shall not be treated as acceptance that a candidate has fulfilled the
necessary qualifications for this post.
13. Candidates are required to produce to the supervisor any
one of the following documents in order to prove their identity :
(i) Valid National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons,
(ii) A valid passport.
14. All candidates are bound to abide by the rules imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examinations and act in conformity
with the general rules and regulations set out in the Gazette. A
candidate who violates any of this rules is liable to a punishment at
the discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
M. A. S. Weerasinghe,
Commissioner General of Agrarian Development.
Department of Agrarian Development,
P. O. Box 537,
Colombo 07,
11th of September, 2013.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1895
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
(For office use only)
DEPARTMENT OF AGRARIAN SERVICES
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT
TO GRADE III OF AGRICULTURE RESEARCH AND
PRODUCTION ASSISTANT IN THE DEP ARTMENT OF
AGRARIAN DEVELOPMENT 2012(2013)
* Language medium :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
District and District Number :
(According to the annexure 1 of the Gazette)
District District No.
1
2
1. (i) Name with initials :––––––––––.
(In English block capitals) Eg.– PERERA, A. B. C.
(ii) Name in full :––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
(iii) Name in full :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2. N. I. C. Number :
3. (i) Permanent address :––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
(ii) Address to which the admission card should be sent :
––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
4. (i) Sex : Male - 0
Female - 1
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
5. (i) Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(ii) Age as at closing date of application :
Years : Months : Dates :
6. Civil status :
Married - 1
Single - 2
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
7. Telephone Number :
8. Particulars of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination (Please attach the
photocopies) :
(i) Year and Month of the examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
16
27
38
49
51 0
9. Particulars of G. C. E. (A/L) Examination (Please attach the
photocopies) :
(i) Year and Month of the examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade
1
2
3
4
10. Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination fee :
(i) Office to which the payment was made :––––––––––.
(ii) Number and the date of receipt :––––––––––.
(iii) Amount :––––––––––.
Receipt is to be affixed here so as not to be detached
11.Declaration of the applicant :
I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the
informatioon given in this form is true and correct. I also agree to be
bound by the rules governing the examination and any decision that
may be taken to cancel my candidature prior or after the examination
without any compensation, if found that I am ineligible according
to the rules and regulations of the examination. Further I declare I
agree to abide by the regulations of this examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1896
12. Attestation :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................. is
personality known to me and he/she placed his/her signature in my
presence on this ................ day of ...............
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Attester.
Specimen signature of applicant :
Attesters full name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
(If the applicant is employed in the Public Service or Provincial
Public Service the certificate given below should be completed
by the Head of the Department).
13. Certificate of the Head of the Department :
I hereby certify that the candidate Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................
is service in this office and the particulars furnished in this form are
true and correct. He/She service as a ................. since ..................
and his/her work is satisfactory. If he/she is selected for the
appointment, he/she will be released/not released from the present
post.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department.
(Stamp)
Full name of the Attesting Officer :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
Annexure 01
SELECT THE TOWN'S NUMBER IN WHICH EXAMINATION CENTERS WILL BE
ESTABLISHED FROM THE FOLLOWING TABLE
Province District District No.
Western Colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kaluthra 03
Central Kandy 04
Matale 05
Nuwara Eliya 06
South Galle 07
Matara 08
Hambanthota 09
North Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Vavuniya 12
Mullativu 13
Kilinochchi 14
Eastern Batticaloa 15
Ampara 16
Trincomalee 17
North Western Kurunegala 18
Puttalam 19
North Central Anuradhapura 20
Polonnaruwa 21
Uva Badulla 22
Monaragala 23
Sabaragamuwa Rathnapura 24
Kegalle 25
10–41
––––––––––––––––
EFFICIENCY  BAR   EXAMINATION  FOR
PROMOTION  OF OFFICERS  IN  CLASS  II  OF
PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS'  SERVICE  TO
CLASS  I – 2012 (2013)
IT is hereby notified that the qualifying examination for promotion
of officers in Class II of Public Management Assistants' Service to
Class I will be held in the three languages, i. e. Sinhala, Tamil and
English by the Commissioner General of Examinations in January,
2014.
2.0 Examination for promotion of officers in Class II of Public
Management Assistants' Service to Class I will be held at the centers
in Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullativu,
Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, Anuradhapura, Badulla,
Ratnapura and Kilinochchi. The towns and their numbers are given
below :
Town Town Number
Colombo 01
Kandy 05
Galle 07
Matara 08
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Mullaitivu 12
Trincomalee 14
Batticaloa 15
Kurunegala 18
Anuradhapura 19
Badulla 21
Ratnapura 24
Killinochchi 25
Any center without a sufficient number of candidates will be
cancelled. It will not be allowed to change the "town" indicated in
the application form subsequently.
Province District District No.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1897
3.0. (i) This examination will be held by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and candidates are bound by
the rules and regulations stipulated by him in respect of
holding this examination. Issuance of an admission card
to a candidate should not be regarded as an acceptance
of his/her eligibility to sit the examination.
(ii) A set of rules and regulations for the candidates is
published separately in the Gazette notification. Any
candidate who violates these rules and regulations will
be liable to a punishment imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations.
(iii) The decision of the Commissioner General of
Examinations shall be the final decision regarding holding
examination and issuance of results.
(iv) The post and service station of the candidate, at the
time he/she applies for the examination will be applicable
for all matters relating to the examination and any
changes which occur in the post and service station
after sending the application will not be considered.
4.0. Candidates are required to satisfy following qualifications
to sit the examination :
(i) Should be an officer who has completed in active service
of ten years (10) in Class II of Public Management
Assistants' Service and a satisfactory service of five
(05) years as at the closing date of applications.
(ii) Should have passed the efficiency bar examination held
for officers in Class II of Public Management Assistants'
Service.
Note.– The date of examination will be reckoned as the date
on which the successful candidates qualify for promotion
to Class I of the Service. However, any candidate who
passes the examination without possessing above
qualifications will be treated as ineligible for promotion
to Class I.
5.0. Scheme of Examination. – Candidates should sit a written
examination consisting of the following subjects :
Subject Marks Duration
(i) Establishments Procedure 100 1 1/2 hours
(ii) Public Finance Management 100 1 1/2 hours
(iii) Case Study 100 1 hour
(iv) General Paper
100 1 hour
Total 400
Establishment Procedure. – A practical knowledge on matters
contained in V olume I and II of the Establishments Code is expected
of the candidate. This paper consists of two parts.
Part I  - 08 questions that require short (25 marks)
answers
Part II - Answers should be supplied to 03 (75 marks)
out of 04 semi-structured type
questions
Public Finance Management.– The objective of this paper is to
test the following. It consists of two parts :
(a) Practical knowledge on financial regulations.
(b) Basic knowledge on auditing.
(c) Basic bank practice.
(d) Basic knowledge on store keeping.
Part I  - 08 questions that require short (25 marks)
answers
Part II - Answers should be supplied to 03 (75 marks)
out of 4 semi-structured type questions.
Case study.– Candidates are required to answer a multiple choice,
short answers and semi-structured essay type paper designed to
analyze measures to be taken to a problem relating to office
administration. Cases for study will be provided and the question
to be answered will be as follows :
Part I  - 05 multiple choice type questions (05 marks)
Part II - 05 questions that require short (05 marks)
answers
Part III - semi-structured type questions (90 marks)
General Paper.– The objective of this paper is to test the General
knowledge of the candidates on current affairs, both local and
international. The paper consists of three parts :
Part I  - 32 multiple choice type questions (16 marks)
Part II - Short notes should be provided under (36 marks)
two topics out of the four (04) given
Part III- Answers should be provided for 02 (48 marks)
essay type questions out of the
four (04) given
Note :
(i) Candidates should select the language medium of entry
to the service or any other official language as the language
medium of the examination. The language medium of
examination indicated initially shall not be allowed to
change subsequently.
(ii) Candidate should score a minimum of 40 percent (40%)
of marks in each subject and an aggregate of 160 or more
to pass the examination.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1898
6.0 The Department of Examination will issue the result sheet
including the results of all the candidates who have sat for the
examination to the Director General of Combined Services, Ministry
of Public Administration and Home Affairs. The lists of names of
the candidates who have passed the examination will be published
in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka .
7.0 Applications should be in the form of the specimen
appended to this notification and should be prepared by the
candidate him/herself. Application prepared thus by the candidate
should be sent through the respective Head of Department by
registered post to the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch, Sri Lanka
Examinations Department, Pelawatta, Battaramulla , so as to
reach him/her on or before 04th November 2013. A certificate to
prove the satisfactory service of the officer should be sent along
with the application. The respective Head of Department should
satisfy him/herself that the application has been perfected accurately
and the service certificate has been duly signed by him/her self. The
top-left corner of the envelope containing the application should
clearly bear the name of the examination. Applications received
after the closing date will be rejected.
8.0. Identification of Candidates.–  Candidates are required to
prove their identity in the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they appear. For this purpose, any one
of the following documents should be submitted to the supervisor :
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registrations of Persons ;
(ii) A valid Passport.
Candidature of any candidate who fails to submit any one of the
above, can be cancelled by the Commissioner General of
Examinations at his discretion.
9.0. Applications.– Application form should be prepared in the
language medium in which the candidate intends to sit the examination
on a paper of "A4" size in such a way that headings number 1.1 to
1.9 appear on the first page. Application form may be typewritten
but should be filled clearly and legibly by the candidate himself in
his own handwriting. It is compulsory to indicate the title of the
examination appearing the specimen in English language, too, on
both Sinhala and Tamil application forms. Applications that do not
comply with the specimen and that have not been perfected properly
will be rejected without notice. It is the responsibility of the candidate
to make sure that the application form perfected by him/herself
complies with the specimen given in the examination notice and
further it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed
application form.
Candidates who are sitting this examination for the first time
need not to pay examination fees. However, at consequent sittings,
candidates are required to paste stamps to the value of Rs. 400 on
the application for each sitting and to cancel them duly by placing
signature and date. This should be paid at any District/Divisional
Secretariats in the island to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-
13 of Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt should
be affixed in the relevant cage. it would be advisable to keep a
photocopy of the receipt. Under no circumstances, this fee will be
refunded or transferred in respect of another examination.
The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue copies
of the timetable and admission cards for the examination to all
candidates who have sent in duly completed applications before
the closing date of applications. Candidates should get their signature
on the admission card attested in advance and surrender to the
supervisor of the examination hall. Candidates without admission
cards will not be permitted to sit for the examination. A notification
will be published in newspapers by the Department of Examinations
as soon as the admission cards are issued to candidates. If the
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such
advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the Department of
Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would
be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the
Department of Examinations : i. e. A copy of the application form
kept at your possession, copy of the receipt obtained at payment
of Examination fee, name, address, national identity card number
and the name of the examination. In case of the applicants outside
Colombo, letter of the request furnishing the above particulars and
a fax number to which a copy of the admission card is to be send to
the Department of Examination through fax.
10.0. Heads of Departments should grant duty leave to candidates
to whom admission cards have been issued by the Commissioner
General of Examinations enabling them to present themselves at
the examination. Travelling expenses will not be paid in this respect.
11.0. The decision of the Director General of Combined Services
will be final, in respect of any matter not provided for in this
examination notice.
12.0. In case where an inconsistency or contradiction is observed
among the Sinhala, Tamil and English phrases in this circular, the
Sinhala phrase shall be the final.
K. V . P. M. J. G
AMAGE,
Director General of Combined Services.
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affiars.
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
17th September, 2013.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1899
Specimen  Application Form
EXAMINA TION FOR PROMOTION OF OFFICERS IN
CLASS II OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS'
SERVICE TO CLASS I – 2012(2013)
(For office use only)  
Language Medium of Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage. It will not be allowed to
change this subsequently)
Town Town No.
(Indicate the town and the corresponding number in which you
intend to sit the examination, as per para. 2.0 of the Gazette
notification.)
1.0 1.1 Name with Initials :
Mr./Mrs./Miss :———––—.
(In English block capitals) Eg : SUNIL A. B.
1.2 Name with Initials :——––——.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 Names denoted by Initials :——––——.
(In English block capitals)
1.4 Names denoted by Initials :———––—.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.5 Have you changed your name after entering the Public
Service ? If so, indicate the previous name :——––—.
1.6 Place of work and address :
1.6.1 Names and Address of the Office/Department/
Institution :———––––—.
(In English Block Capital )
1.6.2 Names and the Address of Office/Department/
Institution :———––––—.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.7 Sex :
Female – 1
Male – 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
1.8 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
1.9 National Identity Card No. :
2.0  Present Post :
2.1 Post :——––——.
2.2 Number and the date of the Appointment Letter :——.
2.3 Date of entry to Class II of above service :
Year : Month : Date :
2.4 Have you earned all increments during the period of
your service ? If not, give particulars :––––––––––.
2.5 If you have suffered any punishment whatsoever state
particulars in brief :––––––––––.
2.6 If you have been released for service in a corporation or
any Statutory Board, furnish such particulars :–––––.
2.7 If you have availed yourself of no pay leave for
employment abroad or any other purpose, furnish such
particulars :––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :–––.
3.2 If not, value of the cash receipt (affixed) :——––——.
Office in which examination fee was paid :
Receipt No. :––––––––––. Date :––––––––––.
If you are not sitting the examination for the first time,
affix the cash receipt of Rs. 400, paid as the examination fee.
4.0 Declaration of candidate :
I do hereby declare that,
(i) The above particulars furnished by me are true and
correct to my knowledge and faith and,
(ii) I am an officer in class II of Public Management
Assistants' Service and I have been appointed to Class
II of Public Management Assistants' Service on ..........
and,
(iii) I have completed a 10 years active period of service as
at 04th November 2013 and 5 years satisfactory period
of the service on that date and,
(iv) I am sitting the examination for the first time/cash receipt
has been affixed.
I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are
found to be false and incorrect, I am liable to disciplinary action
taken against me. I agree to abide by the rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on
conducting of this examination.
————,
Signature of the Candidate.
(See the footnote)
Date :————.
B10 - B80771

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1900
Note.- 1. Period of service in Class II/II"A" of General Clerical
Service or its paralled services before absorption to
the Public Management Assistants' Service should be
taken into account when computing the period of
service in Class II of Public Management Assistants'
Service.
2. The applicant should place his/her signature in the
presence of the relevant Head of Department or an
officer authorized to do so on behalf of him.
A
TTESTATION OF THE SIGNA TURE
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .....................................
who serves at my office is personally known to me and that he/she
signed in my presence on ...........................
—–––––––––———,
Signature of the person attesting
and official frank.
.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
C
ERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I certify that,
(i) Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... has completed a 10 years
period in class II of Public Management Assistants'
Service as at 04th November 2013 and ;
He/she is eligible to sit the examination as per the
notification published in the Gazette of Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka dated 04th October, 2013 ;
(ii) Number of the appointment letter of class II is .............
(Indicate number of the appointment letter) as per
his/her personal file and ;
(iii) The particulars furnished by him/her in Chapter 1.0 to
4.0 above, have been checked and found to be correct
and ;
(iv) He/she is sitting the examination for the first time/cash
receipt of the fees for the relevant examination has been
affixed.
(Delete words inapplicable).
————,
Signature of Head of Department
and Official Frank.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
10-99/2
EXAMINATION  FOR  PROMOTION  OF  OFFICERS  IN
CLASS  III  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS'
SERVICE INTO  CLASS  II  OF  THE
SERVICE – 2012 (2013)
IT is hereby notified that the qualifying examination for promotion
of officers in Class III of Public Management Assistants' Service
into Class II of the service will be held in all three languages,
i. e. Sinhala, Tamil and English, in the month of January 2014 by
the Commissioner-General of Examinations. The medium for
application will not be allowed to change. The decision of the
Commissioner General of Examinations shall be the final decision
regarding holding examination and issuance of results.
2.0 This examination for promotion of officers in Class III of
Public Management Assistants' Service into Class II of the service
will be held in Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar,
Mullativu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, Anuradhapura,
Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi. The list of Towns with their
respective Town Numbers is given below :
Town Town Number
Colombo 01
Kandy 05
Galle 07
Matara 08
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Mullativu 12
Trincomalee 14
Batticaloa 15
Kurunegala 18
Anuradhapura 19
Badulla 21
Ratnapura 24
Killinochchi 25
Any center without a sufficient number of candidates shall be
cancelled and the remaining candidates will be assigned to the next
nearest center. It will not be allowed to change the town applied for
subsequently.
3.0. (i) This examination will be held by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and candidates are bound by
the rules and regulations stipulated by him in respect of
holding this examination. Issuance of an admission card
to a candidate should not be regarded as an acceptance
of his/her eligibility to sit the examination.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been
separately printed in the Gazette notification. Candidates
will be subjected to any punishment imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations for violation of
these rules and regulations.
(iii) The post and service station of the candidate, at the
time he/she applies for the examination will be applicable

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1901
for all matters relating to examination and any changes
which occur in the past and service station after sending
the application will not be considered.
4.0. Eligibility.– Officers in Class III of the service, who have
been confirmed in their posts before 04th November 2013 and who
have completed an active service period of 04 years within which a
period of satisfactory service has been completed, are eligible to
appear for this examination :
Note.– The date of qualifying for promotion to Class II of
the Service of an officer will be the date the officer passed
the examination or the date in which he/she complete 05
years of active and satisfactory service, whichever occurs
later.
5.0. Scheme of Examination. – The subjects of the examination
and the marks assigned to each subject are given below. Marks will
be deducted for bad handwriting and spelling mistakes. Candidates
whose handwriting is illegible are liable to be disqualified  :
Subject Marks Duration
(i) Establishments Procedure 100 02 hours
(ii) F inancial Systems 100 02 hours
(iii) General Paper 100 01 hour
Establishment Procedure.– The objective of this question paper
is to test the proficiency of experience obtained in office activities
and to test the knowledge on office systems adopted in government
offices to cover subject fields such as principles of office procedures,
importance of office procedures, written communication, filing
methods and preparation of forms etc. This paper will consist of a
section to test the knowledge of candidate on matters indicated in
volume 01 of the Establishments Code. The paper will consist of
two parts.
Part I  - 25 questions of multiple choice type
30 minutes (25 marks)
Part II - Candidates are required to answer 03 out of 04
semi-structured type questions
1 1/2 hours (75 marks)
Financial Systems .– The question paper will be as follows :
(a) Part I - Exercises on adding and subtraction
15 minutes (25 marks)
(b) Part II - 05 semi-structured questions to test the
candidates' knowledge and understanding of
subjects such as Financial Control exercised in
government offices, Departments and
Ministries, Custody of Finance, receipts and
payments, budgetary estimations, supplies,
work and service (50 marks)
(c) Part III - 03 structured questions to test the knowledge
of candidate on basics of inspection and storing
of goods (25 marks)
Note.– Candidates will not be allowed to use calculators for
adding exercises.
General Paper.– This paper is designed to test the ability of the
candidate to read and understand a statement or minutes of
discussion and prepare a report and/or a letter and also to test the
ability of the candidate to understand and analyze the current social
affairs. This paper will consist of two parts :
Part I  - Candidates are required to answer 02 questions
given from a paragraph or a certain problem (45
marks)
Part II - Three semi structured type questions will be given
and candidates are requried to answer 02 questions.
The question for which writing short notes is
compulsory.
Compulsory Question (short notes) 30 marks
Other questions
25 marks
Total 55 marks
Note :
(i) The candidates should answer these question papers in
the language medium in which they sat the entry
examination to the service or any other official language.
(ii) To qualify in these subjects, candidates will be required
to obtain a minimum of 33 percent (33%) of the marks in
each of these papers and an average of 40 percent (40%)
of the marks in all three papers in one sitting.
6.0 The Department of Examination will issue the result sheet
including the results of all the candidates who have sat for the
examination to the Director General of Combined Services, Ministry
of Public Administration and Home Affairs. The lists of names of
the candidates who have passed the examination will be published
in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
7.0 The application for this examination should be in the form
of the specimen appended to this notification. Applicants should
prepare the applications themselves according to the specimen.
Applications prepared thus should be sent by the registered post
through the respective Heads of Departments to reach the
Commissioner - General of Examinations, Department of
Examinations, Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Pelawatte, Battaramulla on or before 04th November 2013. Heads
of Departments must ensure that each application is completed in
every respect and that they have signed the service certificate
appended to the application form. The name of the examination
should be indicated in the top-left hand corner of the envelope.
Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
8.0. Identity of Candidates.– Candidates will be required to prove
their identity in the examination hall to the satisfaction of the

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1902
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, one of the
following documents should be submitted to the supervisor :
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registrations of Persons ;
(ii) A valid Passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above
mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
9.0. Applications.– Applications should be prepared in papers
of "A4" size in such a manner that para Nos. 1.0 to 4.0 appear on
the first page and remaining numbers in other pages. The application
could be typewritten but should be filled in correctly and legibly
by candidate's own handwriting. It is compulsory to indicate the
title of the examination appearing the specimen in English language,
too, on both Sinhala and Tamil application forms. It is the
responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the application
form perfected by him/herself complies with the specimen given in
the examination notice and further it would be advisable to keep a
photocopy of the completed application form.
The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time
need not pay examination fees. However, the examination fee for
subsequent sittings is Rs. 400. The exam fees should be paid to any
District or Divisional Secretariat to be credited to revenue Head
2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examination and the
receipt obtained to the name of candidate should be affixed in the
relevant place of the application. It would be useful to keep a
photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. Under any
circumstances, this fee will not be refunded or transferred in respect
of any other examination.
The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue copies
of the timetable and admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been received.  Candidates should get their
signature on the admission card attested in advance and surrender
to the supervisor of the examination hall. Candidates without
admission cards will not be permitted to sit for the examination. A
notification will be published in newspapers by the Department of
Examinations as soon as the admission cards are issued to candidates.
If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such
advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the Department of
Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would
be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the
Department of Examinations : i. e. A copy of the application form
kept at your possession, copy of the receipt obtained at payment
of Examination fee, name, address, national identity card number
and the name of the examination. In case of the applicants outside
Colombo, letter of the request furnishing the above particulars and
a fax number to which a copy of the admission card is to be send to
the Department of Examination through fax.
10.0. The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner General of Examinations to enable them to appear
for the examination. No travelling expenses will be paid.
11.0. For the purpose of the Official Languages Policy, all the
candidates should prepare and fill their applications in the official
language.
12.0. The decision of the Director General of Combine Services
will be final in any matter not provided for in this notification.
K. V . P. M. J. G
AMAGE,
Director General of Combined Services.
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
17th September, 2013.
(For office use only)  
Specimen  Application Form
EXAMINATION FOR PROMOTION OF OFFICERS IN
CLASS III OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS'
SERVICE IN TO CLASS II OF THE SERVICE – 2012(2013)
Language medium in which the candidate intends to sit for the
examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage. Candidates shall not be
allowed to change this subsequently)
Town Town No.
(Indicate the name of the town in which you wish to appear for
the examination as per para 2.0 of the Gazette notification.
Candidates shall not be permitted to change this subsequently.)
1.0 1.1 Name with Initials :
Mr./Mrs./Miss :———––—.
(In English block capitals) Eg : SUNIL A. B.
1.2 Name with initials :——––——.
(In English block capitals)
1.3 Names in full :——––——.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 Have you changed your name after entering the Public
Service ? If so, indicate the previous name :——––—.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1903
2.0 Name and address of place of work :
2.1 Names and the Address of the Office/Department/
Institution :———––––—.
(In English Block Capital )
(Admission cards will be sent to this address)
2.2 Names and the Address of Office/Department/
Institution :———––––—.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Postal town :———––––—.
(In English Block Capitals)
2.4 Telephone Number :———––––—.
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female – 1
Male – 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
4.0 National Identity Card No. :
5.0  Present Post :
5.1 Post :——––——.
5.2 Number and the date of the Appointment letter :——.
5.3 Date of confirmation in the post as an officer in Class
III of the service :——––——.
6.0 6.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :–––.
6.2 If not, examination fee paid :——––——.
6.3 Office in which examination fee was paid :
Receipt No. :––––––––––. Date :––––––––––.
Affix the receipt of paid examination fee of Rs. 400 for
subsequent sittings.
7.0 Candidate's Statement :
I solemnly certify that,
(i) The statement made by me above is true to the best of
my knoweldge and belief.
(ii) I am an officer in Public Management Assistants' Service
and my appointment has been confirmed on ..........
(iii) I have earned all/all possible increments during the period
of 4 years immediately preceding 04th November 2013.
(iv) I certify that I have not suffered any punishment more
severe than a fine or a reprimand since the date of last
increment, with due respect.
I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to
be false and incorrect disciplinary actions would be taken against
me. I agree to abide by the regulations of this examination.
I hereby state that information furnished above are true and that
I am eligible to appear for the exam in the language medium
mentioned above. I certify that. I appear for this examination for
the first time/the receipt of the paid exam fees to the value of Rs.
.......... is affixed. I agree to abide by the rules stipulated for this
examination.
————,
Signature of the candidate.
(See the footnote)
Date :————.
Note.- The candidate should sign in the presence of the Head of
his/her Department or an officer authorized to sign on
behalf of the Head of Department.
A
TTESTATION OF THE SIGNATURE
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................................... who is an
officer employed at my work place and who is known to me
personally placed his/her signature in my presence .............. 2013.
—–––––––––———,
Signature and stamp of the
person attesting.
.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
C
ERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I certify that,
(i) Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... is an officer in class III
of the Public Management Assistant's Service and has
completed 04 years of service as at 04th November, 2013
and is eligible to sit the examination in terms of the
notification published in the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialit Republic of Sri Lanka dated 04th October, 2013.
(ii) The number of the appointment letter of class III of
officer as per his/her personal file is ....................
(Indicate the number of the appointment letter)
(iii) The particulars given in para 1.0 to 7.0 have been verified
and were found to be correct.
(iv) He/she is sitting the examination for the first time/receipt
of the fees for the relevant examination has been affixed.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1904
(v) He/she has completed an active service period of 04 years,
within which a satisfactory service has been completed
as at 04th November 2013.
(Delete words inapplicable).
———–––—,
Signature of the Head of Department
and official stamp.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
10-99/1
––––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT OF  WILDLIFE  CONSERV ATION
The  Open  Competitive  Examination  for  the
Recruitment  to the Posts of Wildlife  Guard  Non
Technical  - Segment 2 - 2013
IT is informed herewith that the closing date for calling applications
for the Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to the
Posts of Wildlife Guard Non Technical - Segment 2 in the Department
of Wildlife Conservation - 2013 has been extended up to 22.10.2013.
H. D. R
ATHNAYAKE,
Director General of Wildlife Conservation.
10–61
––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  AND  SKILLS
DEVELOPMENT
Department of Technical Education and Training
REGISTRATION OF EXTERNAL RESOURCE PERSONS AS
LECTURERS/INSTRUCTORS ACADEMIC YEAR  - 2014
APPLICATIONS are invited for the registration of External Resource
Persons as Lecturers/Instructors in the Colleges of Technology/
Technical Colleges under this Department by the Directors/
Principals of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges, indicated
in the Schedule given at the end of this notice.
02. Specimen Application and list of subjects for which External
Resource Persons are required, can be obtain from the Director/
Principal of the College of Technology/Technical College where
you wish to serve by sending him a self addressed stamped envelope
(9" x 4"). The top left - hand corner of the envelope should be
marked "External Resource Persons". These particulars may also
be obtained from the Principals in person.
03. The last date for obtaining these particulars will be 30th
November, 2013.
04. General Information for Applicant :
(i) Applicants should note to give all particulars regarding
their qualifications and experience in the Educational,
Professional and Technical fields.
(ii) Fees.– Fees payable to External Resource Persons vary
from Rs. 200 to Rs. 400 per hour in accordance with
their experience, qualifications and level of the course
they are selected to serve.
(iii) Forwarding of Applications.– Applications from officers
in the Public Service should be forwarded through the
Heads of their Departments/Institutes with an
endorsement by the respective Heads to the effect that
their selection of the applicant as an External Resource
Persons will not affects their normal duties.
(iv) Selections.– Selections for these registrations will be may
subsequent to interviews conducted by the Director/
Principals of the respective Colleges. Preference will be
given to applicants with experience in teaching. Please
note that the registration can be terminated according to
requirements of the College by the Director/Principal,
without giving any reasons and at any time during the
Academic Year.
(v) Registered External Resource Persons should conduct
internal examinations in their respective subjects without
additional remuneration.
05. These registration are valid only for the Academic Year 2014
and may be terminated even earlier in accordance with the
requirements.
06. If an applicant wishes to apply for more than one subject,
separate applications should be sent for each such subject. All
applications should be sent to Director/Principal of the appropriate
College of Technology/Technical College under registered Post to
reach him before the closing date specified by him.
S. B
ALASUBRAMANIAM,
Director General,
Department of Technical Education and Training.
P. O. Box 557, Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
www.dtet.gov.lk

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1905
LIST OF COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY/TECHNICAL COLLEGES
Serial T echnical College/College of Address District
No. Technology
01 Sri Lanka College of T echnology Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10 Colombo
02 Galle College of Technology Kaluwella, Galle Galle
03 Kandy College of Technology Aruppola, Kandy Kandy
04 Jaffna College of Technology Browns Road, Jaffna Jaffna
05 Badulla College of T echnology Greenlane Drive, Badulla Badulla
06 Anuradhapura College of Technology New Town, Anuradhapura Anuradhapura
07 Kurunegala College of Technology Puttalam Road, Kurunegala Kurunegala
08 Ampara Hardy College of Technology Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Ampara
09 Ratnapura College of Technology Palm Gardens, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Ratnapura
10 Kegalle Technical College Kachcheri Road, Kegalle Kegalle
11 Ratmalana Technical College Galle Road, Ratmalana Colombo
12 Matara Technical College Meddewatta, Matara Matara
13 Sammanthurai Technical College Ampara Road, Sammanthurai Ampara
14 Kalutara Technical College Kalamulla, Kalutara Kalutara
15 Warakapola Technical College Ambagala Road, Warakapola Kegalle
16 Kuliyapitiya Technical College Pannala Road, Kuliyapitiya Kurunegala
17 Pathadumbara Technical College Navayalatenna, Katugastota Kandy
18 Nuwara-Eliya Technical College Jayathilaka Mawatha, Nuwara-Eliya Nuwara-Eliya
19 Homagama Technical College Godagama, Homagama Colombo
20 Beliatta Technical College Puwakdandawa, Beliatta Hambantota
21 Hasalaka Technical College Yodha Ela Road, Hasalaka Kandy
22 Dambulla Technical College Matale Road, Dambulla Matale
23 Balapitiya Technical College Station Road, Wandaduwa, Balapitiya Galle
24 Wariyapola Technical College Chilaw Road, Wariyapola Kurunegala
25 Batticaloa Technical College Manchantuduwai, Batticaloa Batticaloa
26 Bandarawela Technical College Wewathenna, Bandarawela Badulla
27 Monaragala Technical College Sirigala, Monaragala Monaragala
28 Gampaha Technical College Werellawatta, Yakkala Gampaha
29 Trincomalee T echnical College Mihindupura, Trincomalee Trincomalee
30 Dehiattakandiya Technical College Mahawanawela, Dehiattakandiya Ampara
31 Matale Technical College M. C. Road, Matale Matale
32 Weerawila Technical College New T own, Weerawila Hambantota
33 Medagama Technical College Medagama (via Bibile) Monaragala
34 Polonnaruwa Technical College Vidyapura, Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa
35 Embilipitiya Technical College New Town, Embilipitiya Ratnapura
36 Vavuniya Technical College Mannar Road, Vavuniya Vavuniya
37 Akkaraipattu Technical College Main Street, Akkarapattu Ampara
38 Anamaduwa Technical College Gamuda Bhumiya, Thammennagama, Anamaduwa Puttalam
39 MannarTechnical College * Please see the note below Mannar
* Applicants, who apply for the Technical College Mannar should send their application to the principal, Vavuniya Technical
College, Mannar Road, Vavuniya.
10–64
B11 - B80771

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1906
MINISTRY   OF   YOUTH   AFFAIRS  AND   SKILLS
DEVELOPMENT
Department of Technical Education and Training
ADMISSION OF STUDENTS TO COURSES CONDUCTED
AT COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY/TECHNICAL
COLLEGES - 2014
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible candidates for courses
conducted in Colleges of  Technology/Technical Colleges appearing
in this Gazette Notification. Students for admission will be selected
from among the applicants according to the qualifications and merit,
and the place available in each course.
02. The prospective candidates are advised to prepare their own
applications on a 13" x 8" sheet of paper in accordance with the
“Specimen Application Form” given in this notification. As specified
in item 13 in the specimen application form, each application should
be affixed with a valid Rs. 10  stamp duly cancelled with the candidate’s
usual signature. Duly completed applications should be sent under
Registered Cover to reach the Director/Principal of the
respective College of Technology/Technical College to which
admission is sought to reach him on or before 30.11.2013.
Applicants are advised not to submit applications to this
department or to any officer’s official or personal addresses.
03. The top left hand corner of the envelope should be marked
with the title of the course applied for, and its course code.
 E.g.:- National Certificate in Engineering Draughtsmanship
Course - ETC05
04. Applications received after the prescribed date will be rejected.
05. Candidates are required to fill in their applications carefully
with the Name and Code Number of the Course, College in which the
course to be followed and the Medium of Instruction of the Course
correctly. Requests made subsequently to change the College, Course
or Medium of instruction will not be considered under any
circumstances.
06. Fees will be charged from all those following Part Time and
Evening Courses in the following manner :
(i) Part-time/Evening Certificate Courses (more than one
Year) Rs. 2,000 per year ;
(ii) Part-time/Evening one year and Short Term Courses less
than one year Rs. 1,500 per course.
07. Attention of all Candidates is invited to the Schedule of
Courses appended at the end of this notification, which indicates the
nature of courses, eligibility requirements for each course, the colleges
where the courses are conducted and medium of instruction. The
addresses of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges where the
courses are available are shown in the List of Colleges of Technology/
Technical Colleges.
08. A candidate seeking admission to follow a course in these
colleges should :–
(i) be of excellent moral character ;
(ii) be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(iii) have fulfilled all the eligibility requirements for admission
at the time of forwarding the application.
09. Suitable candidates will be selected on the results of an aptitude
test and/or an interview.
10. Any documents or copies thereof, should not be submitted
along with the application. Those candidates who fail to produce the
necessary and acceptable documents to prove their eligibility at the
interview will be deemed disqualified.
11. Subject to a maximum of Rs. 1,000  a month a stipend of
Rs. 50 per day for attendance to classes will be paid to those who
follow any full time course depending on parental income.
About 1,300 Full Time Day Course students from low income
families are paid a bursary of Rs. 2,500  per year.
12. The candidate is held entirely responsible for the authenticity
of his/her documents. Candidates who submit documents that have
been tampered with or forged or not proved in fact will be severely
dealt with.
13. To conduct all courses or Several Courses in this Gazette
notification for the Academic Year 2014, in Colleges of Technology/
Technical Colleges are subject to discretion of the Director General
of Department of Technical Education and Training.
Candidates can apply for more than one course using separate
application forms.
S. B
ALASUBRAMANIAM,
Director General,
Department of Technical Education and Training.
P. O. Box 557,
Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
www.dtet.gov.lk

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1907
List of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges
Serial Technical College/College of Technology Address District
No.
01. Sri Lanka  College of Technology Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10 Colombo
02. Galle College of Technology Kaluwella, Galle Galle
03. Kandy College of Technology Aruppola, Kandy Kandy
04. Jaffna College of T echnology Browns Road, Jaffna Jaffna
05. Badulla College of Technology Greenlane Drive, Badulla Badulla
06. Anuradhapura College of Technology New Town, Anuradhapura Anuradhapura
07. Kurunegala College of T echnology Puttalam Road, Kurunegala Kurunegala
08. Ampara Hardy College of Technology Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Ampara
09. Ratnapura College of Technology Palm Gardens, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Ratnapura
10. Kegalle Technical College Kachcheri Road, Kegalle Kegalle
11. Ratmalana Technical College Galle Road, Ratmalana Colombo
12. Matara Technical College Meddewatta, Matara Matara
13. Sammanthurai Technical College Ampara Road, Sammanthurai Ampara
14. Kalutara Technical College Kalamulla, Kalutara, Kalutara
15. Warakapola Technical College Ambagala Road, Warakapola Kegalle
16. Kuliyapitiya Technical College Pannala Road, Kuliyapitiya Kurunegala
17. Pathadumbara Technical College Navayalatenna, Katugastota Kandy
18. Nuwara-Eliya Technical College Jayathilaka Mawatha, Nuwara - Eliya, Nuwara-Eliya
19. Homagama Technical College Godagama, Homagama, Colombo
20. Beliatta Technical College Puwakdandawa, Beliatta Hamban tota
21. Hasalaka Technical College Yodha Ela Road, Hasalaka Kandy
22. Dambulla Technical College Matale Road, Dambulla Matale
23. Balapitiya Technical College S tation Road, Wandaduwa, Balapitiya Galle
24. Wariyapola T echnical College Chilaw Road, Wariyapola Kurunegala
25. Batticaloa Technical College Manchantuduwai, Batticaloa Batticaloa
26. Bandarawela Technical College W ewathenna, Bandarawela, Badulla
27. Monaragala Technical College Sirigala, Monaragala Monaragala
28. Gampaha Technical College Werellawatta, Yakkala Gampaha
29. Trincomalee T echnical College Mihindupura, Trincomalee Trincomalee
30. Dehiattakandiya Technical College Mahawanawela, Dehiattakandiya Ampara
31. Matale Technical College M. C. Road, Matale Matale
32. Weerawila Technical College New Town, Weerawila Hambantota
33. Medagama Technical College Medagama, (via Bibile) Monaragala
34. Polonnaruwa  Technical College Vidyapura, Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa
35. Embilipitiya T echnical College New Town, Embilipitiya Ratnapura
36. Vavuniya Technical College Mannar Road, Vavuniya V avuniya
37. Akkaraipattu Technical College Main Street, Akkarapattu Ampara
38. Anamaduwa Technical College Gamuda Bhumiya, Thammennagama, Anamaduwa Puttalam
39. Mannar Technical College * Please see the note below Mannar
* Applicants, who apply for the Technical College Mannar should sent their application to “the Principal, Vavuniya Technical
College, Mannar Road, Vavuniya.”
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY/TECHNICAL COLLEGES ACADEMIC YEAR – 2014
For Official use only
(Applications must be directed to the Director/Principal of the relevant College of Technology/Technical
College. Addresses of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges are given in the List of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges)
(Each Course applied for should be in a separate application)
01. Name of the College of Technology/Technical College :——––—.
02. Name of the Course applied :—––——.   (Full Time Day/ Evening/Part Time)
Medium :——––—. Code No. :——––—.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1908
03. Applicant’s Name with Initials :——––—.
04. Names indicated by Initials :——––—.
05. Permanent Address :——––—.
06. Contact No. :——––—. E-mail :——––—.
07. National Identity Card No. :—––——.
08. District :—––——. Electorate :—––——.
Gramaniladari Division :—––——.
09. Date of Birth :  Year :——––—,  Month :—––——, Date :—––——.
Age as at 01.01.2014 : Years :—––——,  Months :—––——, Days :——––—.
10. Male/Female :———.
11. Educational Qualifications :
(A) G. C. E. (O/L) Results (Not more than two attempts)
Index No. Year Subjects Grade
(B) G . C. E. (A/L) Results (In one attempt) :–
Index No. Year Subjects Grade
(C) Number of G . C. E. (A/L) sittings :—––——.
(D) Highest grade/year passed if the applicant has not obtained the qualifications mentioned in (A) above :-
 Grade :——––—,       Year :—––——.
12. Only for Evening and Part Time Courses :
To be filled only for courses for which employment is a requirement
12.1 Applicant’s Name :——––—.
12.2 Post held at present and the Date of Appointment to the Post :—––——.
If self employed, the type of employment :—––——.
12.3 Work place and its address :——––—.
12.4 Employee Provident Fund No. :——––—.
Employee Trust Fund No. :——––—.
I certify that the above applicant is an employee in this Institute/Office,
12.5 Name of the Employer :—––——.
12.6 Designation :—––——.
12.7 Signature  :—––——. Official Seal :—––——.
12.8  Date :——––—.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1909
13. Applicant’s Declaration :
I hereby certify that the information given in this application is true to my knowledge , and I have obtained the qualifications required
for the course applied for. Further I agree with the scheme of selection of students to Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleg es and to
accept the decision of the Director General of the Department of Technical Education and Training as final.
––––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :——––—.
Stamp to the value of Rs. 10 should be affixed here and cancelled by signing on it.
SCHEDULE OF COURSES CONDUCTED IN COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY/TECHNICAL COLLEGES  –  2014
Engineering Technician Studies Courses :
Full Time Courses
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium
01 ETB 03 National Diploma in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects English Medium
Agriculture including Agriculture, with four Credit passes Dambulla,
in one sitting. The four credit passes should be Kuliyapitiya
Full Time Day for the following subjects:
Two Years and 06 months First Language, Mathematics, Science and Social
Studies or any of the following subjects :–
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry,
(NVQ) Food Science and Food Technology, Fresh
Water (inland) Bio Resource Technology,
*Teaching in the first year Oceanic (Marine) Bio Resource Technology ;
is conducted in Sinhala/ or
Tamil medium second Should passed at least Three Ordinary passes
year in English medium  in one sitting at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination.
The subjects should be any three of the following :
Should have completed the
NVQ Level 3/4 modules Biology, Zoology, Botany, Chemistry, Physics,
and have passed the Agriculture
assessments before obtain
NVQ Level 5 certificate. 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2014.
02 ETC 01 National Certificate for 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
English Medium
Industrial Technicians not more than two sittings with four Credit Kandy,
(Civil Engineering) passes including  Science, Mathematics, Medium Ratmalana
Language and English Language. At least five (5)
Full Time Day subjects should be passed in one sitting  ;
Two Years or
Merit pass in any National Certificate in
*Course with National Engineering  Craft Practice 2 years course ;
V ocational Qualification or
(NVQ) Pass in any National Certificate in Engineering
Craft  Practice Course with Credit passes in
Should have completed the Science and Mathematics at G . C. E. (O/L).
NVQ Level 3/4 modules Candidates will be selected by an aptitude test.
and have passed the
assessments before obtain 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
NVQ Level 5 certificate. 01.01.2014.

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1910
03 ETC 02 National Certificate for 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in English Medium
Industrial Technicians not more than two sittings with four Credit Kandy,
(Electrical  Engineering) passes  including Science, Mathematics, Medium Ratmalana
Language and English Language. At least five (5)
subjects should be passed in one sitting ;
Full Time Day or
Two Years Merit pass in any National Certificate in
Engineering Craft Practice 2 year course ;
*Course with National or
V ocational Qualification Pass in any National Certificate in Engineering
(NVQ) Craft Practice Course with Credit passes in
Science and Mathematics at G . C. E. (O/L).
Should have completed the
NVQ Level 3/4 modules Candidates will be selected by an aptitude test.
and have passed the
assessments before obtain 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as
NVQ Level 5 certificate. on 01.01.2014.
04 ETC 03 National Certificate for 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
English Medium
Industrial Technicians not more than two sittings with four Credit Kandy,
(Mechanical Engineering passes including Science, Mathematics, Medium Ratmalana
Production Technology) Language and English Language. At least five (5)
subjects  should be passed in one sitting ;
Full Time Day or
Two Years Merit pass in any National Certificate in
Engineering  Craft Practice 2 year course ;
*Course with National or
V ocational Qualification Pass in any National Certificate in Engineering
(NVQ) Craft Practice Course with Credit passes in
Science and Mathematics at G . C. E. (O/L).
Should have completed the
NVQ Level 3/4 modules Candidates will be selected by an aptitude test.
and have passed the
assessments before obtain 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as
NVQ Level 5 certificate. on 01.01.2014
05 ETC 05 National Certificate 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Sinhala Medium
in Engineering in not more than two sittings. Ampara,
Draughtsmanship Anamaduwa,
The six (6) subjects should be - Anuradhapura,
Full Time Day Badulla,
One Year ( a) Sinhala/Tamil/English ; Balapitiya,
(b) Mathematics and Science ; Bandarawela,
*Course with National ( c) Three other Subjects Beliatta,
V ocational Qualification and Dambulla,
(NVQ) Have passed 02 subjects in G . C. E. (A/L) in not Dehiattakandiya,
more than two sittings Galle, Gampaha,
Hasalaka,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as Homagama,
on 01.01.2014. Kalutara, Kandy,
Kegalle,
Kuliyapitiya,
Kurunegala,
Maradana,
Matale,
Moneragala,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1911
Nuwara Eliya,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Warakapola,
Weerawila,
Embilipitiya,
Trincomalee,Matara,
Wariyapola,
Pathadumbara
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya, Jaffna,
Akkaraipattu,
06 ETC 07 National Certificate in 1. Passes in four (4) subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Sinhala Medium
Jewellery Manufacture Examination in one sitting ; Beliatta,
or Maradana
Full Time Day One Year should have passed year 09 and experience in
the relevant field.
* Course with National
V ocational 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as
Qualification-(NVQ) on 01.01.2014.
07 ECC 40 Certificate in Landscaping 1. Should have passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination ; Sinhala Medium
for Junior Supervisors or Beliatta, Galle,
Have passed the National Certificate in W arakapola, Kegalle
Full Time Day Landscaping  Technology Craft Level III Course
One Year conducted in any of the V ocational Training
Centers attached to VTA.
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification 2. Age should be between 18 and 35 years as
(NVQ) on 01.01.2014.
P
ART TIME COURSES
08 ETC  01.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in English Medium
Technology (Civil not more than  two sittings. Ampara,
Engineering) Six (6) subjects should be – Anuradhapura,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language ; Badulla, Balapitiya,
(b) Mathematics and Science ; Beliatta,
(c) Three other Subjects ; or equivalent qualifications. Dambulla,
Part Time Embilipitiya,
Three years 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as Galle, Gampaha,
on 01.01.2014. Hasalaka,
(Restricted to those Homagama,
employed in the Kalutara, Kandy,
relevant field.) Kegalle, Kurunegala,
Maradana, Matara,
* Course with National Moneragala,
V ocational Qualification Nuwera-Eliya,
– (NVQ) Matale,
Polonnaruwa,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1912
* Teaching in the first year Ratmalana,
is conducted in Sinhala/ Ratnapura,
Tamil medium and the Warakapola,
second and third year in W eerawila,
English medium Trincomalee,
Anamaduwa,
Bandarawela,
Kuliyapitiya,
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai,
Vavuniya, Jaffna,
Akkaraipattu
09 ETC 02.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
English Medium
Technology (Electrical in not more than two sittings. Ampara,
Engineering) Six  (6) subjects should be :- Anuradhapura,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language, Badulla,
Part time Three Years ( b) Mathematics and Science, Balapitiya,
(c) Three other Subjects ; or equivalent qualification Galle, Gampaha,
(Restricted to those or Homagama,
employed in the Kalutara, Kandy,
relevant field.) Have passed the National Certificate in Engineering Kegalle,
Craft Practice Full time Day 2 year-Electrician Kurunegala,
* Course with National course or Radio, TV and Electronics course Maradana,
V ocational Qualification conducted at Technical Colleges under the Matara,
(NVQ) Department of Technical Education and Training. Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
* Teaching in the first 2. Age should not be less than  17 years as Warakapola,
year is conducted in on 01.01.2014. Trincomalee,
Sinhala/Tamil medium Batticaloa,
and the second and third Sammanthurai,
year in English medium Jaffna,
Vavuniya,
Akkaraipattu
10. ETC 03.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
English Medium
Technology (Mechanical not more than tw o sittings. Kandy, Ratmalana,
Engineering - Production Six (06) subjects should be :- Kegalle, Jaffna
Technology) ( a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language,
(b) Mathematics and Science,
Part Time Three Years ( c) Three other subjects ; or equivalent qualifications
or
(Restricted to those Have passed the National Certificate in Engineering
employed in the Craft Practice Full time Day 2 year-Motor Vehicle
relevant field.) Mechanic/General Machinist/Fitter Machinist
course conducted at Technical Colleges under the
* Course with National Department of Technical Education and Training.
V ocational
Qualification - (NVQ) 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as
on 01.01.2014.
* Teaching in the first
year is conducted in
Sinhala/Tamil medium
and the second and third
year in English medium
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1913
11. ETC 03.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in English Medium
Technology (Mechanical not more than two sittings. Maradana, Ampara,
Engineering - Auto Six (06) subjects should be :- Kurunegala, Galle,
Mobile Technology) ( a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language, Matara, Warakapola,
(b) Mathematics and Science, Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Part Time Three Years ( c) Three other subjects ; or equivalent qualifications Homagama,
or Gampaha, Beliatta,
(Restricted to those Have passed the National Certificate in Engineering Sammanthurai
employed in the Craft Practice Full time Day 2 year-Motor Vehicle
relevant field.) Mechanic/General Machinist/Fitter Machinist
course conducted at Technical Colleges under the
* Course with National Department of Technical Education and Training.
V ocational
Qualification - (NVQ) 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as
on 01.01.2014.
* Teaching in the first
year is conducted in
Sinhala/Tamil medium
and the second and third
year in English medium
12. ETC 03.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
English Medium
Technology (Mechanical not more than  two sittings. Ratnapura,
Engineering - Ref and Air Six (06) subjects should be :- Anuradhapura, Galle,
Conditions Technology) ( a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language, Kal utara, Batticaloa,
(b) Mathematics and Science, Beliatta,
Part Time Three Years ( c) Three other subjects ; or equivalent qualifications Sammanthurai
or
(Restricted to those Have passed the National Certificate in Engineering
employed in the Craft Practice Full time Day 2 year-Motor Vehicle
relevant field.) Mechanic/General Machinist/Fitter Machinist
course conducted at Technical Colleges under the
* Course with National Department of Technical Education and Training.
V ocational
Qualification - (NVQ) 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as
on 01.01.2014.
* Teaching in the first
year is conducted in
Sinhala/Tamil medium
and the second and third
year in English medium
13. ETC 04.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
English Medium
Technology (Quantity in not more than two sittings. Anuradhapura,
Surveying) Six (06) subjects should be :- Badulla,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language Balapitiya
Part Time Three Years ( b) Mathematics and Science Beliatta,
(c) Three other Subjects ; or equivalent Galle, Gampaha,
(Restricted to those qualifications Homagama,
employed in the 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as Kalutara, Kandy,
relevant field.) on 01.01.2014. Kegalle,
Kurunegala,
* Course with National Maradana,
V ocational Matara,
Qualification - (NVQ) Moneragala,
Ratmalana,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1914
* Teaching in the first Ratnapura,
year is conducted in Trincomalee,
Sinhala/Tamil medium Warakapola,
and the second and third Weerawila, Matale
year in English medium Embilipitiya,
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
Vavuniya,
Akkaraipattu
Engineering Craft Studies Courses :
F
ULL TIME COURSES
01. ECC 08 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft with passes in Mathematics and Medium Anuradhapura,
Practice-(Electronics) Language in not more than two sittings Badulla,
Bandarawela,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Beliatta,
Two Years 01.01.2014. Galle, Gampaha,
Hasalaka, Kalutara,
* Course with K andy, Kegalle,
National V ocational Kurunegala,
Qualification Maradana,
- NVQ Matara
Nuwara-Eliya,
Polonnaruwa,
Rathmalana,
Ratnapura,
Warakapola,
Embilipitiya,
Trincomalee, Matale
Tamil Medium
Maradana, Jaffna,
Vavuniya
02. ECC10 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft with passes in Mathematics and Medium Galle, Kegalle,
Practice- (Fitter Language in not more than two sittings Kuliyapitiya,
Machinist) Kurunegala,
Kalutara, Matara,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Polonnaruwa,
Two Years 01.01.2014. W arakapola,
Badulla, Rathnapura
* Course with
National V ocational Tamil Medium
Qualification- (NVQ) Sammanthurai
03. ECC13 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft with passes in Mathematics and Medium Language Ampara,
Practice- (Industrial in not more than two sittings ; Anuradhapura,
Electrician) or Embilipitiya,
Have passed the House Wiring Course Gampaha,
Full Time Day Conducted in any V ocational Training Centers Homagama,
Two Years attached to VTA, Kuliyapitiya,
Maradana,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1915
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Nuwara-Eliya,
01.01.2014. Polonnaruwa
* Course with Ratmalana,
National Vocational Trincomalee,
Qualification- (NVQ) Pathadumbara,
Weerawila, Matale,
Monaragala, Kandy,
Kurunegala,
Kalutara, Galle,
Balapitiya, Matara,
Beliatta,
Rathnapura, Kegalle,
Badulla,
Bandarawela,
Warakapola,
Dambulla
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
V avuniya
04 ECC 18 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in Ampara,
Practice- (Motor not more than  two sittings. Anuradhapura,
Vehicle Mechanic) Badulla,
Bandarawela,
Beliatta,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Dambulla,
Two Years 01.01.2014. Embilipitiya, Galle,
Gampaha, Hasalaka,
* Course with Homagama
National V ocational Kalutara, Kandy,
Qualification - (NVQ) Kegalle,
Kuliyapitiya,
Kurunegala
Maradana, Matara,
Moneragala,
Nuwara Eliya,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Warakapola, Matale,
Trincomalee,
Weerawila
Tamil Medium
Jaffna,
Trincomalee,
Mannar,
Sammanthurai,
V avuniya
05 ECC 02 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 ;
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft or Ampara
Practice- (Gas and Arc Have passed the Welder Course conducted in Anamaduwa,
Welder) any of the V ocational Training Centres attached Anuradhapura,
to VTA Badulla, Balapitiya
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1916
Full Time Day Bandarawela,
One Year 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Beliatta, Dambulla
01.01.2014. Dehiattakandiya,
Embilipitiya, Galle,
Gampaha, Hasalaka,
* Course with Homagama,
National Vocational Kalutara,
Qualification - (NVQ) Kandy,  Kegalle,
Kuliyapitiya,
Kurunegala,
Maradana, Matara,
Moneragala,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Trincomalee,
Warakapola,
Wariyapola,
Weerawila,
Pathadumbara,
Nuwara-Eliya
Tamil Medium
Jaffna, Mannar,
Batticaloa,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya
06 ECC 09 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 ;
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft or Ampara,
Practice- (Plumber) Have passed the Plumbing Course conducted Anuradhapura,
in any of the V ocational Training Centres Dehiattakandiya,
Full Time Day attached to VTA Embilipitiya,
One Year Homagama,
2. Age should be between 17and 29 years as on Nuwara-Eliya,
* Course with 01.01.2014. Polonnaruwa,
National V ocational Ratnapura,
Qualification - (NVQ) Monaragala, Matara,
Beliatta, Kegalle,
Galle, Badulla,
Kuliyapitiya,
Dambulla,
Kurunagala,
Ratmalana, Gampaha,
Bandarawela,
Anamaduwa,
Trincomalee
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Trincomalee, Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
Vavuniya,
Nuwara-Eliya,
Badulla
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1917
07 ECC 05 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft with passes in Mathematics, Science and Anuradhapura,
Practice-(Refrigeration Medium Language in not more than two sittings. Bandarawela,
and Air Conditioning Beliatta,
Mechanic) 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as Embilipitiya, Galle,
on 01.01.2014. Gampaha,
Homagama,
Full Time Day Kalutara, Kandy,
One Year Kegalle, Matara,
Polonnaruwa,
* Course with Ratnapura,
National V ocational Maradana, Hasalaka
Qualification - (NVQ) Kuliyapitiya,
Rathmalana, Matale,
Trincomalee
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Mannar
08 ECC 06 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 ;
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft or Anuradhapura,
Practice-(Wood Machinist) have passed the Carpenter Course conducted in any Dehiattakandiya,
of the V ocational Training Centres attached to VTA. Embilipitiya,
Full Time Day Homagama,
One Year Kuliyapitiya,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as Polonnaruwa,
* Course with on 01.01.2014. Ratnapura,
National V ocational Wariyapola,
Qualification - (NVQ) Anamaduwa,
Nuwara-Eliya,
Bandarawela, Galle,
Balapitiya, Matara,
Beliatta, Kegalle,
Badulla, Monaragala,
Ratmalana
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai,
Badulla
09 ECC 14 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 ;
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft or Anuradhapura,
Practice - (Construction have passed the Masonry Course conducted in any Anamaduwa,
Craftsman) of the V ocational Training Centres attached to VTA Bandarawela,
Embilipitiya,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years Wariyapola,
One Year as on 01.01.2014. Ratnapura,
Polonnaruwa
* Course with Kuliyapitiya,
National Vocational Ratmalana,
Qualification - (NVQ) Homagama,
Galle, Balapitiya,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1918
Matara,
Beliatta, Kegalle,
Badulla,
Monaragala,
Kurunegala
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai
10. ECS 21 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 10.
Sinhala Medium
Aluminium Fabrication Anuradhapura,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as Gampaha,
Full Time Day on 01.01.2014. Homagama, Kandy,
Six Months Kurunegala,
Matara,
* Course with Matale, Ratmalana,
National V ocational Warakapola,
Qualification - (NVQ) Balapitiya, Beliatta,
Monaragala
Tamil Medium
Nuwara-Eliya,
Ampara, Batticaloa,
Mannar
11. ECC 22 Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects in Sinhala Medium
Electrical Trade not more than two sittings. Anamaduwa,
Dehiattakandiya,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Ratnapura,
One Year 01.01.2014. Wariyapola,
Trincomalee,
*Course with Kal utara, Kegalle,
National V ocational Homagama
Qualification - (NVQ)
Tamil Medium
Sammanthurai,
Jaffna
12. ECS 26 Certificate in Motor 1. Should have passed Year 09. Sinhala Medium
Cycle and Scooter Anuradhapura,
Repairing 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as Beliatta,
on 01.01.2014. Dehiattakandiya,
Full Time Day Kegalle,
One Year Kurunegala, Matale,
Pathadumbara,
* Course with Trincomalee,
National V ocational Bandarawela,
Qualification - (NVQ) W eerawila
Tamil Medium
Jaffna, Batticaloa,
Vavuniya,
Trincomalee
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1919
13. MCC 08 Certificate in Footwear 1. Should have passed Year 09. Sinhala Medium
Making Ampara,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Embilipitiya,
Full Time Day 01.01.2014. Medagama
One Year
* Course with
National V ocational
Qualification - (NVQ)
14. ECC 21 Certificate in House 1. Should have passed Year 10.
Sinhala Medium
Hold Electrical Anuradhapura,
Appliances Repairing 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Pathadumbara,
01.01.2014. Trincomalee,
Full Time Day Dehiattakandiya
Six Months
Tamil Medium
* Course with Trincomalee,
National Vocational Nuwara-Eliya,
Qualification - (NVQ) V avuniya
15. ECC 26 Certificate in Machining 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium
Anuradhapura,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Bandarawela,
One Year 01.01.2014. Gampaha,
Embilipitiya,
* Course with Homagama, Kandy
National V ocational Kalutara, Maradana,
Qualification - (NVQ) Ratmalana,
Rathnapura,
Dambulla,
Warakapola,
Dehiattakandiya,
Matara,
Nuwara-Eliya
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Jaffna
16 ECC20 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 10.
Sinhala Medium
Automobile Painting Kurunegala,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Dehiattakandiya
Full Time Day 01.01.2014.
Six Months
* Course with
National V ocational
Qualification - (NVQ)
17 ECC17 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 10.
Sinhala Medium
Automobile Tinkering Kurunegala,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
Full Time Day 01.01.2014.
Six Months
* Course with
National V ocational
Qualification - (NVQ)
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 40 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1920
18 ECC34 Agriculture Equipment 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium
Mechanic Anuradhapura,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Dehiattakandiya
Full Time Day 01.01.2014.
One Year
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification
- (NVQ)
19 ECC19 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects with
Sinhala Medium
Building Construction passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in not Balapitiya,
Technology - Craft more than two sittings. Warakapola,
Practice (Multi Skill) Kalutara, Kegalle,
Kandy, Galle,
Matara, Gampaha,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Ratnapura
One Year 01.01.2014.
Tamil Medium
Jaffna,
Sammanthurai
20 ECC 16 Certificate in Fruits and 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Vegetable Processor with passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Kandy
Language and English in not more than two sittings.
Full Time Day Should have a credit pass in Science. Tamil Medium
Six months Jaffna
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
* Course with National 01.01.2014.
V ocational Qualification –
(NVQ)
P
ART TIME COURSES
21 ECC 34.1 Agriculture Equipment 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium
Mechanic Dehiattakandiya,
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Anuradhapura
Part Time 01.01.2014.
One Year
Tamil Medium
Jaffna
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification
- (NVQ)
Business Studies Courses :
FULL TIME COURSES
01 BSB 03 National Diploma in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six (06) subjects Sinhala Medium
Accounting with passes in Mathematics and G . C. E (A/L) Maradana, Galle,
Examination in Two (02) subjects with passes in Kandy, Ampara,
Full Time Day one (01) of Ratnapura
Two Years (i) Accounting
(ii) Combined Maths Tamil Medium
* Course with National (iii) Business Studies Jaffna
V ocational Qualification (iv) Economics
- (NVQ) (v) Business Statistic
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2014.
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 41 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1921
02 BSC 04 National Certificate for 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects Sinhala Medium
Accounting with passes in Mathematics and Medium Anuradhapura,
Technicians Language in one  sitting. Balapitiya, Beliatta,
Dambulla, Galle,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Hasalaka,
One Year 01.01.2014. Homagama,
Kalutara, Kandy,
* Course with National Kegalle, Kuliyapitiya,
V ocational Qualification – Kurunegala,
(NVQ) Maradana, Matale,
Matara,
Nuwara Eliya,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratnapura, Ampara,
Warakapola,
Gampaha,
Trincomalee.
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
V avuniya, Maradana,
Akkaraipattu
03 BSC 06 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with
English Medium
Secretarial Practice (English) passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in not Badulla,
more than two sittings. Should have a Credit pass Balapitiya,
Full Time Day in English. Batticaloa,
One Year (i) Competency in spoken & written English will be Kalutara, Kandy,
considered. Kuliyapitiya,
Students who (ii) Candidates will have to sit a written test if so Kurunegala,
successfully complete this decided by the authorities. Maradana,
course are eligible to follow (iii) Female candidates are preferred. Warakapola, Jaffna,
the National Diploma in Homagama,
Secretarial Practice Course, 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Gampaha, Galle,
conducted  by the Sri Lanka 01.01.2014. Matara, Beliatta,
Institute of Advanced Kegalle, Matale,
Technical  Education Anuradhapura,
Sammanthurai.
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification
– (NVQ)
04 BSC 13 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects Sinhala Medium
Shorthand, Typewriting with passes in Mathematics and Medium Ampara,
and Computing-Sinhala Language in not more than two sittings. Anuradhapura,
Beliatta, Dambulla
Should have a Credit pass in Sinhala. Dehiattakandiya,
Full Time Day Galle, Kalutara,
One Year 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Kandy,
01.01.2014. Kuliyapitiya,
Maradana,
Medagama,
Moneragala,
Pathadumbara,
Trincomalee,
Kegalle, Warakapola.
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium
B12 - B80771

<!-- page 42 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1922
05 BSC 14 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects Tamil Medium
Shorthand, Typewriting in not more than two sittings with passes in Batticaloa,
and Computing-Tamil Medium Language and Mathematics ; Maradana,
Should have a Credit pass for Tamil Language. Sammanthurai,
Full Time Day Trincomalee,
One Year 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Vavuniya, Jaffna,
01.01.2014. Akkaraipattu.
06 BSC 05 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects English Medium
Marketing in not more than two sittings with passes in Baticaloa, Galle,
Mathematics, Medium Language and English Kandy, Matara,
Full Time Day Language. Kuliyapitiya,
One Year Sammanthurai,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Trincomalee,
01.01.2014. Kegalle,
Akkaraipattu.
PART TIME COURSES
07 BSC 04.1 National Certificate for 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination is Six (06) Subjects Sinhala Medium
Accounting in not more than two sittings with a pass for Ampara,
Technicians Mathematics and Medium Language. Moneragala,
Kegalle.
Part Time - One Year 2. Age should not be less than 18 years as
(Restricted to on 01.01.2014.
employees in an office
Tamil Medium
of a recognized firm, Trincomalee,
Government Vavuniya,
Department / Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Corporation or Local Akkaraipattu,
Authority or any other Sammanthurai.
recognized Institute.)
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification
- (NVQ)
08 BSC 13.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Shorthand, with passes in Mathematics and Medium W arakapola,
Typewriting and Language in not more than two sittings.  Kegalle,
Computing - (Sinhala) Should have a Credit pass in Sinhala  Trincomalee.
Part Time - One Year
(Restricted to those 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as
who are engaged in on 01.01.2014.
Stenography/Typing or
in an allied field)
09 BSC 14.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Tamil Medium
Shorthand, in not more than two sittings with passes Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Typewriting and in Medium Language and Mathematics. Should Akkaraipattu,
Computing - (Tamil) have a Credit Pass for Tamil Language. Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee.
Part Time - One Year
(Restricted to those 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as
who are engaged in on 01.01.2014.
Stenography/Typing or
in an allied field)
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 43 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1923
General Studies Courses
FULL TIME COURSES
01 ESC 01 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects English Medium
English for Commerce, including English in not more than two sittings. Ampara,
Industry and Further Anamaduwa,
Education 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Anuradhapura,
01.01.2014. Badulla, Balapitiya,
Full Time - Day Bandarawela,
One Year Batticaloa, Beliatta,
Dambulla,
Students who Dehiattakandiya,
successfully complete this Embilipitiya, Galle,
course are eligible to follow Gampaha, Hasalaka,
the National Diploma in Homagama,
English Course, conducted Kalutara, Kandy,
by the Sri Lanka Institute Kegalle,
of Advanced Technical Kuliyapitiya,
Education Kurunegala,
Maradana
Matale, Matara,
Medagama,
Moneragala,
Nuwara Eliya,
Pathadumbara,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratnapura,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
V avuniya,
Warakapola,
Wariyapola,
Weerawila,
Ratmalana, Jaffna,
Akkaraipattu,
Mannar.
02 MCC 09 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Japanese Medium
Japanese Language in not more than two sittings. Galle
Full Time - Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as
One Year on 01.01.2014.
03 MCC 07 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects Korean Medium
Korean Language in not more than two sittings. Galle, Kegalle
Beliatta,
Full Time - Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as Warakapola,
One Year   on 01.01.2014. Kuliyapitiya,
Matara, Ampara,
Anuradhapura,
Jaffna,
Akkaraipattu.
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 44 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1924
04 ECC 03 Certificate in Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects Sinhala Medium
Hardware with passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Galle, Kuliyapitiya,
Language and English Language in not more than Maradana,
two sittings. Moneragala, Kandy,
Full Time Day Kurunegala.
Six Months 2. Should have completed Basic Computer Science
Course. Tamil Medium
* Course with National Batticaloa.
V ocational Qualification - 3. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
(NVQ) 01.01.2014.
05 ECC 04 Certificate in Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects Sinhala Medium
Networking with passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Galle, Kandy,
Language and English Language in not more than Maradana,
two sittings. Bandarawela,
Full Time  Day Polonnaruwa.
Six Months 2. Shou ld have completed Basic Computer Science
Course.
Tamil Medium
* Course with National Jaffna.
V ocational Qualification - 3. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
(NVQ) 01.01.2014.
06 ECC 31 Certificate in Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects Sinhala Medium
Graphic Designing with passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Maradana,
Language and English Language in not more Wariyapola.
than two sittings.
Full Time Day
Six Months 2. Should have completed basic Computer
Science Course.
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification - 3. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
(NVQ) 01.01.2014.
P
ART TIME COURSES
07 ESC 01.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects in English Medium
English for Commerce, not more than two sittings. Ampara,
Industry and Further Badulla, Batticaloa,
Education. (S pecial consideration will be given to those Beliatta,
employed in a supervisory capacity in an Industrial, Dehiattakandiya,
Commercial or any similar establishment or those Embilipitiya, Galle,
Part Time - Two Years who were employed in a similar capacity at an earlier Gampaha, Kalutara,
date and those who may qualify for promotion after Kandy, Kegalle,
successful completion of the Course). Kuliyapitiya,
Matale,
A basic knowledge of English is essential. Moneragala,
Polonnaruwa,
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Ratnapura,
01.01.2014. Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya,
Warakapola,
Weerawila,
Jaffna,
Akkaraipattu,
Nuwara-Eliya,
Hasalaka.
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 45 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1925
08 ECC 03.1 Certificate in Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) examination in Six (6) subjects with Sinhala Medium
Hardware passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Language Galle,
and English Language in not more than two sittings. Dehiattakandiya.
Part Time 720 hours
2. Should have completed basic Computer Science Course
* Course with National Tamil Medium
V ocational Qualification - 3. Age should not be less than 17 years as Sammanthurai.
(NVQ) on 01.01.2014.
(Restricted to those
employed in the relevant
field)
09 ECC 04.1 Certificate in Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with Sinhala Medium
Networking passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Language Galle.
and English Language in not more than two sittings
Part Time 720 hours
2. Should have completed basic Computer Tamil Medium
* Course with National Science Course. Sammanthurai.
V ocational Qualification -
(NVQ) 3. Age should not be less than 17 years as on
01.01.2014.
(Restricted to those employed
in the relevant field)
Special Courses :
FULL TIME COURSES
01.  BSC 16 Receptionist 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects English Medium
with passes in Mathematics and Medium. Galle,
Full Time Day Language  in not more than two sittings. Should Kurunegala.
One Year have a Credit pass in English.
* Course with National (i) Competency in Spoken and Written
V ocational Qualification English will be considered.
- (NVQ)
(ii) Candidates will have to sit a written test
if so decided by the authorities.
(iii) Female candidates are preferred.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2014.
02. ECC 12 Information 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with Sinhala Medium
Communication passes in Mathematics, Medium Language and Kegalle, Warakapola,
Technology Technician English Language in not more than two sittings. Badulla,
Bandarawela,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Moneragala, Kandy,
Six Months 01.01.2014. Pathadumbara,
Matale, Hasalaka,
* Course with National Beliatta, Rathnapura,
V ocational Qualification Kurunagala,
- (NVQ) Dambulla,
Nuwara-Eliya,
Matara, Maradana,
Kalutara, Galle,
Kuliyapitiya,
Anuradhapura,
Medagama,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 46 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1926
Embilipitiya,
Ratmalana,
Balapitiya,
Weerawila,
Wariyapola,
Dehiattakandiya.
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Vavuniya, Mannar,
Akkaraipattu,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee.
03. ECC 07 Steward 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Tamil Medium
with passes in Mathematics, Science and Medium Trincomalee,
Full Time Day Language in not more than two sittings. Bandarawela,
Three Months Nuwara-Eliya.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2014.
04. ECC 01 Construction site 1. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects Sinhala Medium
Supervisor with passes in Mathematics, Science and Galle, Maradana,
Medium Language  in not more than two sittings. Ratmalana,
Full Time Day -One Year Homagama, Kalutara,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Balapitiya, Matara,
* Course with National 01.01.2014. Beliatta, Rathnapura,
V ocational Qualification - Embiliptiya,
(NVQ) Warakapola,
Monaragala, Kandy,
Anuradhapura,
Kurunegala,
Kuliyapitiya,
Dehiattakandiya,
Wariyapola,
Dambulla,
Trincomalee,
Anamaduwa.
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Trincomalee,
Akkaraipattu,
Sammanthurai.
P
ART TIME COURSES
05. ECC 12.1 Information 1. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with Sinhala Medium
Communication passes in Mathematics, Medium Language and Galle, Kegalle,
Technology Technician English Language in not more than two sittings. Warakapola,
Kalutara, Matara,
Part Time 720 hours 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Matale, Hasalaka,
01.01.2014. Ratnapura,
* Course with National Trincomalee,
V ocational Qualification - W eerawila, Balapitiya.
(NVQ)
Tamil Medium
(Restricted to those Vavuniya, Jaffna,
employed in the relevant Sammanthurai,
field.) Trincomalee.
10–65
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 47 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1927
EFFICIENCY  BAR   EXAMINATION   PRESCRIBED
FOR  OFFICERS  IN  SEGMENT "B" AND  SEGMENT
"A"  OF  CLASS  II OF  THE  SRI  LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL  S ERVICE – 2013
IT is hereby notified that, in accordance with the approved service
minute of Sri Lanka Technological Service, the above mentioned
examinations will be held by the Commissioner General of
Examinations, in Colombo, in January 2014.
02. (i) These examinations will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and candidates will be bound by the rules
and regulations prescribed by him in respect of conducting the
examination and issuing the results.
(ii) The candidates will be subjected to a punishment imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examinatisons, if such rules are violated
by them. Rules prescribed for candidates are printed separately at
the beginning of this gazette notification.
03. The specimen application for admission to this examination
is pubilshed at the end of this notification. Candidates are required to
prepare their application in accordance with the specimen form and
officers in the public service should forward their applications through
the respective Head of Department and officers in the Provincial
Public Service should forward their applications through the Secretary
of PSC in the Provincial Council where they serve, by registered
post to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organizations and Foreign Examination Branch, Department of
Examinations, Pellawatta, Battaramulla on or before 04th November
2013. The top left corner of the envelope containing the application
should bear clearly the title of the examination. Applications received
after the closing date of application will be rejected.
04. Identity Cards.– Candidates should prove their identity at the
examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject
they offer. For this purpose any of the following documents will be
accepted :
(a) An identity Card issued by the Department of Registration
of Persons,
(b) A valid passport.
The candidature of any applicant who is unable to furnish any of
the above documents is liable to cancellation on the discretion of
Commissioner General of Examinations.
05. Application :
(i) Applications should be prepared in a paper A4 in size,
No. 01 to 02 should appear on the first page whilst the
rest should appear on other pages. Applications could
be typed but they should be completed correctly and
legibly by the candidate in his/her own handwriting and
in the language medium in which the candidate sits this
examination.
(ii) When the application form is prepared, the title of the
examination appearing in the specimen should be indicated
in English Language as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil
application forms. Applications which are incomplete
and not prepared in accordance with the specimen form
will be rejected without any notice. It is the responsibility
of the candidate to make sure that the application form
perfected by him/herself complies with the specimen
given in the examination notice and it would be advisable
to keep a photocopy of the completed application form.
(iii) The candidates appearing for the examination for the
first time need not pay examination fees. However, for
subsequent sittings, a fee of Rs. 400 should be paid for
the whole examination and if only one subject is offered,
a fee of Rs. 200 should be paid. The fee can be paid to
any post office in the island to be credited to revenue
head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examination and the receipt obtained, thus should be
affixed firmly in the relevant cage. It would be advisable
to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate.
Under no circumstance, will the fee be refunded not
transferred in respect of other examinations.
(iv) Candidates are not allowed to change the language
medium selected by them in their applications. If
applications are received in Sinhala, Tamil and English
languages, this examination will be held in those three
languages. However candidates should answer the
question papers in one and the same language selected
by them.
(v) An officer is not allowed to sit for both Efficiency
Bar Examinations at one and the same occasion.
(vi) The officers who have been appointed to Segment II B
of Sri Lanka Technological Service as at the closing date
of the application can sit for the Efficiency Bar
Examination in Segment IIB.
(vii) However, the officers in Segment IIA as well as the officers
in Class II Segment 'B' who have completed a service
period of five years and passed the 1st Efficiency Bar
Examination can sit for the Efficiency Bar Examination
in Class II Segment 'A'.
06. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards along with a copy of the time table to all candidates
whose applications have been received. A candidate sitting himself
for the examination must produce his admission card with bear the
candidate's signature which duly attested to the supervisor of the
examination center. A candidate who fails to produce his admission
card will not be permitted to sit the examination.
A notification will be published in newspapers as soon as the
admission cards are issued to the candidates. If the admission card is
not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps
should be taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the

<!-- page 48 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1928
manner specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep
the following in hand at the time of calling the Department of
Examinations : i. e. certified photocopies of the application form and
the receipt kept at your possession, receipt of registration and in
case of applicants outside Colombo letter of request furnishing a fax
number to which the admission card should be sent. Further, issuance
of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that
the candidate is eligible to sit the examination.
07. The documents furnished later by the candidates who have
failed to satisfy the requirement indicated in para (06) above will not
be considered.
08. Officers may, if they so which, present themselves for different
subjects separately at different examinations. However, in order to
secure a pass at least 40% of the marks should be obtained in respect
of each question paper.
09. Issue of the results of the examination.– In accordance with
the particulars indicated in para. 3 above, the results of the candidates
belonging to Provincial Public Service will be issued to the Secretary
of the respective Provincial Public Service Commission and the results
of the candidates belonging to public service will be issued to the
secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration.
10. Scheme of Examinations :
(1) The Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Class II
Segment "B" will consist of 02 question papers.
1. Office Administration and Establishments Code - (Two
hours) 100 marks - (Subject No. 01)
2. Financial Regulations - (Two hours)
100 marks - (Subject No. 02)
Office Administration and Establishments Code (Subject
No. 01) - Syllabus :
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of
Establishments Code :
Chapter II Recruitment Procedure and
Appointment.
Chapter III Transfers.
Chapter IV Grant of monthly pay, temporary
status, permanent status and
pensionability.
Chapter V Release, reversion and termination of
Employment.
Chapter VIII Overtime, holidays, holiday pay and
allowances.
Chapter XII Leave.
Chapter XIII Railway Warrants.
Chapter XIV Travel on duty within the island.
Chapter XIX Government Quarters.
Chapter XLVII General conduct and discipline.
Financial Regulations (Subject No. 02) - Syllabus :
This paper will be based on the following chapters of
Financial Regulations :
(1) Chapter I
Estimates of Expenditure and Revenue
The Consolidated Fund and Planning and
Programming of Expenditure, Form of Presentation
of Annual Estimates, New proposals, Preparation
Submission and passing of Estimates of Expenditure,
Variations to Estimates of Expenditure (FR. 1 to 68)
(2) Chapter III
Financial Management and Accountability.
Chief Accounting Officers, Accounting Officers,
Revenue Officers, Authorization, Approval,
Certification, Delegation of Authority (FR. 124 to
147)
(2) The Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Class II
Segment "A" will consist of 02 question papers.
1. Office Administration and Establishments Code
(Two hours)
100 marks - (Subject No. 03)
2. Financial Regulations - (Two hours)
100 marks - (Subject No. 04)
Syllabus for the first question paper.
Office Administration and Establishments Code (Subject
No. 03) - Syllabus :
This paper will be based  on the following Chapters of
Estalbishments Code :
Chapter XV Travel abroad for study, training or on
duty.
Chapter XVI Holiday Travel.
Chapter XXIII Special concessions and conditions
regarding officers suffering from certain
types of illnesses.
Chapter XXIV Salary Loans and Advances.
Chapter XXV Concessions to members of Trade
Unions.
Chapter XXVII Channels of communications.
Chapter XXVIII Administrative procedures.
Chapter XXX Right of government over its officers.
Chapter XXXIII Legal advice and legal actions.
Chapter XLVII General conduct and discipline.
Chapter XLVIII Rules of disciplinary procedure.
Circulars issued on performance appraisal.

<!-- page 49 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1929
Financial Regulations (Subject No. 04) - Syllabus :
This paper will be based on the following chapters of
Financial Regulations :
(1) Chapter VI
Custody of Public Money etc., Imprests and Bank
Accounts. Security and custody of Public etc.,
Counterfoil Books, Boards of Survey on cash stamps
etc., Imprests, Bank Accounts. (FR. 315 to 396)
(2) Chapter XIII
Supplies, Works and Services.
Procurement and contracts, supplies, custody and
verification of stores, surplus and unserviceable
articles.
(FR. 685 to 775)
11. The decision of the Secretary, Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs will be the final in respect of any
matter not provided for in this notification.
12. Issue of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily
mean that his/her eligibility to sit for the examination has been
accepted.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil
and English texts of this Gazette notification, the Sinhala text shall
prevail as the accurate text.
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
17th September, 2013.
Specimen Form of Application
(For office use only)
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  PRESCRIBED  FOR
OFFICERS  IN  SEGMENT  "B"  AND  SEGMENT  "A"  OF
CLASS  II  OF  THE  SRI  LANKA  TECHNOLOGICAL
SERVICE - 2003
(Applications for "B" and "A" segments cannot be sumitted at one
and the same time)
Medium in which you sit for the examination
(Sinhala - 2/Tamil - 3/English - 4)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Examination which you apply (II'B' - O/II'A'-1)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01. ( a) Name with initials (Indicate the initials at the end of the
name :–––––––––––.
(In English block capital letters) (eg : SILV A, A. B.)
(b) Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In English block capital letters)
(c) Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
(d) Official address (Admissions will be posted to this address) :
(In English block capital letters) :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
(e) Sex :
(Male - 0/Female - 1)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(f) Telephone Number :
(g) National Identity Card Number :
(h) Subject/Subjects offered :
Subject offered for the Class II Segment B/Class II
Segment A
Efficiency Bar Examination (delete inapplicable words)
Subject Subject No.
.......................................
.......................................
02. Whether you belong to the Provincial Public Service or Public
Service (Indicate the relevant number in the cage) :
(Public Service - 1/Western - 2/Southern - 3/
Central - 4/North Wstern - 5/Sabaragamuwa - 6/
Uva - 7/North Central - 8/North - 9/East - 10)
03. (i) Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(ii) Age as at 04.11.2013 :
Years : Months : Days :
04. (i) Designation :–––––––––––.
(ii) Class and Grade of Sri Lankan Technological Service :––––.
(Should be included as IIA/IIB)
(iii) Service period in the above class and grade as at 04.11.2013 :
–––––––––––.
05. Department which you belong to :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 50 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1930
Affix the receipt of examination fee here (It would be
advisable to keep a copy of the receipt)
I declare that the particulars furnished above are accurate and I
am entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium
mentioned above. Further, I agree to abide by the rules imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examination on conducting the
examination and issuing the results.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
Note.– Candidate should place his/her signature in the presence of
the Head of Department or an officer duly authorized to
sign on his behalf.
Attestation of candidate's signature
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................. is
presently employed in my office and is well known to me and he/she
placed his/her signature in my presence on ..................... 2013.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Certification of the Head of the Department
I hereby certify that the particulars given in paragraphs 1-5 above
are correct and this candidate is eligible to sit for the examination and
also eligible to sit for the examination in the language medium
mentioned above.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature and designation of Head of Department.
Date :––––––––––––.
10–139
––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment
to the Supra Class of Public Management Assistants'
Service – 2013
IT is hereby notified that the Limited Competitive Examination for
recruitment to the Supra Class of Public Management Assistants'
Service shall be held in all three languages of Sinhala, Tamil and
English by the Commissioner General of Examination in January
2014.
02. This examination shall be held in the following towns. The
towns in which the examination centers are located and the relevant
town numbers are given below :
Town Town Number
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Badulla 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
At the occasions, where a sufficient number of applications are
not received in respect of a certain centre mentioned above, such
examination center shall be cancelled and the applicants shall be
directed to an adjoining centre. The town applied initially shall not
be allowed to change subsequently.
03. The Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration and Home
Affairs reserves the right to postpone or cancel the examination
subject to the instructions of the Public Service Commission.
04. 35% of vacancies existing in Supra Class of Public Management
Assistants' Service as at 01.07.2013 shall be filled on the results of
this examination.
05. The salary segment MN 07/2006-A of Public Administration
Circular No. 06/2006(iv) is entitled to this post and accordingly, the
monthly salary scale will be Rs. 20,030 -11x365 - 18x500 -
Rs. 33,045.
06. Qualifications.– Following officers attached to the Central
Government who have completed an active and a satisfactory service
of 05 years immediately preceding 01.07.2013 shall be eligible to sit
for this examination.
(a) officers in Class I of Public Management Assistants'
Service.
(b) Officers in Class II of Public Management Assistants'
Service who have completed an active service of not less
than 08 years.
(c) Officers in Class I and II of Public Management Assistants'
Service who are graduate officers who have possessed a
degree from a university recognized by the University
Grants Commission.
Note.– Definitions for the period of satisfactory service and
period of active service are indicated in para 2.6 and 2.7 of
the Public Management Assistants' Service Minute.
07. Method of application :
(a) The application should be in the form of the specimen
appended to this notification. It should be prepared by
the candidate himself on paper of size 25.5 x 21cm
(A4 paper) using both sides in such a way that Nos. 01 to
04 appear on the 1st page, Nos. 05 to 10 on the 2nd page
and the remaining numbers on the 3rd page. It is the

<!-- page 51 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1931
responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the
application complies with the specimen. Applications that
do not comply with the specimen or that have not been
completed properly will be rejected without notice. It is
essential to mention the name of the examination in English
language as well, in applications prepared in both Sinhala
and Tamil mediums. The application should be prepared
in the same language in which the candidate intends to sit
the examination. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy of
the application with the candidate).
(b) Applications perfected by candidates should be forwarded
to the Head of Department along with a photocopy. Once
his/her recommendation is obtained, the photocopy should
be filed in the personal file of the candidate while the
original should be sent through the respective Head of
Department to reach the " Commissioner General of
Examinations, Department of Examinations,
Pelawatte, Battaramulla " before 04th of November,
2013 by Registered Post. Copies of applications other
than the application sent through the Head of Department
should not be sent personally. Applications received after
the closing date will be rejected. The respective Head of
Department should certify that the application has been
perfected in every respect and should place his signature
on the certificate in the application (No. 12). No
application should be sent to the private address of
the Commissioner General of Examinations or any
other officer of the said Department. The top left corner
of the envelope containing the application should clearly
bear the words "Limited Competitive Examination for
recruitment to Supra Class of Public Management
Assistants' Service - 2013 ". The post and the service
station of the applicant at the time of applying for the
examination shall be applicable to all matters related to the
examination and any change made in this regard after sending
applications shall not be considered.
(c) (i) Examination fee will not be charged from the candidates
who sit the examination for the first time ; namely
candidates who did not sit the Limited Competitive
Examination for promotion to Supra Class of General
Clerical Service held in 1972, 1973, 1974, 1975, 1976,
1978, 1979, 1980, 1982, 1983, 1984, 1985, 1986,
1987, 1988, 1989, 1991, 1996, 1999 or 2001,
candidates who did not sit for a Limited Competitive
Examination of Supra Class of Government Typists'
Service held in 1985 and 1996, candidates who did
not sit for a Limited Competitive Examination of
Supra Class of Government Stenographers' Service
held in 1996 and candidates who did not sit for a
Limited Competitive Examination of Supra Class of
Government Book Keepers'/Shroffs' or Store keepers'
Service held in 1999 and candidates who did not sit
for the Limited Competitive Examination for
promotion to Supra Class of PMAS held in 2006,
2007, 2011.
(ii) Examination fee is Rs. 400. This fee should be paid at
the nearest District Secretariat/Kachcheri/Divisional
Secretariat to be credited to revenue head 2003-02-13
on or before the closing date of applications. The
receipt issued should be affixed in the relevant cage of
the application. This fee is non-refundable. It is
advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with
the candidate.
(d) Complaints on applications or any relevant document
getting lost or delayed in the post will not be entertained.
(e) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
08. Admission to the examination :
(a) Commissioner General of Examinations shall issue
admission cards to all the candidates who have paid
examination fees, completed the application form properly
and sent before due date. A candidate presenting himself
for the examination should get his signature on the admission
card attested in advance and produce his admission card to
the supervisor of the examination center on the day of the
examination. Any candidate who fails to produce his
admission card will not be permitted to sit the examination.
(b) Candidates must sit the examination at the examination
hall assigned to him. Every candidate should surrender to
the supervisor of the hall, the admission card relevant to
that hall at the first day he presents himself for the
examination. A set of rules to be by all candidates is
published in this gazette. Candidates shall be bound by the
rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations on conducting the examination
and they are liable to a punishment imposed by him for
breach of these rules and regulations.
(c) A notification will be published in newspapers by the
Department of Examinations as soon as the admission
cards are issued to candidates. If the admission card is not
received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement,
steps should be taken to notify the Department of
Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement.
It would be advisable to keep the following in hand at the
time of calling the Department of Examinations stating
your full name, address, National Identity Card Number
and name of the examination : i. e. certified photocopies of
the application form and the receipt kept at your
possession. In case of applicants outside Colombo, letter
of request furnishing the above particulars and a fax number
to which a copy of the admission card is to be sent should
be sent to the Department of Examinations through fax.
Note.– Issuance of admission card to the examination does
not necessarily mean that the candidate is eligible to sit
the examination.

<!-- page 52 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1932
09. Identity of candidates.– A candidate shall be required to prove
his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject he offers for this purpose, any one of the
following documents shall be accepted.
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons.
(b) A valid passport.
10. Penalty for furnishing false information :
(a) If a candidate is found to be ineligible in accordance with
the rules and regulations of this examination, his/her
candidature is liable to be cancelled at any state prior to,
during or after the examination.
(b) If the particulars furnished by a candidate are subsequently
found to be false or if it is found that he/she has willfully
suppressed any material fact he or she shall no longer be
considered for an appointment. Furthermore, he or she
shall be liable for dismissal from the public service or
cancellation of any appointment made on this examination.
11. Language medium of the examination.– The examination will
be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English Languages. Candidates should
sit the examination in the language medium in which they sat for the
examination for recruitment to the service or in one of the official
languages. The language medium of examination indicated initially
shall not be allowed to change subsequently.
12. Scheme of examination .– Written test will consist of the
following subjects :
Subject Marks Duration (hours)
1. Office Management 100 02
2. Office Systems 100 02
3. Establishment Procedures 100 02
4. Public Financial Management 100 02
5. General Paper
100 1 1/2
500
13. Syllabus.– Knowledge in the following subjects is expected
from the candidates :
(i) Office Management (Duration - 02 hours, Marks - 100)
Organization structure, principles of organization, job
analysis and evaluation, leadership sueprvision and
decision making, communication, public relations, co-
ordination and problem solving.
(ii) Office System (Duration - 02 hours, Marks 100)
Principles of office systems, office procedures, records
and filing, control and designing of forms, correspondence,
control over the use of office equipment, office layout
and premises, job description, study on work and systems,
work measurement, Manual of Office Operations.
(iii) Establishments Procedures (Duration - 02 hours, Marks
100)
Procedures to be followed in recruitment to the public
service, establishments matters of public officers,
maintenance of a personal file. Delegation of authority in
making appointments to the public service, stransfers,
promotion and termination of services, welfare and
privileges of public officers. The general knowledge on
regulations and circulars hitherto issued by the
Government will be tested.
(iv) Public Financial Management (Duration - 02 hours, Maks
100)
Annual Estimates and the responsibilities of an Accounting
Officer, financial control, delegation of financial
responsibility, receipt of money, accounting and
acceptance, payments, custody of public money, imprests
and bank accounts, supplies and services, tender
procedure, board of survey, audit queries, ledgers used in
government offices, summaries of income and expenditure,
bank reconciliation and books used in financial
management. The general knoweldge of circulars and
regulations hitherto issued on the use of the public finance
will be tested.
(iv) General paper (Du ration - 1 1/2 hours, Marks 100)
The nature of Public Administration, structure of Public
Administration, Public Policy and new public reforms,
fundamental rights, human rights, Human Rights
Commission, Ombudsman, Parliamentary Committee for
Public Petitions, office culture, ethics and values, creation
of proper office environent and welfare of staff, social
recognition of official and civil status, obligations of public
officers towards the recipients.
14. Selection for appointment.– On the order of total marks secured
at the examinations, candidates shall be called for an interview which
will be conducted by an interview board appointed by the Public
Services Commission for vertification of qualifications. No marks
shall be allocated at such interview. Selected candidates are liable to
serve in offices situated in any part of the island where vacancies
exist. Appointment of any candidate shall be cancelled, if he/she
refuses to assume duties at the respective office. At such occasions,
vacancies will be filled by calling other candidates in the order of
marks.
15. Appointments shall be made subject to the general conditions
governing the appointments of public service, rules and regulations
stipulated in the Public Management Assistants' Service Minute
published in the gazette extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,372/23 dated 24th of December, 2004
and any amendment already made and will be made thereto in due
course.
16. The Public Service Commission reserves the right to refrain
from filling some or all of the vacancies and also to decide on the
matters not provided for is respect of these regulations.

<!-- page 53 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1933
17. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil
and English texts of this gazette notification, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
On the order of the Public Services Commission,
P. B. ABEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
17th of September, 2013.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
L
IMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR APPOINTMENT TO SUPRA
CLASS OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS' SERVICE – 2013
For office use only
Name of town Town Number
1.
2.
Indicate the town and the town number in which the candidate
intends to sit the examination as per the notification of calling for
application.
Language medium :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01. 1.1 Name, with initials at the end : Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––.
(In English block capitals) Eg. : SILV A, A. B.
1.2 Name in full (In English) :–––––––––––.
1.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
1.4 N. I. C. number :
02. 2.1 Official address (In English block capital) :–––––––––––.
(Admission card will be sent to this address)
2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
(In English block capital)
2.3 permanent address :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.4 Telephone number :
03. Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
04. Sex :
Female - 1
Male - 0
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
05. Marital status :
Single - 1
Married - 2
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
06. Age as at 01.07.2013 :
Years : Months : Days :
07. Have you sat for any of the following examinations ? Examinations
for recruitment to G . C. S. held in 1972, 1973, 1974, 1975, 1976,
1978, 1979, 1980, 1982, 1983, 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988,
1989, 1991, 1996, 1999, 2001/Examination for recruitment to
Government Typists' Service held in 1985 and 1999/Examination
for recruitment to Government Stenographers' Service held in
1996/Examination for recruitment to Government Book-keepers
Service held in 1999/Examination for recruitment to Government
Shroffs' Service held in 1999/Limited Competitive Examination
for Promotion to Supra Class of the Public Management
Assistants' Service held in 2006, 2007, 2011 :–––––––––––.
08. (i) Date of appointment to Public Management Assistants'
Service/General Clerical Service/Governemnt Typists'
Service/Government Stenographers' Service/Government
Blook-keepers' Service/Government Shroffs' Service/
Government Store-keepers' Service :–––––––––––.
(ii) Total period of service as at 01.07.2013 :
Years : Months : Days :
(iii) No pay leave obtained during the 05 years immediately
preceding 01.07.2013 :–––––––––––.
(iv) Period of active service as at 01.07.2013 :
Years : Months : Days :
(v) Date of confirmations in the post of Public Management
Assistants' Service/General Clerical Service/Government
Typists' Service/Government Stenographers' Service/
Government Book-keepers' Service/Government Shroffs'
Service/Government Store-keepers' Service :––––––––––.
(vi) Present class and the date of appointment to the same
class :–––––––––––.
(vii) If possessing a degree, the year and the name of the
university :–––––––––––.
(viii) Effective date of the degree :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 54 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1934
09. (i) Language medium in which the candidate sat the competitive
examination to enter Public Management Assistants'
Service/General Clerical Service/Government Typists'
Service/Government Stenographers' Service/Government
Book-keepers' Service/Government Shroffs' Service/
Government Store-keepers' Servuce :–––––––––––.
(ii) If the candidate was recruited to General Clerical Service/
Government Typists' Service/Government Stenographers'
Service/Government Book-keepers' Service/Governent
Shroffs' Service/Governemnt Store-keepers' Service without
holding a competitive examiantion, language medium in
which the candidate obtained qualifications to enter the
service :–––––––––––.
10. Affix the cash receipt firmly :
Affix the cash receipt firmly and carefully by applying glue only
on the top margin of the reverse of the receipt.
11. Certificate of the candidate :
I certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief that all the
increments failling due within the 05 years immediately preceding
01.07.2013 have been earned by me (except increments for which
the passing of Departmental Service Examinations has been
prescribed) and that I have not suffered any disciplinary punishment
whatsoever during the same period.
I declare that I am eligible to sit for this examination and the
information given in this form is true and that since I am sitting for
this examiantion for the first time, the fee should not be paid/the cash
receipt of No. ................ dated ................... obtained on payment of
examination fee is affixed hereto*. If it is found that, I am ineligible
according to the service minute relating to this examination, I agree to
be bound by any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature,
at any state prior to, during or after the examination. Further, I also
agree to be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the
Commissioenr General of Examinations on conducting the
examination and the decisions taken on issuance of the results.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the officer.
Date :–––––––––––.
12. Certificate of the Head of the Department :
I certify that the candidate Mr./Mrs./Miss*. .................................
has been serving in this office since ....................... he/she* has
completed a satisfactory service of five years as at ...........................
that the particulars furnished in the application have been checked
personally by me with the documents available in the office and
were found to be correct, he/she*is eligible for exemption from
examination fees since she/he* is appearing for the examination for
the first time/he/she* has paid the prescribed examiítion fee and
pasted the receipt on the application he/she *has satisfied requisite
qualifications to sit for the examination as per the reelvant Gazette
notification, an endorsement to that effect has been entered in the
history sheet of the officer as per circular letter of Commissioner
General of Examinations No. 13 dated 02.10.21972 and the he/she*
has signed before me on ........... 2013. Reference No. of the Director
General of Combined Services and the date of the letter of absorption
of this officer to Public Management Assistants' Service are ..............
and .................. respectively.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Institution.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(Place the official stamp)
*Delete the inappropriate words.
10–99/3
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  AGRICULTURE
Department of Agriculture
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO GRADE III OF THE POSTS OF SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE - 2013
APPLICATIONS are called from citizens of Sri Lanka who have fulfilled the following qualifications for the Open Competitive Examination
for recruitment in Grade III of the posts of Agricultural Instructor/Research Assistant/Soil Surveyor of the Sri Lanka Technological Service
in the Department of Agriculture.
02. The closing date of applications is 28th of October and the age of applicants should not be less than 18 years and not more than
45 years of the date of closing applications. The maximum age limit will not be applicable to those who are already in the Public Service of
Provincial Public Service.

<!-- page 55 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1935
03. The candidates are required to fulfill the following Basic Educational Qualifications and Professional Qualifications :
Code No. Post 03.1 Educational Qualifications 03.2  Professional Qualifications
relevant to G . C. E. (O/L) G . C. E. (A/L)
the post Examination Examination
01 Agricultural
Instructor
02 Research
Assistant
03 Soil Surveyor
Note.– If those who had obtained Diploma from the Open University of Sri Lanka had passed the foundation course relevant to
the said Diploma they can be exempted from the requirement of passing G . C. E. (O/L) Examination.
N. B.– Every applicants should have fulfilled the all requirements stipulated in this Gazette Notification as at the closing date of
applications.
A pass in G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination in 06 (six)
subject with credit passes
in Language or Literature,
Mathematics, Science and
any other subject at not
more than two sittings.
A pass in G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination in 06 (six)
subjects with credit passes
in Language or Literature,
Mathematics, Science and
any other subject at not
more than two sittings.
A pass in G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination in 03 (three)
science subjects with two
science subjects out of
Agriculture, Biology,
Chemistry, Physics,
Zoology at one sitting.
A pass in G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination in 03 (three)
Science subjects with two
Science subjects out of
Agriculture, Biology,
Chemistry, Physics,
Zoology at one sitting.
(i) Two year Agriculture Diploma Certificate
obtained from schools of Agriculture,
Kundasale, Angunakolapelessa,
Pelwehera, Bibila, Labudoowa,
Wariyapola, Vavuniya, Anuradhapura,
Karapincha ;
or
(ii) Agriculture Diploma Certificate obtained
from the Hardi Technical Institute ;
or
(iii) Agriculture Diploma Certificate obtained
from Acquinas College ;
or
(iv) Two year Agriculture Diploma Certificate
offered by government approved
Institution ;
or
(v) Any other qualifications accepted by the
Sri Lanka Technological Services Board as
equivalent in all respect to the above
qualifications.
(i) Two year Agriculture Diploma Certificate
obtained from the schools of Agriculture,
Kundasale, Angunakolapelessa,
Pelwehera, Bibila, Labudoowa,
Wariyapola, Vavuniya, Anuradhapura,
Karapincha ;
or
(ii) Agriculture Diploma Certificate obtained
from the Hardi Technical Institute ;
or
(iii) Agriculture Diploma Certificate obtained
from Acquinas College ;
or
(iv) A Diploma Certificate obtained having
successfully completed a training on Soil
Survey from International Institution for
Ariel Survey Earth Science (I. T. C.) of
Netherland or a Diploma in Soil Survey
obtained from a recognized equivalent
Institution ;
(v) Other qualifications accepted by the Sri
Lanka Technological Services Board as
equivalent to the above qualifications.

<!-- page 56 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1936
3.2 Other qualifications :
* Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
* Should posses good character,
* Should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the island.
04. The appointing authority reserves the authority to fill some of or all the vacancies existing in the Department or to unfill those
vacancies.
Salary and Efficiency Bar Examinations :
Salary Code – MN 03/2006A
Salary Scale.– Rs. 15,005 - 4x180 - 6x240 -11 x320 - 20x 360 - Rs. 27,885.
The First Efficiency Bar Examination should be completed within three (3) years from the date of appointment to the Grade III
and the Second Efficiency Bar Examination should be completed within three (3) years from the date of promotion to Grade II. An officer
who has joined the Public Service in a Language other than the Official Languages should acquire the proficiency in official language as
prescribed within the period of Probation. For the fulfillment of the proficiency in other language prescribed for the post, th e test of
secondary merit level language course conducted by the Commissioner of Official Languages should be passed as per sub-para : 1(b) of the
P. A. Circular 07/2007, within five (5) years from the date of appointment. Failure to obtain the proficiency in Official Languages and pass
the Efficiency Bar Examinations within the periods as prescribed will be a cause for the deferment of salary increments.
05. Terms of Engagement :–
(i) These posts are permanent and pensionable. Contributions will have to be made to the Widows'/Widowers' and Orphans'
Pension Scheme.
(ii) You should serve in any part of the island in which you are called upon to serve and priority will be given to fill the vacancies
in institutions in the districts of Anuradhapura, Polonnaruwa, Ampara, Kandy (Hasalaka), Monaragala, Hambantota and
North East Province.
(iii) You will be subject to the conditions of the Minutes on Sri Lanka Technological Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,426/34 of 06.01.2006 effective at present and any other amendments
hereinafter made thereto and to the recruitment procedures.
06. Method of application :
(a) The specimen of the application for this examination is appended to the end of this notification. The application should
accordingly be prepared only on A4 size (21cm x 29cm) paper using both sides of the paper, so as paragraph 01 to 04 in
the first page, 05 to 07 in the second page and the rest in other pages of the application. The relevant particulars should be
filled by applicant in his/her own hand writing. The name of the examination appears in the heading of the application
prepared either in Sinhala or Tamil Language is required to be printed in English language as well. Applications which are
not in accordance with the specimen and incomplete applications will be rejected without notice. It would be an advantage
to keep a photocopy of the application with you. Further applicant should check whether the application prepared by
him is in order of the specimen appended to this notification. Unless the application may be rejected.
(b) In case of applying more than one post out of the three posts given in the sub-para (e) below, only one application should
be forwarded including all such posts.
(c) The application should be completed only in the language in which the applicant intends to sit for the examination.
(d) Duly completed applications should be sent by registered post to Commissioner General of Examinations, Department of
Examinations, P. O. Box 1503, Palawatte, Battaramulla on or before 28.10.2013.
(e) The words "Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to the Posts of Sri Lanka Technological Service in the
Department of Agriculture" Should clearly be marked on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.

<!-- page 57 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1937
(f) An applicant can apply for one post or all posts and the examination fee is Rs. 750. The receipt (original) obtained on the
payment of the above examination fee to any Divisional Secretariat or District Secretariat with the instructions to credit
the payment to the Revenue Head 2003.02.13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations should be affixed in the space
provided in the applicaiton. Keeping a copy of the receipt with you would be an advantage. The examination fee will not
be refunded in any circumstance and money orders and stamps will not be accepted.
(g) Applications which are not complete in every respect or delayed will be rejected without notice and no complaint that an
application has been lost or delayed in the post will be considered.
(h) The signature of the applicant should be attested by a Principal of a Government School or a Justice of Peace or Attorney-
at-Law or an officer who holds a Staff Grade Post in the Public Service.
(i) Those who are already in the Public or Provincial Public Service should forward applications through heads of their
respective institutions.
07. Scheme of Examination :
(a) Admission Card. – The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue admission cards to the candidates whose
applications have been received. A candidate must produce his/her attested admission card to the supervisor of the
examination hall. A candidate who fails to produce his/her admission card will not be permitted to sit for the examination.
Issue of an admission card to an applicant does not necessarily mean that he/she has the requisite qualification to sit for the
examination.
(b) Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka will publish a notice in news papers immediately after issuing admission cards
to the applicants. Any applicant who has not received his/her admission card 02 or 03 days after publishing the notice in
news papers, should notify to the Department of Examinations as stated in this notification. It is informed to notify to the
Sri Lanka Department of Agriculture stating the name of the examination, your name, address and N. I. C. number keeping
in hand the copies of the application form, receipt of payment of examination fee and in case of an applicant out side
Colombo it would be mroe advantageous to notify to the Sri Lanka Department of Examinations faxing a request with a fax
number to which the copy of the admission card with above information to be sent.
(c) Travelling expenses or any other allowance will not be paid to candidates in respect of appearing in this examination.
(d) Identification of the candidates .– A candidate will be required to prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the
satisfaction of the Supervisor of each subject he offers. For this purpose following documents will be accepted :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(ii) A valid passport.
(e) Syllabus :
(i) Intelligence Test – Time - one hour (total marks - 100)
This paper consists of 50 multiple choices and short answers type questions so as to make an assessment of the
candidate's, power of logical reasoning, analysis and ability to draw sound inferences. All questions should be
answered.
(ii) Technological question paper (Time 02 hours. Total marks - 100)
Part I – This paper consists of 50 multiple choices and short answers type questions and all questions should be
answered. (Time 1 hour)
Part II – This paper consists of 10 structured type questions and all questions should be answered. (Time 1 hour)
This paper consists of multiple choice questions and short answers type questions to be answered in the question paper
itself prepared to examine the knowledge accordingly, the relevant syllabus in given below :
B13 - B80771

<!-- page 58 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1938
Post Syllabus : Technological Question Paper
01. Agricultural Instructor Contribution of Agriculture to the Economic Development of Sri Lanka/Knowledge in climatic zones
of Sri Lanka/Soil and Plant Nutrition/Rice Production, Production of other field crops, Vegetable
Production, Fruit Production/Crop Protection/Importance of soil conservation and various soil
conservation methods/Irrigation and water management/Farm mechanization/Apiculture/Floriculture
02. Research Assistant and landscaping/protected crop cultivation/ Animal husbandry/Agricultural extension/knowledge
in plant quarantine/plant conservation and its importance/Bio technology/seed production and
tissue culture.
03. Soil Surveyor Types of soil in Sri Lanka and distribution of them, factors effect on soil formation, identification of
soil profile, map reading, present land use pattern in Sri Lanka, effects of deforestation and
environmental issues, use of fertilizer, crop diversification, soil and water conservation methods,
climatic zones of Sri Lanka.
(f) Medium of examination.–This examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English Languages. A candidate must
answer all the papers of the examination in one and the same language. The language of the examination given in the
application will not be allowed to change later.
(g) The Commissioner General of Examination will allow to sit for this competitive examination to all applicants who have
paid the examination fee and forwarded applications to reach on or before the date specified in this notification on
predetermination that the applications have only been sent by those who have fulfilled the requirements prescribed in this
Gazette Notification. If applied for more than one post out of 03 posts given in the (e) above, only one application should
be forwarded including all posts applied for. All candidates are subject to the rules imposed by the Commissioner General
of Examinations in connection with this examination. A candidate who violates any of these rules is liable to a punishment
at the discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
(h) Place and Date of Examination.– This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations at
Colombo and Kandy on January 2014. In case of receiving insufficient number of applications, the examination will only
be held in Colombo. (The examination center given in the application will not be allowed to change later.)
Examination center Cord No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
08. Method of Recruitment :
(i) Recruitments will be considered on the merit list prepared according to agregate of marks of the applicants selected from
those who have secured 40% or more marks in each question paper.
(ii) The qualifications of the applicants will be scrutinized by a Board of Interview appointed by the Director General of
Agriculture based on the merit of marks of the examination. Subsequently those who have fulfilled the requirements will
be selected for the posts. (Marks will not be added at the interview).
(iii) The number of applicants to be called for the interview will be decided by the Director General of Agriculture.
(iv) If it is revealed at the interview that a candidate has not fulfilled the qualifications his/her candidature will be cancelled.
(v) If a candidate will pass the examination appearing in it without completing the qualifications prescribed in this Gazette
Notification as at the closing date of applications he/she will not be called for the interview and his/her application will be
rejected without any notice.
(vi) If a candidate will receive an appointment by furnishing false information and counterfeit documents immediately after
revealing such misconduct his/her appointment will be cancelled and legal actions will be taken against him/her.
(vii) A list of candidates who have secured not less than 40% marks and passed the examination will be provided to the
interview board as notified by the Director General of Agriculture.

<!-- page 59 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1939
09. Any matter not provided for in this notification will be decided by the “Appointment Authority”. All candidates are bound to
act in conformity with the General Rules of Examinations stipulated in this Gazette.
10. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English notifications of this examination notification "The
Sinhala" notification shall prevail.
Dr. R. R. A. WIJEKOON,
Director General of Agriculture.
At the Department of Agriculture,
Peradeniya,
10th September, 2013.
(For office use only)
S
PECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
APPLICATION FOR OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENTS TO GRADE III OF THE POSTS OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL
SERVICE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Medium of Examination : Sinhala - 02 (Indicate the number)
Tamil - 03
English - 04
Examination Centre Indicate the centre number
Colombo - 01
Kandy - 02 ........................................
Post/posts applied for (Indicate in the order of priority) Post/posts applied for Post Number
* Agricultural Instructor - 01 1.
* Research Assistant - 02 2.
* Soil Surveyor - 03 3.
01. Name :
1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––––.
(In English capital letters) Eg. SILV A P. S.
1.2 Full name :–––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 National Identity Card Number :
1.4 Telephone No. :–––––––––––––.
02. Permanent address :
2.1 In English capital letters :–––––––––––––.
2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission should be sent :–––––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
2.4 District of permanent residence :–––––––––––––.
2.5 Divisional Secretariat Division :–––––––––––––.
03. Gender : Female 1
Male 0 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
04. 4.1 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Days :

<!-- page 60 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1940
4.2 Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years : Months : Days :
4.3 Marital status : Unmarried - 1
Married - 2 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
05. Educational qualifications (with the medium) :
(a) G . C. E. (O/L) :
First sitting Second sitting
(i) Year and Month ..................... ........................
(ii) Index Number ..................... ........................
(iii) Medium ..................... ........................
(iv) Results :
First sitting Second sitting
Subjects Pass Subjects Pass
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
(b) G . C. E. (A/L) :
Year and Month Index No. Medium Subject Pass
06. Professional qualifications :
Name of the Diploma Name of the Institution Year passed Index No. Date of validity
awarded the Diploma
07. The Divisional/District Secretariat to which the examination fee was paid :
07.1 Date of payment :–––––––––––––.
07.2 No. of the receipt :–––––––––––––.
07.3 Amount :–––––––––––––.
Please affix the receipt obtained on payment of examination fee and original of P . I. V . so as to be unglued.
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt with you)

<!-- page 61 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1941
08. I agree to abide by the conditions of this examination :
09. Declaration of the applicant :
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. I am also aware that, if an y
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified before selection or to dismissa l without any
compensation if such detection is made after appointment. Further, I hereby declare that I am subject to the rules imposed in respect of this
examination and decisions taken in respect of releasing the results by the Commissioner General of Examinations. I also certify that only one
application is submitted for the posts applied by me.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
10. Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
I hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................. who submit this application is known to me  personally
and that he/she placd his/her signature in my presence on ..............................
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Attester.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Full Name of Attester :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
Please prove by the official seal)
11. Those who are already in the Public/Provincial Public Service (strike - off the words inapplicable) :
I hereby certify that the above applicant has/has not fulfilled the all requisite qualifications to appear in this examination as per this
Gazette Notification and he/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and the receipt is affixed and he/she can/can't be/is considered to be
released from his/her present post in this Department if he/she selected.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature and Designation of Head of Department.
(Official seal)
Date :–––––––––––––.
10–37

<!-- page 62 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1942
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments t o the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements. Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 00 9,340 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 00 950 00
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 00 750 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 00 2,500 00
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 450 00
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 275 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 00 4,360 00
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 00 3,640 00
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 00 1,250 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 63 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2013
1943
IMPORTANT   NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2013
OCTOBER 04.10.2013 Friday — 20.09.2013 Friday 12 noon
11.10.2013 Friday –– 27.09.2013 Friday 12 noon
17.10.2013 Thursday –– 04.10.2013 Friday 12 noon
25.10.2013 Friday –– 11.10.2013 Friday 12 noon
NOVEMBER 01.11.2013 Friday — 17.10.2013 Thursday 12 noon
08.11.2013 Friday –– 25.10.2013 Friday 12 noon
15.11.2013 Friday –– 01.11.2013 Friday 12 noon
22.11.2013 Friday –– 08.11.2013 Friday 12 noon
29.11.2013 Friday –– 15.11.2013 Friday 12 noon
DECEMBER 06.12.2013 Friday — 22.11.2013 Friday 12 noon
13.12.2013 Friday –– 29.11.2013 Friday 12 noon
20.12.2013 Friday –– 06.12.2013 Friday 12 noon
27.12.2013 Friday –– 13.12.2013 Friday 12 noon
P. H. L. V. DE SILVA,
Acting Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January , 2013.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.