

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'19
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA -  19.12.2024
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2415$59 - 2024 foieïn¾ ui 19 jeks n%yiam;skaod  - 2024'12'19
No.  2415/59  -  thursdA y,  december  19,   2024
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
 seal
Proclamations & C., by the President 
PRESIDENTIAL DIRECTIVE
G 00000 - Proclamation President (E) (17.08.2023)
T-09 - SS
1st reading
AnurA KumArA DissAnAyAKe
1A - G 43320 — 364 (12/2024)
estAblishmeNt of a Presidential task Force to plan and implement the “clean sri lanka” Programme, by virtue of the 
powers vested in me by Article 33 of the constitution of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka.
to: 
1. dr.  N. s. Kumanayake esquire 
secretary to the President
2. commander of the Army
3. commander of the Navy
4. commander of the Air Force
5. W.l.A. saman Priyantha esquire
Acting inspector General of Police 
6. eng. Kumudu lal de silva  esquire
chairman, urban development Authority

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'19
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA -  19.12.2024
2A
7. i. s. Jayaratna esquire
8. Gihan de silva  esquire
9. madam sandya salgado
10. dr. Gamini batuwitage esquire
11. dr. Anuruddha Gamage esquire
12. dilruk Wanasinghe esquire
13. deepal sooriyaarachchi esquire 
14. sisira Amarabandu esquire 
15. Krishantha cooray esquire 
16. Jayathu Perera esquire 
17. ruwan Weerasooriya esquire 
18. dayan Karunarathna esquire
Greetings! 
WhereAs, the people of sri lanka have become victims in the context of sri lanka lagging behind not only 
economically but also politically, socially, culturally and ethically, the people’s aspirations to take the country towards a new 
renaissance by changing the situation that they have experienced thus far has been clearly reflected in the recent election results;
WHEREAS, an approach to make behavioural changes in society can be achieved by role modelling, influencing, 
providing guidance, and strongly emphasizing the need for change, the government has recognised the need to implement a 
systematic programme to steer the society towards progress;
WhereAs, the government believes that such changes make a decisive impact on the economic development of 
the country as well;
WhereAs, the government recognizes that it is essential to launch a national operation targeting a social, environ-
mental and ethical awakening in the country, as well as fulfilling a transformative initiative  ensuring the wellbeing, harmony 
and progress of the people of this country in line with the vision of “A Thriving Nation, A Beautiful Life”; 
WhereAs, a transformative initiative is required to be launched to strengthen the environmental, economic 
and social sustainability and the state machinery, and the present government has been entrusted with an unavoidable 
responsibility to act accordingly; 
ANd WhereAs, the necessity to establish a Presidential task Force to implement the “clean sri lanka 
Programme”, has been recognized at the Meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers held on December 02, 2024;
NOW, thereFOre, i, Anura Kumara dissanayake, President of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka, 
do hereby establish the Presidential task Force to plan and implement the “clean sri lanka” Programme and, reposing great 
trust and confidence in your prudence, ability and fidelity, appoint you the said :-
1. dr. N. s. Kumanayake esquire 
       secretary to the President
2. commander of the Army
3. commander of the Navy
4. commander of the Air Force
5. W.l.A. saman Priyantha esquire
Acting inspector General of Police 
6. eng. Kumudu lal de silva  esquire
chairman, urban development Authority
7. i. s. Jayaratna  esquire
8. Gihan de silva  esquire
9. madam sandya salgado

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'19
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA -  19.12.2024
3A
10. dr. Gamini batuwitage esquire
11. dr. Anuruddha Gamage esquire
12. dilruk Wanasinghe esquire
13. deepal sooriyaarachchi esquire 
14. sisira Amarabandu esquire 
15. Krishantha cooray esquire 
16. Jayathu Perera esquire 
17. ruwan Weerasooriya esquire 
18. dayan Karunarathna esquire
as the members of the said Presidential task Force to execute below mentioned tasks subject to the provisions stipulated in 
the constitution of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka and any other written laws.
The Said tasks namely;
 i. Plan, guide, implement, review the progress, and complete the “clean sri lanka” programme within a given 
time frame aiming to achieve the objectives of elevating society to a more advanced status through a social, 
environmental and ethical awakening;
 ii. create an organisational structure to facilitate the implementation of this programme from the national level to 
rural level. 
 iii.  Obtain the subject knowledge and contribution of scholars, professionals, experts and representatives of 
institutions relating to the subject areas covered by the “clean sri lanka” Programme.
 iv. Prepare a structure to engage stakeholders such as government and semi government sectors, private sector, 
research institutions, civil society organisations, non-governmental organisations, international organisations and 
development practitioners, consultancy and professional organisations, community and citizen organisations, 
mass media and communication institutions, financial institutions, religious organisations, technology providers 
and inventors, sri lankan diaspora in this programme.
 v. raise funds for the “clean sri lanka” Fund and provide the necessary instructions and guidance to manage the 
“clean sri lanka” Fund as required.
 vi.  identify programmes implemented in concurrence with this programme by various stakeholders such as 
government institutions, private sector, international organisations and institutions, non-governmental 
organisations and align them with the “clean sri lanka” Programme. 
 vii. identify and formulate legal provisions required to ensure the sustainability of the outcomes of this programme 
and establish an institutional framework to which the responsibility for enforcing such laws and rules in the 
long term is conferred upon.  
 viii.  leverage digitalisation to plan, guide, implement, review the progress and sustainably continue this programme. 
 ix. Develop and implement a multi-mode communication strategy to positively influence and engage all stakeholders.  
ANd, i appoint dr. N. s. Kumanayake esquire, secretary to the President, as the chairman of the aforesaid Presidential  
task Force and G.m.r.d. Aponsu esquire, senior Additional secretary to the President as the convener/ secretary  of the 
said t ask Force.
ANd, i do hereby authorize you, members of the Presidential task Force, to make inquiries and issue instructions 
as required for the purpose of executing the tasks so entrusted, and also to obtain the assistance of the public officers from 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'19
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA -  19.12.2024
4A
whom such assistance is intended by the Presidential task Force, subject to the provisions stipulated in the constitution of 
the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka and any other written laws.
FurthermOre, i do hereby inform you, members of the said Presidential task Force, to submit reports to me 
from time to time, in respect of the execution of the aforesaid tasks by you.
Given at colombo under the seal of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka on the 18 day of december, 
two thousand and t wenty Four. 
by order of the honourable President, 
     
 D r. N.S. K umaNayaKe , 
 secretary to the President. 
eOG 12 - 0201
            
PrINTeD aT THe DeP arTmeNT OF GOVerNmeNT PrINTING,  SrI LaNKa.