

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2441$06 - 2025 cqks ui 17 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2025'06'17
No. 2441/06 -  TUESDAY,   JUNE  17,  2025
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1A- PG 7152 - 54 (06/2025) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L.D-B. 21/78(XVI)(C)
THE  UNIVERSITIES  ACT,  N o.  16  OF  1978
ORDINANCE  made by the University Grants Commission under section 18 of the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978.
 Secretary,
 University Grants Commission.
Colombo,
12th June, 2025.
Ordinance
The Institute of Biochemistry, Molecular Biology and Biotechnology Ordinance, No. 1 of 2003 published in Gazette 
Extraordinary No. 1282/25 of April 03, 2003 is hereby amended as follows:-
 (1) in paragraph 3 thereof -
 (a) by the repeal of subparagraphs (b), (c) and (d) and the substitution therefor of the following:-
 “(b) to provide for instruction, training, research and development and consultancy in such branches of 
Biochemistry, Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Molecular Life Sciences, Bioinformatics, Cellular 
and Molecular Immunology and allied fields of study as may be approved by the Commission upon the 
recommendation of the Institute and the University;

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'06'17
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.06.2025
2A
 (c) to conduct, with the approval of the University, examinations for the purpose of ascertaining the 
persons who have acquired proficiency in Biochemistry, Molecular Biology, Biotechnology, Molecular 
Life Sciences, Bioinformatics, Cellular and Molecular Immunology and allied fields of study and to 
recommend to the University persons, who having passed such examinations and having satisfied such 
other conditions as prescribed by by-laws, are eligible for the award of degrees, diplomas, certificates 
and other academic distinctions;
 (d) to determine, with the approval of the University and with the concurrence of the Commission 
where necessary, the degrees, diplomas, certificates and other academic distinctions to be awarded in 
Biochemistry, Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Molecular Life Sciences, Bioinformatics, Cellular 
and Molecular Immunology and allied fields of study;”;
 (b) by the repeal of subparagraphs (k) and (1) and the substitution therefor of the following:-
 “(k) to demand and to receive fees in accordance with the policy of the Government and the provisions of any 
appropriate Instrument;
 (1) to conduct and engage in activities for dissemination of knowledge and skills training such as training 
courses or workshops in Biochemistry, Molecular Biology, Biotechnology, Molecular Life Sciences, 
Bioinformatics, Cellular and Molecular immunology and allied fields of study; and
 (m) to do all other acts and things, as are necessary, incidental to or conducive to carry out the powers 
specified in this paragraph.”;
 (2) in paragraph 5 thereof-
 (a) by the repeal of subparagraph (5) and the substitution therefor of the following:-
         “(5) Where the Director by reason of illness, absence from Sri Lanka or other cause, is temporarily 
unable to perform the duties of his office, the Vice Chancellor shall, within seven days of the occurrence of 
such inability, make such arrangements as he may think fit for the carrying on of the duties of the Director. 
Until such arrangements are made, a Senior academic staff member of the Institute who is not below the rank 
of a professor shall carry on the routine duties of the office.”;
 (b) by the substitution in subparagraph (6) for the words “the Registrar shall attend to the duties of Director.” of 
the words “a senior academic staff member of the Institute who is not below the rank of a professor shall attend 
to the duties of the Director.”;
 (3) in subparagraph (1) of paragraph 6 thereof by the substitution for the words “the Academic Committee of the 
Institute.” of the words “the Academic Committee and the Research and Higher Degrees Committee of the Institute.”;
 (4) by the repeal of paragraph 7 thereof and the substitution therefor of the following: -
 “07. The Institute shall comprise the following: -
 (a) the Board of Management;
 (b) the Academic Committee;
 (c) the Research and Higher Degrees Committee;
 (d) the Boards of Study of each degree, diploma or certificate programme; and
 (e) such other bodies as may be prescribed by Ordinance to be authorities of the Institute.”;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'06'17
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.06.2025
3A
 (5) by the repeal of paragraph 8 thereof and the substitution therefor of the following: -
     “08. The Board of Management (hereinafter referred to as “the Board”) shall be the academic and 
executive body of the Institute and shall consist of -
 (1) seven ex-officio members, namely -
 (a) the Director who shall be the Chairperson of the Board;
 (b) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject of Higher Education or his 
nominee not below the rank of an Additional Secretary of that Ministry;
 (c) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject of Finance or his nominee not 
below the rank of an Additional Secretary of that Ministry;
 (d) the Director, University of Colombo School of Computing;
 
 (e) the Head of the Department of Study of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology of the University;
 (f) the Dean of the Faculty of Science of the University; and
 (g) the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine of the University;
 (2) four members appointed by the Commission from among the persons who have expertise, reached 
eminence and have at least twenty years of experience in technology, education, law and administration; 
and
 (3) six nominated members, namely -
 (a) two members nominated by the Council of the University from among its members appointed by 
the Commission in terms of paragraph (vii) of subsection (1) of section 44 of the Act;
 (b) two representatives nominated by the Senate of the University from among its members and 
approved by the Council of the University;
 (c) two members nominated by the Academic Committee from among the permanent teachers of the 
Institute.”;
 (6) in paragraph 9 thereof -
 (a) by the repeal of subparagraphs (3) and (4) and the substitution therefor of the following: -
     “(3) Any nominated member of the Board may at any time resign his office by a letter addressed to the 
nominating authority with a copy to the Director.
     (4) Any appointed member of the Board may resign his office by a letter addressed to the Chairman of 
the Commission with a copy to the Director.”;
 (b) by the repeal of subparagraph (7) and the substitution therefor of the following: -
      “(7) The quorum for any meeting shall be not less that fifty per centum of the total membership of the 
Board.”;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'06'17
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.06.2025
4A
 (7) by the substitution in sub-subparagraph (g) of subparagraph (l) of paragraph 10 thereof for the words “Biochemistry, 
Molecular Biology and Biotechnology and the Courses of Study” of the words “Biochemistry, Molecular Biology 
and Biotechnology, Molecular Life Sciences, Bioinformatics, Cellular and Molecular Immunology and allied fields 
of study and the courses of study”;
 (8) in paragraph 11 thereof -
 (a) by the repeal of subparagraph (1) and the substitution therefor of the following:-
    “(1) There shall be an Academic Committee which shall consist of the following persons:-
 (a) the Director who shall be the Chairperson of the Board;
 
 (b) such teachers of the Institute imparting instruction in the Institute and other staff who have 
been confirmed in their appointment. The Secretary of the said Committee shall be appointed 
from among such confirmed teachers;
 (c) all programme coordinators and assistant programme coordinators of the Institute;
 (d) one member each appointed from among the visiting lecturers for each degree programme;
 (e) all coordinators of the joint degree programmes appointed by the respective Campuses. 
Institutes and Departments of Study of the University or other Universities conducting joint 
degree programmes with the Institute; and
 (f) Chairpersons of the Boards of Study of each degree, diploma or certificate programme.”;
 (b) by the repeal of subparagraphs (3) and (4) and the substitution therefor of the following;-
   “(3) The provisions of subparagraphs (2), (4) and (5) of paragraph 9 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to 
and in relation to each member of the Academic Committee.
   (4) The quorum for a meeting of the Academic Committee shall be not less than fifty per centum of its 
total membership, excluding co-opted members if any.”;
 (9) by the insertion immediately after paragraph 12 thereof of the following new paragraphs:-
   “12A. (1) There shall be a Research and Higher Degrees Committee which shall consist of the following 
persons:-
 (a) all permanent Professors or Senior Professors of the Institute;
 (b) three teachers in the permanent academic staff of the Institute, other than those members 
referred to in sub-subparagraph (a), nominated by the Academic Committee; and
 (c) three scientists appointed by the Board from among the persons who have performed 
distinguished service in the areas of research undertaken by the Institute.
   (2) The Chairperson shall be nominated from among all members referred to in subparagraph (1) and the 
Secretary shall be elected from among the members referred to in sub-subparagraph (b) of subparagraph (1).
   (3) The Research and Higher Degrees Committee may, with the concurrence of the Board, co-opt one or 
more than one person for a specific purpose and for a specified period, but no person so co-opted shall have the right 
to vote at any meeting of the Research and Higher Degree Committee.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'06'17
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.06.2025
5A
   (4) The provisions of the subparagraphs (2), (4) and (5) of paragraph 9 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to 
and in relation to each appointed, nominated and elected member of the Research and Higher Degrees Committee.
   (5) The quorum for a meeting of the Research and Higher Degree Committee shall be not less than fifty per 
centum of its total membership, excluding co-opted members if any.
   (6) The Research and Higher Degrees Committee shall meet whenever necessary, in any case the Committee 
shall not meet less than six occasions within each year.
 12B. (1) A Board of Study shall consist of the following persons: -
 (a) all permanent teachers of the Institute who are teaching in the respective degree, diploma or the 
certificate programme and who have been confirmed in their appointment; and
 (b) five members appointed by the Director on the recommendation of the Academic Committee and 
with the approval of the Board from among persons who have expertise, reached eminence and 
have at least twenty years of experience in Biochemistry, Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, 
Molecular Life Sciences, Bioinformatics, Cellular and Molecular Immunology and allied fields of 
study who are teaching at the Institute on visiting basis.
  (2) The Chairperson and the Secretary of the Board of Study shall be appointed from among the members 
referred to in sub-subparagraph (a) of subparagraph (1).
  (3) The respective Board of Study shall plan, implement and evaluate the taught degree, diploma or certificate 
course or the taught degree with a research component and shall be accountable to the Academic 
Committee in its planning, implementation and evaluation.”;
 (10) by the repeal of paragraph 20 thereof and the substitution therefor of the following:-
“20. In this Ordinance -
“Act” means the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978;
“appropriate Instrument” shall have the same meaning as assigned to that term in the Universities Act, No. 16 
of 1978;
“by-law” shall have the same meaning as assigned to that term in the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978;
“Higher Degrees” means MPhil (Master of Philosophy) and PhD Doctor of Philosophy) conducted by the 
Institute and awarded by the University;
“Higher Educational Institution” shall have the same meaning as assigned to that term in the Universities Act,  
No. 16 of 1978; 
“teacher” shall have the same meaning as assigned to that term in the Universities Act,  
No. 16 of 1978; and 
“University Grants Commission” means the University Grants Commission established under section 2 of the 
Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978.”
 
EOG  06 - 0124
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.