

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
                               PAGE
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
                               PAGE 
Land Sales by the Settlement Ofﬁ cers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... 180
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 180
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
wxl 2136- 2019 wf.daia;= ui 09 jeks isl=rdod - 2019'08'09                                                            
No. 2136 - FRIDAY ,  AUGUST 09,  2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notiﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertain ing to notiﬁ cation 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  No-
tices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  30th August, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 16th August, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 GANGANI LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
179- B 81549 -353 (2019/08)
Note.–    (i) Value Added Tax (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of July 26, 2019.
 (ii) Nation Building Tax (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of July 26, 2019.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.08.2019
180
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
Land Development Ordinance Notices
NOTIFICATION OF CANCELLING THE 
GRANT ISSUED UNDER THE SUB SECTION 
(4) OF  SECTION 19 UNDER THE LAND 
DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE. (SECTION 104) 
 I, T. G. D. Nilangi Dias,  Divisional Secretary,  Divisional 
Secretariat Division, Niyagama, Galle District of the Southern 
Provincial Council do hereby inform that the land depicted in 
the below mentioned schedule which has already been granted 
to  Buthvita Lekamlage Karunawathie, resided at Godamuna, 
Under the grant No. 2/ .d/13/mar/45395 and L. L. 11580 
by His Excellency the president under sec. 19(4) of Land 
Development Ordinance and been registered under No. 1254 
dated 04.06.1997 is reported to have no successors as to not 
having a lawful owner or even though there is a successor, he/
she has not agreed to be a successor and therefore, the actions 
are being measured to cancel the said grant under sec. 104 of 
the said Ordinance. Any Objection hereof should be notiﬁ ed 
to me in writing on or before 26.08.2019.
The Aforesaid Appendix
The allotment of State Land named as Walvilakanda situated 
in the Village of  Godamuna in the Grama Niladhari Division 
of 33 A Godamuna South, Bentharawalallawita (South) 
Korale, Divisonal Secretary's Division of Niyagama of the 
Administrative District, Galle and depicted in the Blocking 
out Plan No. F.V .P. 598  computed to contain in extent 03 
Roods, 23 Perches and bounded as below :
On the North by  : Gravel Road;
On the East by  :  Leased Land of Diyonis;
On the South by  : Land of Arnold;
On the West by  : Leased Land of Prema.
Date : 24th April 2019.
 
 
T. G. D. N
ILANGI DIAS, 
Divisional Secretary/ 
Deputy Land 
Commissioner 
(Inter Provincial). 
 
 
 
08-298
Land Commissioner’ s No. : 4/10/29270.
Provincial Land Commissioner's  No.: CPC/LC/
LD/4/1/28/106.
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  
LAND  REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby noti ﬁ ed that for the  Purpose of cultivation,                            
Mr. Ratnabahu Mudiyansela Gedara Senevirathna  has 
requested on lease a state land containing in extent about - 
Acre, 02 Rood, - Perch out of extent marked a Potation of lot 
230/471 as depicted in the leasing  No. F.V .P. 90 and situated in 
the Village of Dembawa which belongs to the Grama Niladhari 
Division of Dembawa coming within the area of authority 
of Galewela Divisional Secretariat in the District of Matale.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
On the North by : The land of B. M. Kalu Banda and the 
road ;
On the East by : The land of K. P. Kirihenda;
On the  South by :  The land of K. P. Dissanayake;
On the West by :  Reservation along the Magal Potta 
rock.
03.  The land requested can be given on lease for the 
necessary purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended 
to lease out the land subject to other Government approved 
conditions and the following conditions. : -
 
 ( a) Term of the Lease .– Thirty Years,  (30) ( Since 
15.06.1995).
(b) The Annual  amount of the Lease.– 4% of  Undeveloped 
value of the Land as per valuation of the Chief Valuer. 
This amount of the lease must be quinquennially 
revised in such a manner that the amount as a result 
of the revision will be not less than 50% of the amount 
that just preceded.
  Penalty :- Treble 4% of the developed value of the 
land.
 ( c) The  lessees must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop the said land, in such a manner as 
to mind of the Divisional Secretary.

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.08.2019 181
 ( d) The lessees must not use this land for any purpose other 
than for the purpose of Cultivation.
 ( e) The lease must also be subjected to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional 
Secretary.
 (f) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair.
 (g) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of the lessees to substantiate within 
the speci ﬁ ed time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease;
 ( h) No Sub-leasing can be done until the expiry of  a 
minimum period of 05 years.
 ( i) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
  If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date herein below to the effect 
that this  land must not be given on lease, the land will 
be leased out as requested.
  P. D. I. L. W
IJEGUNAWARDHANA,
 Deputy  Land Commissioner,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner’s Department,
No. 07, Gregory's Avenue,
Colombo 07.
09th August, 2019.
08-299
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.