

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2015
485
485
wxl 1"908 - 2015 ud¾;= ui 27 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'03'27
No. 1,908 – FRIDAY , MARCH 27, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 488
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 493
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 17th April, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 02nd April,
2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.—   Part III of the Gazette No. 1,907 of 20.03.2015 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2015
486
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2015
487
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) D isqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2015
488
Posts – Vacant
DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  INFORMATION
Recruitment to Posts of Editor (Sinhala/Tamil/English) in
the Publication Unit of the Department of Government
Information (on Contractual Basis)
APPLICATIONS are called from qualified candidates for
recruitment to the Posts of Editor (Sinhala/Tamil/English) in the
publication unit of the Department of Government Information
(on contractual basis).
1. 'Director General' in this notice refers to the Director General
of Government Information.
2. Structured Examination.– The date of the examination will be
decided by the Director General of Information.
Fields considered in granting marks Maximum Marks
Additional Educational Quailfications 40
Additional Professional Qualifications 25
Additional Professional Experience 30
Skill demonstrated in the interview 05
Total 100
3. Number of Appointments. – Steps will be taken to fill 03
vacancies of Posts of Editor (Sinhala/Tamil/English) in the
publication Unit of the Department of Government Information
(on contractual basis).
4. Effective date of appointments .– The date will be decided by
the Director General of Government Information.
5. Service Conditions.– Selected candidates will be appointed to
the post of Editor subject to general conditions governing public
service appointments, conditions and regulations in the recruitment
procedure of the post of Editor (Sinhala/Tamil/English) at the
Publication Unit of the Department of Government Information
(on contractual basis) approved by the Public Service Commission
on 09.05.2014 and amendments already done and would be done in
the future to the Recruitment procedure.
6. The Public Service Commission has the authority to cancel
the appointments of candidates who fail to assume duties on the
due date and/or who reject or avoid to assume duties.
7. Monthly Allowance.– Rs. 25,000.
8. Qualifications at the closing date of applications :
(i) Educational Qualifications.– Obtaining a degree from a
university recognized by the University Grant
Commission or an institution recognized by the
University Grant Commission as a degree offering
institution.
(ii) Professional Qualifications .– Should have successfully
completed a Diploma course in editing publications or in
a related field, which the course duration is not less than
one year from an institution acknowledged by the
Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission.
(iii) Experience.– A  minimum 03 years experience in editing
of articles in a publishing institution registered in the
government.
(iv) Physical Qualifications .– Each candidate should be
physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri
Lanka and to discharge duties of the post.
(v) Other :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(ii) Should possess an excellent character,
(iii) All qualifications in regard to the appointment to
the post should be duly completed.
9. Age :
Minimum limit : 18 years
Maximum limit : 55 years
10. Method of Application :
(a) It should be peculiarly concerned that the applications
should be prepared according to the specimen form of
application attached to this notice in an A4 sheet.
Application should be filled in with candidates own
handwriting. Applications that do not comply with the
specimen form of application and incomplete
appilcations will be rejected without notification. It
will be useful to keep a photocopy of the application.
Candidate must check whether the duly filled in
application complies with the specimen form of
application. Otherwise, it may be rejected.
(b) Completed applications should be sent by registered
post to reach the Department of Government
Information, No. 163, Kirulapona Avenue, Colombo 05
before 24.04.2015. "Recruitment to the post of Editor
at the Department of Government Information on
Contractual Basis" should be clearly cited on the top
left hand corner of the envelope, in whcih the application
form is enclosed. Applications received after the closing
date will not be accepted.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2015
489
(c) Incomplete applications in any manner will be rejected.
Complaints on misplacements or delays will not be
entertained.
11. If any candidate was found guilty of providing any false
information or suppressing any important information purposely,
he/she is liable to be dismissed.
12. Matters not covered by these regulations will be determined
by the Public Service Commission.
Director General of Government Information,
Powers Delegated by the Public Service Commission,
Department of Government Information.
Department of Government Information,
No. 163, Kirulapona Avenue,
Colombo 05,
10th March, 2015.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
(For official use only)
R
ECRUITMENT TO POSTS OF EDITOR (SINHALA/TAMIL/ENGLISH) IN
THE PUBLICATION UNIT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT
INFORMATION (ON CONTRACTUAL BASIS)
01. Medium :
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2
English - 3
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
02. Personal Information :
1. Name with initials in English block letters, stating initials
at the end : Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
E. g.– SILV A, A. B.
2. Name in full in English block letters :––––––––––––.
3. Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
4. Personal Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
5. Gender :
Male -  0
Female -  1
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
6. Civil status :
Unmarried - 1
Married - 2
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
7. Ethnicity :
(Sinhala - 1,  Tamil  - 2,  Ind. Tamil - 3,
Muslim - 4,  Other - 5)
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
8. National Identity Card No. :
9. Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
10. Age at the closing date of applications :
Years : Months : Days :
11. Telephone Number (If available) :
03. Educational Qualifications :
University Degree Date of validation Subjects
of the degree
04. Professional Qualifications :
Institution Diploma Date of validation Duration
of the diploma
05. Experience :––––––––––––.
06. Certification of the applicant :
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2015
490
07. Attestation of the signature :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................. who is
submitting this application is known to me personally and he/she
placed his/her signature in my presence on .................
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the officer attesting.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
(The signature of the applicant should be attested by a Principal
of a Government School/Justice of the Peace/Commissioner for
Oaths/Attorney-at-Law/Notary Public/a Commissioned Officer of
the Army, Navy or Air Force or a Government Officer receiving a
monthly consolidated salary greater than Rs. 22,935).
03–891
––––––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  INFORMATION
Recruitment to Post of Design Editor in Publication Unit
of the Department of Government Information
(on Contractual Basis)
APPLICATIONS are called from qualified candidates for
recruitment to the Posts of Design Editor in the publication unit of
the Department of Government Information (on contractual basis).
1. 'Director General' in this notice refers to the Director General
of Government Information.
2. Structured Examination.– The date of the examination will be
decided by the Director General of Government Information.
Fields considered in granting marks Maximum Marks
Additional Educational Quailfications 40
Additional Professional Qualifications 25
Additional Professional Experience 30
Skill demonstrated in the interview 05
Total 100
3. Number of appointments. – Steps will be taken to fill 01
vacancy of Post of Design Editor in the publication Unit of the
Department of Government Information.
4. Effective date of appointments .– The date will be decided by
the Director General of Information of the Department of
Government Information.
5. Service Conditions. – A selected candidate will be appointed
to the post of Design Editor subject to general conditions governing
public service appointmetns, conditions and regulations in the
Recruitment procedure of the post of Design Editor in the
publication unit of the Department of Government Information
(on contractual basis) approved by the Public Service Commission
on 08.05.2014, and amendments already done and would be done in
the future to the Recruitment Procedure.
6. The Public Service Commission has the authority to cancel
the appointments of candidates who fail to assume duties on the
due date and/or who reject or avoid to assume duties in the appointed
post.
7. Monthly Allowance.– Rs. 25,000.
8. Qualifications : at the closing date of applications :
(i) Educational Qualifications.– Obtaining a degree from a
university recognized by the University Grant
Commission or an institution recognized by the
University Grant Commission as a degree offering
institution.
(ii) Professional Qualifications .– Should have successfully
completed a Diploma course in Design Editing or in a
related field, which the course duration is not less than
one year from an institution acknowledged by the
Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission.
(iii) Experience.– A minimum 03 years experience in Design
Editing related tasks in a publishing institution registered
in the government.
(iv) Physical Qualifications .– Each candidate should be
physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri
Lanka and to discharge duties of the post.
(v) Other :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(ii) Should possess an excellent character,
(iii) All qualifications in regard to the appointment to
the post should be duly completed.
9. Age :
Minimum limit : 18 years
Maximum limit : 55 years
10. Method of Application :
(a) It should be peculiarly concerned that the applications
should be prepared according to the specimen form of
application attached to this notice in an A4 sheet.
Application should be filled in with candidates own

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2015
491
hand writing. Applications that do not comply with the
specimen form of application and incomplete
appilcations will be rejected without notification. It
will be useful to keep a photocopy of the application.
Candidate must check whether the duly filled in
application complies with the specimen form of
application. Otherwise, it may be rejected.
(b) Completed applications should be sent by registered
post to reach the Department of Government
Information, No. 163, Kirulapona Avenue, Colombo 05
before 24.04.2015. "Recruitment to the post of Design
Editor in the Department of Government Information
on Contractual Basis" should be clearly cited on the top
left hand corner of the envelope, in which the application
form is enclosed. Applications received after the closing
date will not be accepted.
(c) Incomplete applications in any manner will be rejected.
Complaints on misplacements or delays will not be
entertained.
11. If any candidate was found guilty of providing any false
information or suppressing any important information purposely,
he/she is liable to be dismissed.
12. Matters not covered by these regulations will be determined
by the Public Service Commission.
Director General of Government Information,
Powers Delegated by the Public Service Commission,
Department of Government Information.
Department of Government Information,
No. 163, Kirulapona Avenue,
Colombo 05,
10th March, 2015.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
(For official use only)
RECRUITMENT  TO POST OF DESIGN EDITOR IN THE PUBLICATION
UNIT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT INFORMATION
(ON CONTRACTUAL BASIS)
01. Medium :
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2
English - 3
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
02. Personal Information :
2.1. Name with initials in English block letters, stating initials
at the end : Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
E. g.– SILV A, A. B.
2.2. Name in full in English block letters :––––––––––––.
2.3. Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.4. Personal Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.5. Gender :
Male -  0
Female -  1
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.6. Civil status :
Unmarried - 1
Married - 2
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.7. Ethnicity :
(Sinhala - 1,  Tamil  - 2,  Ind. Tamil - 3,
Muslim - 4,  Other - 5)
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.8. National Identity Card No. :
2.9. Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
2.10. Age at the closing date of applications :
Years : Months : Days :
2.11. T elephone Number (If available) :
03. Educational Qualifications :
University Degree Date of validation Subjects
of the degree

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2015
492
04. Professional Qualifications :
Institution Diploma Date of validation Duration
of the diploma
05. Experience :––––––––––––.
06. Certification of the applicant.
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
07. Attestation of the signature :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................. who is
submitting this application is known to me personally and he/she
placed his/her signature in my presence on .................
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the officer attesting.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
(The signature of the applicant should be attested by a Principal
of a Government School/Justice of the Peace/Commissioner for
Oaths/Attorney-at-Law/Notary Public/a Commissioned Officer of
the Army, Navy or Air Force or a Government Officer receiving a
monthly consolidated salary greater than Rs. 22,935).
03–892
––––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
GAMPAHA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 27th Apr il, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
09th March, 2015.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2015
493
FIRST  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR
OFFICERS  IN  GRADE II OF  CLASS  III,  REGISTRAR
SERVICES  2014(2015)
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination for the
officers in Grade II of Class III Registrar Service of Registrar Generals
Department in the month of July 2015 as per the provisions of
Section 8 of the approved service minute of officers of Grade II of
Class III, Registrar Service of Registrar Generals Department in
reference to the No. NSCC/6/25/090/SR of Public Service Commission
and dated 26.08.2011.
2. This examination for officers of Grade II of Class III, Registrar
Service will be held in Colombo.
3. (i) This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and the candidates will be bound by the
rules and regulations imposed by him with regard to the same.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been separately
printed in the Gazette Notification. Candidates will be subjected to
any punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations for violation of these rules and regulations.
4. Eligibility.– Officers who have been appointed to posts of
Grade II of Class III, Registrar Service are eligible to appear for this
examination.
5. The application for this examination should be in the form of
the specimen appended to this notification and should be prepared
by the candidate him/her self. Applications should be sent by the
Registered post through the respective Heads of Departments to
reach the Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and
Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations, P . O.
1503, Colombo on or before 24.04.2015 therefore the application
should be submitted to Registrar General on or before 17.04.2015.
Name of the examination should be indicated at the top left hand
corner of the envelope containing the application. Applications
received after the closing date and incomplete applications will be
rejected.
6. Identity of the candidates.– Candidates will be required to prove
their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of the
following documents should be submitted to the supervisor :
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registrations of Persons,
(ii) A valid passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above
mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
7. Applications.– Applications should be prepared in a paper of
A4 size in such a manner that para Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appear on the first
page and remains from 6.0 to the other pages. The applications could
be typewritten but it should be filled in correctly and legibly by
candidate's own handwriting.
Application should strictly conform to the specimen appended
and candidates are advised to send one application and not to send
photocopies of the application. Applications that do not comply
with the specimen and that have not been perfected properly will be
rejected without notice. Please indicate the title of the examination
appearing the specimen in English language as well, on both Sinhala
and Tamil application forms. It is the responsibility of the candidate
to make sure that the application form perfected by him/her complies
with the specimen given in the examination notice and further it
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed application
form.
Officers appearing for the examination for the first time need not
pay examination fees, However for subsequent sittings, the applicants
need to pay due examination fees.
For whole examination - Rs. 400.00
For one subject - Rs. 200.00
The examination fee should be credited to the revenue head 2003-
02-13 of Commissioner General of Examinations at any post office/
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Gampaha Minuwangoda Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Aluthkuru Korale North and General, District Secretariat,
Birth and Deaths of Horampella Gampaha.
Division
03–728

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2015
494
Sub post office in the Island and the receipt obtained should be
affixed to the application. The examination fee cannot be paid by
stamps or money order and under no circumstances ; the fee will be
transferred in respect of any other examination.
8.0 The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue copies
of the time table and admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been received. A notification will be published in
newspapers as soon as the admission cards are issued to the
candidates.
If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such
advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the Department of
Examinatiosn in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would
be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the
Department of Examinations stating your Full Name, Address,
National Identity Card Number and Name of the Examination : i. e.
certified photocopies of the application form and the receipt kept at
your possession. In case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of
request furnishing the above particulars and a fax number to which a
copy of the admission card is to be sent should be sent to the
Department of Examinations thorugh fax. Candidates should get
their signature on the admission card attested in advance and surrender
to the supervisor of the examination hall.
Note.– Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled the
qualifications to sit the examination.
9.0 The Heads of Departments should approved duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner General of Examinations, enabling them to appear for
the examination. No traveling expenses will be paid.
10.0 The examination will be held in Sinhala and Tamil languages.
Candidates can sit for the examination in the language medium in
which they sat for the entry examination to the relevant service or in
an official language. In case of candidates who entered the service
without a competitive examination can sit for the examination in the
language medium of their education or in an official language. It will
not be allowed to change the language medium of examination applied
for, subsequently.
11.0 Officers may appear separately for each subject at different
occasions at their discretion. However, they should score at least
forty percent (40%) of the total marks allocated for each subject for
a pass.
12.0 For the purpose of the official language policy, all officers
should prepare and fill the application forms in the official language.
13.0 The Commissioner - General of Examinations will release
the results of the examination to the Registrar General and the lists of
names of the candidates who have passed the exam will be published
in Website of Registrar General’s Department.
14.0 Examination Procedure.– Candidates should sit for a written examination, which will consist of the following subjects :
Subject No. Su bject Duration  Total Marks Pass Mark
01 Office Systems 3 hours 100 40
02 Accounting Systems 3 hours 100 40
14.1 Name of the Paper Syllabus
Office Systems ( a) Chapter iii, iv, v, vi, vii, viii, ix, xii, xiii, xiv, xv, xvi, xvii, xxvi, xxvii and
xxviii of Establishments Code.
(b) Procedural rules of Public Service Commission
Accounting Systems ( a) Chapter i, ii, iii, iv, v, vi, vii, viii of Financial Regulations.
(b) Governemnt Procurement Procedure
* Work/supply/services
* Inventory/Assets Accounting, safeness and board of survey
15.0 This examination notification will be published in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages and in case of any inconsistency
among text, the Sinhala text shall prevail. Any matter not referred to herein will be decided by the Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
27th March, 2015.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2015
495
Specimen  Application  Form
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS
IN GRADE II OF CLASS III, REGISTRAR SERVICES
2014(2015)
Medium :
(Write the relevant letter in the cage)
(Sinhala - 2) (Tamil - 3)
01. 1.1 Last name followed with initials :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
Ex. : GUNAWARDHANA, M. G . B. S. K.
1.2 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 Names denoted by initials :–––––––––––.
(In Engilsh block capitals)
1.4 Names dentoed by initials :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
02. Place of work and address :–––––––––––.
2.1 Name and address of the Office/Department/Institution :
–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.2 Name and address of the Office/Department/Institution :
–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the Admission card should be sent (In
English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
03. Sex :
Female - 1
Male - 0
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
04. National Identity Card No. :
05. Subject/s to which you sit for :
Subject Subject No.
06. Present Post :
6.1 Post :–––––––––––.
6.2 Appointment letter number :–––––––––––.
6.3 Date of appointment to in Grade II of Class III Registrar
Services :–––––––––––.
07. Certification of the Applicant :
I declare that the information furnished above is correct and I am
eligible to sit for the examination in the language medium mentioned
above. I agree to abide by the decisions taken by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and all provisions in the Examination Act in
respect of the holding examination.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
Note.– Candidate should place his/her signature in the presence of
his/her respective Head of Department or an officer assigned
to sign on behalf of him.
Attestation of Signature
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................. who is an
employee of my work station, is personally known to me and placed
his/her signature in my presence on ..........................
Further he/she has paid the relevant examination fee and the
receipt is affixed in the application.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of the
Person attesting.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
I certify that,
(i) The information furnished above was verified ;
(ii) He/She is eligible to appear for this examination ;
(iii) He/She is appearing for this examination for the .............
––––––––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of the
Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name of the Attester :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
03–800

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2015
496
(iv) New entrant officer to the public service will be subject to
a probation period of three (03) years.
(v) Candidates who are already in Public Service will be
appointed on acting basis for one year.
(vi) Candidates should pass the written Efficiency Bar
Examination before lapse of 3 years from appointment
held by any institution approved by the Registrar General.
No exemption from this Efficiency Bar will be granted on
the basis of age.
(vii) On confirmation in the post the officers selected from the
Public Service will cease to be a member of the former
service and will have no right of reversion to that service.
04. Salary Scale.– MN-5-2006(A) - Rs. 16,720 - 10x320 -
11x 365 -  15x450  - Rs. 30,685 (Circular 6/2006(iv)).
05. Age limit.– Applicants should not be less than 21 years and
not more than 35 years of age on the closing date of application
(therefore the birthday of the candidates who are illegible to apply
for the post should be on or before the date 24.04.1994 and or after
the date 24.04.1980)
06. Qualifications.– The following qualifications should have
completed as at 24.04.2015.
(i) Applicants should be Sri Lankan and applicants should
have good character and liable to work in any part of Sri
Lanka and should be mentally and physically fit to
serve in any part of the Sri Lanka.
(ii) Graduate from a University recognized by University
Grants Commission ; or
(iii) Attorney-at-law who have passed the final examination
of the Law College and have completed all required
qualifications as an Attorney-at-Law.
07. Method of recruitment.– Selections will be made at an interview
held for the highest scorers of the competitive examination conducted
by the Commissioner General of Examination for the quailfied
candidates who were selected after calling for applications through a
notice in the Government Gazette. 40% of marks should be obtained
in each subject in order to pass the examination. Candidates who
have the highest aggregate of marks will be summoned for an interview
in the descending order of such marks, the interview will  be held
only for the purpose of scrutiny of certificates.
08. Examination Fee.– The examination fee is Rs. 600.
The receipt obtained on payment of this fee to the District/
Divisional Secretariat under the revenue Head No. 2003-02-13 the
Commissioner General of Examination before the closing date of
applications should be pasted from the edge, in the relevant place
given in the application. Money orders or stamps will not accept as
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Open Competitive Examination for Grade II of Class III
Registrar Service - 2014(2015)
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited for recruitment to the Posts of
Registrar Grade II of Class III, Registrar Service of Registrar General's
Department.
02. Examination.– Recruitment will be made according the highest
marks of the result of written exam conduct by Commissioner General
of Examination in July, 2015. Exam will be held in the towns and the
numbers denoting the town given below. Commissioner General of
exam has the power to cancel and change the exam center according
to the second choice of the candidate, where there is no enough
appliction as required or any other reason, further the Commissioner
General of Exam has the power to held the exam only in Colombo
where there is no enough application to the other all or majority of
denoted towns.
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 05
Galle 07
Jaffna 10
Ampara 16
Anuradhapura 19
Badulla 21
Ratnapura 24
Head of the Department regard the power to postponed or cancel
the exam.
03. Conditions of Service.– Recruitment to the Grade II of Class
III of Registrar Service will be made subject to the general conditions
governing appointments in the Public Service and on the following
conditions :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected
candidates should make contribution to the Widow/
Widower and Orphans Pension Fund.
(ii) Establishment Code, Financial Regulations, the orders
already made and orders that may be issued from time to
time under rules and regulations of this will apply on this
regard.
Selections 10 to 12 of Chapter 11 of the Establishments
Code and regulations under Chapter 1 of Public Service
Commission of Republic of Sri Lanka will also apply on
this regard.
(iii) An officer appointed to service should undergo a training
as determined by the authorities of the appointment.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2015
497
the exam fee and fee is not refundable and cannot transfer to any
other exam. Retaining a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate
will be useful in future.
09. Method of application :
(a) The application should be in conformity with the
specimen appended to this notice. Name of examination
indicated at the top of the specimen application should
be written in English in addition to Sinhala in the Sinhala
application and should be written in English in addition
to Tamil in the Tamil application. It should be prepared
on a paper sized 8 1/2" x 12" using both sides. Nos.
1-6 in the specimen application should be included in
page 01 and the rest in page 02. The application which
are not in conformity with the specimen and not
complete will be rejected without prior notice. Further
informed that the candidate should inquire whether the
application is conformable to the specimen and
application will be rejected otherwise. It may be useful
to retain a photocopy of the application by the
candidate.
(b) The application should be filled in the language in which
the candidate is eligible to sit for the examination.
(c) The applications for the post should be sent under the
registered cover to the Commissioner General of
Examinations Sri Lanka, Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or before 24.04.2015.
“Competitive examination for Grade II of Class III,
Registrar Service - 2014(2015)”  should be clearly written
on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing
the application. Applications received after the closing
date will not be accepted.
Note.– Candidates in the Public Service/Provincial
Public Service should send their applications through
the respective Heads of their Department/
Organization.
(d) Applications which have not been duly completed will
be rejected. No complaints regarding applications lost
or delayed in the post will be entertained.
(e) Receipt of an application will not be acknowledged.
Commissioner General of Examinations will send the
admission cards by post to the candidates who have
dully filled and send before the closing date. A paper
notice will be published by the Department of
Examinations once the admission issued. A candidate,
who does not receive the admission card at least five
days before the date of examination, should be notified
to the Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of examinations with the following
particulars :
Name of the Examination
Full name of the candidate
Identity Card No.
Address
If the candidate is out of Colombo, mentioning a fax number along
with the other details and fax the request letter to the given number
in the notice will be benefitted to obtain the copy of admission soon.
In such instance, copies of the letter of request and the registration
receipt should be retained with the candidate.
10. Admission to the Examination Centre :
(i) A candidate who presents himself to the examination
must produce his admission card with the attested
signature to the Supervisor of the examination center. A
candidate who fails to produce his admission card will
not be permitted to sit for the examination.
(ii) A candidate must sit for the examination at the
examination hall assigned to him. Every applicant
should observe the general rules and regulations that
should be observed by the candidates for examinations.
(iii) The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that he or she has the requisite
qualifications to sit for the examination.
11. Identity of the candidate. – A candidate will be required to
prove his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject he offers. For this purpose any of the
following documents will be accepted :
(i) An Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid passport issued not more than three years prior
to the date of examination.
12. Furnishing false information :
(a) If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is
liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to or during or
after the examination.
(b) Examination is will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and candidates are bound by
the rules prescribe by him for conducting the examination
and breach of these rules is a punishable act.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2015
498
13. Any matter not provided for in this notification will be dealt with as determined by the Public Service Commission.
14. Method of examination :
(i) Medium :
(a) Candidate may apply for the examination in one of two mediums, i. e. : Sinhala/Tamil.
(b) Every candidate should answer the question papers in the langauge which is stated in the application.
(c) No candidate will be allowed to change the medium of langauge indicated in his/her application.
(ii) Subjects and syllabus :
Following subjects should be passed in the written exam :
Subject Subject No. Time  Maximum Marks Pass Marks
Intelligence 01 01 hour 100 40
General Knowledge 02 01 hour 100 40
Language and Essay 03 01 hour 100 40
Syllabus :
Question Paper Syllabus
Intelligence The question paper designed to test the candidate’s rational and
The paper is consisted with 50 multiple choice method analytical skills and ability to arrive at rational conclusion in
questions and small questions. Answers should be given association with non-verbal clues.
to all questions.
General knowledge The question paper designed to test the candidate's knowledge about
The paper is consisted with 50 multiple choice method social and  cultural styles of Sri Lanka, locally and internationally
questions and small questions answers should be given to important current affairs and scientific and technical development.
all questions
Language and Essay The question paper designed to test the candidate’s knowledge of
The paper is consisted with small questions and essay inquiring, arranging and presenting of views to given topics/themes
type questions answers should be given to all questions.
15. If it seems that there is a contradiction in the notices published in, Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums, in such case the  Sinhala
medium notice will be considered.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
27th March, 2015.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2015
499
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
REGISTRAR GENERAL’S DEPARTMENT OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION
FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF REGISTRARS GRADE II OF CLASS III
REGISTRAR SERVICE - 2014(2015)
For official use only
Medium :
(Write the relevant letter in the cage)
(Sinhala - 2) (Tamil - 3)
* Mentioned the Town and No. as given in the Gazette.
Town Town No.
1
2
01. (i) Last name followed with initials (in English block capitals)
:–––––––––––––.
Ex. : GUNAWARDHANA M. G . B. S. K.
(ii) Names denoted by initials :–––––––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
(iii) Full Name (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
02. Full Address :–––––––––––––.
(i) Permanent residence address :–––––––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
(ii) Permanent residence district :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Address to which the Admission card should be sent (in
English block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
03. Sex :
Female - 1
Male - 0
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
04. Marital Status :
Married - 1
Single - 2
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
05. National Identity Card No. :
06. (i) Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(ii) Age as at 24.04.2015 :
Years : Months : Days :
07. Under which paragraph of the notice of examination do you
qualify to apply for the examination ? 6(II) or 6(III) :
7.1 If under para (II) :
Degree :–––––––––––––.
Qualified Date :–––––––––––––.
7.2 If under para (II) :
Date of affirmation at Supreme Court as Attorney-at-Law :
–––––––––––––.
08.
Affix the receipt of the payment here firmly.
Particulars of receipt :
(i) Office where the payment done  :–––––––––––––.
(ii) No. and date of receipt :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :–––––––––––––.
09. Certificate of the candidate :
I certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief all the
information given in this form is true and I have affixed cash receipt
No. ....................... dated ...................... in payment of the examination
fee. I declare that I am bound by the rules and regulations imposed
by the Commissioner General of Examinations in relation to conduct
of this examination and accept any decision taken on cancelling my
candidature if I am found to be ineligible for this position before,
during or after the examination and is liable to be dismissed from the
service without any compensation if the detection is made after
appointment.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :–––––––––––––.
10. Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................... who forwards
this application is personally known to me and he/she has paid the
relevant examination fee and the receipt is affixed in the application.
He/she signed this document on ...................... 2015 before me.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Name of the Attester :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
11. Certificate by the Head of Department :
I certificate that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................. is employed
as .......................... in the .......................... and the information given
by him/her in this application are true and correct. In the event he/
she is selected to this post he/she can/cannot be released.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Official Stamp :–––––––––––––.
03–801
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.