

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of August 20, 2021
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 23.08.2021)
INDIRA CANCER TRUST (INCORPORATION)
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Manusha Nanayakkara, M.P.
for Galle District
Price : Rs. 18.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
A
to incorporate the Indira Cancer Trust
(Private Members’ Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Indira Cancer Trust (Incorporation)
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE  INDIRA CANCER TRUST
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “Indira
Cancer Trust” has  heretofore been established in Sri Lanka
for the purpose of effectually  carrying out  its objects and
transacting all matters connected with the said Association
according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has  applied to
be incorporated and it will be for public advantage to grant
the said application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Indira Cancer Trust
(Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2021.
2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons now are members of the Indira
Cancer Trust (hereinafter referred to as the “Trust”) and shall
hereafter be admitted as members of the body corporate hereby
constituted shall have  perpetual succession under the name
and style of the “Indira Cancer Trust” (hereinafter  referred to
as the “body corporate”) and by that name may sue and be
sued with full  power and authority to have and use a common
seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a Voluntary
Social Service Organization within the meaning and for the
purpose of the Voluntary Social Services Organization
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to the
management of the affairs of the body corporate.
Short title
10
Preamble
5
15
20
25
Incorporation
of the Indira
Cencer Trust

<!-- page 3 -->

Indira Cancer Trust (Incorporation)2
3. The general objects for which the body corporate is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to reduce the number of cancer cases and deaths and
improve the quality of life of cancer patients through
prevention, early detection, diagnosis, treatment and
palliation;
(b) to initiate cost effective long term strategies for cancer
and 30-50% of all cancer cases are preventable;
(c) to increases the chances of successful treatment by
focusing on detecting symptomatic patients as earliest
possible stage;
(d) to assist to cure or considerably prolog the life of
patients and to ensure the best possible quality of life
for cancer survivors;
(e) to improve access to palliative care with an emphasis
on primary health care and community/home based
care; and
(f) to assist in improving the mental, social and in general
the quality of life of cencer sufferers and their families.
4. The objects of the body corporate shall be carried out
in such manner so as not to create any conflict between the
work of the body corporate and any work being carried out
simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of the
Government or of any Provincial Council.
5. (1) The affairs of the body corporate shall, subject to
the provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the body corporate be administered by a Board of
Directors (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”)  consisting
of Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer elected in accordance
with the rules.
10
5
15
20
25
Body
corporate to
ensure no
conflict with
work of
Ministry or
Department
of the
Government
or Provincial
Council
Management
of the affairs
of the body
Corporate
General
objects of the
body
corporate
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Indira Cancer Trust (Incorporation)
(2) The first Board of Directors of the body corporate shall
consist of the members of the Committee of Management
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
6. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any other
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion or
furtherance of all and any object of the body corporate or any
one of them, including the powers to open, operate or close
bank accounts, to borrow or raise moneys with or without
security, to receive or collect or accept grants and donations,
to invest its funds and to engage, employ and dismiss officers
and servants required for the carrying out of the objects of
the body corporate.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from time
to time, at any annual general meeting of the body corporate
and by a majority of not less than two - thirds of the members
present and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters :—
(a) the classification of members and the admission,
expulsion, removal or withdrawal of members;
(b) the election of office bearers, the resignation from
office, vacation of or removal from  office of office
bearers and their  powers, functions and duties;
(c) the procedure to be followed for the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board of Directors
and of the time, places, notices  and agenda of such
meetings, the quorum thereof and the conduct of
business thereof;
(d) the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,
conduct, duties and functions   of the various officers,
agents and servants of the body corporate;
10
5
15
20
25
30
Powers of the
body
corporate
Rules of the
body
corporate

<!-- page 5 -->

Indira Cancer Trust (Incorporation)4
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the body corporate; and
(f) the management of the affairs of the body corporate,
and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may be
amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and
in like manner, as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The rules made under this section shall be published
in the Gazette within three months upon making of such
rules and shall come into effect on the date thereof.
(4) The members of the body corporate shall at all times
be subject to the rules of the body corporate.
8. The Board shall maintain a register of members in
which the name, address and other essential details of the
members shall be inscribed.
9. (1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.
(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,
donations, subscriptions, fees or grants for and on account of
the body corporate shall be deposited in one or more banks
approved by the Board to the credit of the body corporte
subject to the provisions of section 6.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums of
money as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by
the body corporate in the exercise, performance and discharge
of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
10. (1) The financial year of the body Corporate shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts  to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of such body corporate.
10
5
15
20
25
Accounts and
auditing
Register of
members
Fund of the
body
corporate
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5Indira Cancer Trust (Incorporation)
(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited
annually by the Auditor-General or a qualified auditor
appointed by the Auditor-General in terms of the provisions
of Article 154 of the Constitution and be certified by the
Auditor-General or such qualified auditor.
(4) For the purposes of this section “qualified auditor”
means-
(a) an individual who, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or of any other Institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
accountant, issued by the Council of such
Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued
by the Board of such Institute.
11. (1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of the boby corporate for each financial year and submit such
report together with the audited statement of accounts certified
by the Auditor-General or a qualified auditor referred to in
section 10 to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Social Services and to the Registrar
of Voluntary Social Services Organizations appointed under
the Voluntary Social Services Organization (Registration and
Supervision) Act,  No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six
months of the year succeeding the year to which such report
relates.
(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreign
and local funds received by the body corporate during the
financial year shall be attached to the report referred to in
subsection (1).
10
5
15
20
25
30
Annual
report

<!-- page 7 -->

Indira Cancer Trust (Incorporation)6
12. All debts and liabilities of the Trust existing on the
day immediately preceding the date of commencement of
this Act, shall be paid by the body corporate hereby
constituted and all debts due to and subscriptions and
contributions payable to the Trust  on that day shall be paid
to the body corporate for the purpose of this Act.
13. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the body corporate
shall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,
both movable and immovable, which may become vested in it
by virture of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary disposition
or otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the body
corporate for the purpose of this Act and subject to the rules
made under section 7, with power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
14. The moneys and property of the body corporate shall
be applied solely towards the promotion of the objects of the
body corporate and no portion thereof shall be paid or
transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend, bonus
or profit or otherwise to the members of the body corporate.
15. (1) The Seal of the body corporate shall be affixed
to any instrument except in the presence of the Chairperson
and the Secretary who shall sign their names to the instrument
in token of their presence and such signing shall be
independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody
of an officer bearer of the Board as may be decided by the
Board.
16. (1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporate
there remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and
liabilities any property whatsoever, such property shall not
be distributed among the members of the body corporate but
shall be given or transferred to any other institution having
10
5
15
20
25
30
Debts due by
and payable
to the Trust
Body
corporate
may hold
property
movable and
immovable
Property
remaining on
dissolution
Seal of the
body
corporate
Application
of moneys
and property

<!-- page 8 -->

7Indira Cancer Trust (Incorporation)
objects similar to those of the body corporate, and which is
by the rules thereof, prohibited from distributing any income
or property among their members.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the body
corporate immediately before the dissolution at a general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.
17. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or any body politic or
corporate.
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
10
5
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency

<!-- page 9 -->

Indira Cancer Trust (Incorporation)8
Department of Government Printing