

<!-- page 1 -->

YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Important  notIce  regardIng  acceptance  of  notIces 
for  publIcatIon  In  the  Weekly  “gazette”
Attention is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.   
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 31st March 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 17th  March ,  2023.
electronic transactions act, no. 19 of 2006 - section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the 
Gazette.”  
 GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2023.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
the gazette of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka
   
 
Land Settlement notices :- ... —
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... 80
Land Redemption Notices ... ––
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... —
(published by authority)
part III — lands
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
 wxl 2"323 - 2023 ud¾;= ui 10 jeks isl=rdod - 2023'03'10                            
 No. 2,323 - FRiDAy ,  MARCh  10, 2023
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                
79 -   B 082435 - 353 (03/2023)
N. B.–   Part iV(A) of the Gazette No. 2322 of 03.03.2023 was not published.
Page Page

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'10
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 10.03.2023
80
land development ordinance notices
PRiNTED  AT  ThE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRiNTiNG,  SRi  LANkA.
notIce  for  cancellatIon of the grants, Issued under   the   sub - sectIon (4)  
of  sectIon of the land development ordInance (sectIon 104)
PiyAL JAyASOORiyA, Divisional Secretary of the Divisional Secretariat of Dambulla in the District of Matale in Central 
Province, hereby inform that the actions are being taken to cancel the grant, given in terms of Section 19(4) of the Land 
Development Ordinance by the h/E president on 20.01.1998 bearing No. Madyama/Dambu/4944 to Seiyadu Lebbage 
Mohommadu Nadeema of kimbissa, Niakawatawana and registered on – under the No. At District Registrar Office, under 
the Section 104 of the same ordinance as it has been reported that there is no successor for the Land, mentioned in below 
schedule owing to the reason either non availability of a person who legally entitles for the succession or he/She dislikes for 
being a successor once such person is available. in case any objection, with this regard are available this should be informed 
me in written before 31.03.2023.
Schedule 
The portion of state land, containing in extent about – hectare, 01 Arcs, 00 Roods, 00 Perches, out of extent marked lot as 
Depicted in the field sheet bearing No. – made by Surveyor General's in the blocking out plan, which situated in the Village 
called Niakawatawana belongs to the Grama Niladhari Division of Niakawatawana in Wagapanaha Pallesiya Pattuwa 
coming within the area of authority of Dambulla Divisional Secretariat in the Administrative District of Matale as bounded 
by, Babaragalayaya.
On the North by  :  Land of Berty Sunil;
On the East by    :  Reservation of Babaragala Ela;
On the South by  :  Land of k. M. husen;
On the West by   :  Reservation of Babaragala Road.
 P
iyal Jayasuriya,
 Divisional Secretary,
 Dambulla.
28th November, 2022.
03-54