

<!-- page 1 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1061
1061
¡â¤ 1 ,463 _ 2006  ÌæÀà”æ´Ú 15 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2006.09.15
No. 1,463 – FRIDAY ,  SEPTEMBER 15,  2006
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... —
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1063
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 22nd September, 2006 should reach the Government
Press on or before 12 noon on 08th September, 2006.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2006.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
Note.- (i) Payment Divices Frauds Bill is published as a supplement to the part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of June 16, 2006
 (ii) Non-Performing Assets (Recovery)  Bill is published as a supplement to the part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of June 16, 2006
 (iii) National Insurance Trust Fund Bill is published as a supplement to the part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of June 16, 2006
N. B.– Part II & IV A of the Gazette No. 1,462 of 08.09.2006 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1062
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1063
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
RECRUITMENT  TO  THE  POST  OF  FOREMAN  IN
THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  HEALTH  SERVICES
APPLICATIONS are invited up to 09.10.2006 for recruitment to
the Post of Foreman Grade III in the Ministry of Healthcare and
Nutrition.
The eligible candidates will be selected following an interview on
merits of a competitive examination conducted by the Ministry of
Health.
The competitive examination will be held in Colombo / Selected
towns on 19.11.2006.
2. Educational Qualifications :
2.1 (a) Passed at least six subjects in the GCE (O/L)
Examination in not more than two sittings with Credit
passes for Sinhala / Tamil Language and Literature,
Mathematics, Science and one other subject ;
and
(b) Passed three subjects in the GCE (Adv.Lev.)
Examination including two subjects from pure
Mathematics, Applied Mathematics and Physics, in
one sitting ;
or
Passed in three subjects in the GCE (Adv.Lev)
Examination including Combined Mathematics and
Physics.
2.2 Only those candidates who have fulfilled the above
educational Qualifications will be admitted to training
Grade on the merits of the examination subject to the
inspection of Qualifications. The period of training is one
year. The trainees will be appointed to Grade III after
training period. The number of persons selected will be
50% of the total number of approved vacancies.
2.3 The candidates who have obtained one of the following
technical Qualifications along with the above educational
Qualifications will be appointed to a post in Grade III of
the Forman’s service after verification of Qualifications.
The number of persons appointed will be 50% of the total
number of vacancies.
(a) National Diploma in Technology (Electric /
Electronic) awarded by University of Moratuwa or
Hardy Technical Institute Ampara.
(b) National Engineering Diploma (Electric / Electronic)
awarded by National Apprenticeship and Technical
Training Authority.
(c) National Higher Engineering Diploma (Electric /
Electronic) awarded by the institute of Education
and Higher Education.
(d) Technical Diploma (Electric / Electronic) awarded
by the Open University of Sri Lanka.
Note.- The candidates Qualified in the relevant Foundation Course
of the  Open University or with other Technical qualifications
approved by technical Services Board will be exempted of the
requirement for GCE (O/L) certificate.
3. Scheme of Examinations :
(a) Question paper to assess the Technical knowledge (dura-
tion 1 1/2 hrs). Separate Question papers will be served to
applicant’s according to the Qualifications specified in 2.2
and 2.3 above.
(b) I.Q. and General knowledge (duration 2 hrs) Relevant to
the two categories of applicants in 2.2 and 2.3 above.
4. Salary Scale :
* Training Grade : - Rs. 12,920 monthly.
* Grade III :- Rs. 14,420 - 10 x 140 - 15,820 monthly.
5. Age Limit.-Applicants should be Sri Lankan citizen and should
not be below 18 years or over 40 years of age as at 09.10.2006
(Maximum age limit will not be applicable for those who are already
in the Public / Provincial Public Service)
6. Term of engagement and conditions of service.-The appointed
officers should be willing to serve in any part of the island. The
appointment is permanent and should contribute to the contributory
pensions Fund.
7. Those who engage in Government / Semi Government services
should forward their applications through the respective Heads of
Departments / Institutions.
8. The applications which do not conform to the conditions
contained herein will be rejected.
9. Applications will not be acknowledged and applications received
late will not be entertained.
10. Qualified applicants will be called for the examination and
they will be notified to such effect to the address given in the
application before two weeks. Information with regard to the
examination will be included in the website www.health.gov.lk within
the due time.
11. Mode of Application :-
(a) Applicants should prepare application as per the specimen
provided herewith and submit same to the following address
under registered cover No application should be sent to
the personal address of any officer.
(b) Closing date of applications is 09.10.2006.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1064
(c) Should indicate clearly the words “Recruitment to the
Post of Foreman under No. 2.2 / 2.3” (strike off whichever
is in applicable). on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
(d) Stamps to the value of Rs. 50- should be affixed in the cage
for ‘stamps’ and cancelled with the signature of the
applicant.
Address :-
Director (Admin) 02,
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition,
“Suwasiripaya”,
No. 385,
Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
12. Attestation.-Applicant should get his signature attested by an
officer in Sri Lanka Administrative Service / Sri Lanka Educational
Administrative Service / Government Accountants Service / Principal
of a Government school / Justice of the peace / Attorney at Law or
a public officer drawing a anual salary over Rs. 124,080.
R
ANJITH   MALIGASPE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition,
“Suvasiripaya”,
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimala Wansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
29th August, 2006.
Recruitment to the Post of Foreman in the Department of
Health Services Application Form
APPLICATION FORM
Medium of Examinatioin (Mark ü)
Sinhala Tamil English
District of Preference for the Eamination
01
02
03
01. Name with initials (in block capitals):———.
02. Name in Full (In block capitals) :———.
03. Permenant Address and the District :———.
04. Date of birth :
Year ——— Month ——— date ———
05. Age as at 09.10.2006 :
Years ——— Months ——— Days
06. National Identity Card No :-
07. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka ? :———.
08. Sex :———. 09. Civil Status :———.
10. Educational Qualifications :—
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination
First Sitting
Year :–––––––––.  Index No :–––––––––.
Subject Grading
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10
Second Sitting
Year :–––––––––.  Index No :–––––––––.
Subject Grading
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10
G. C. E. (Adv/Lev) Examination
Year :–––––––––.  Index No :–––––––––.
Subject Grading
01
02
03
04
11. Technical  Qualifications  (Attach a  copy of the certificate) :
———.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1065
12. Other Qualifications :———.
13. Have  you  ever  been  convicted  before my Court (If “Yes”
submit details) :———.
14. I hereby declare with due respect that the particulars furnished
by me in the application are true and correct and I admit that
I will be disqualified for the relevant post if any declaration is
proved to the false or incorrect.
Stamp
———,
Signature.
Date :———.
Attestation :
Mr. ……… who submits this application is personally known
to me and he placed his signature before me on this ………  day of
……… 2006.
———.
Signature of the Attestor and Official Frank.
09-561
SRI LANKA  INSTITUTE  OF  PRINTING
(Established by an Act of Parliament in 1984)
Ministry of Mass Media and Information
SLIOP STUDY PROGRAMME IN COSTING AND
ESTIMATING FOR PRINTERS
SRI LANKA Institute of Printing established by an act of Parliament
in 1984 will commence the study programme in Costing and
Estimating for Printers by October, 2006.
The course is specially designed for those who are involved in the
printing  and Graphic Industry such as Estimators. Accounting
personnel, Print Buyers Sales Personnel, Print Supervisors Managers,
Print Material Suppliers and advertising Personnel who wish to
learn the art of Costing and Estimating in the Print and Graphics
Industry.
The course is also useful for school leavers who wish to take up
printing as a career. the completion of this course provider necessary
qualifications to become eligible to follow the Advanced Diploma in
Printing Technology and Management  conducted by the Institute in
collaboration with the University of Colombo, Sri Lanka.
Course Contents :
Estimating Module
Definition of an Estimate
* Estimate as a sales tool
* Estimating as a production tool
Estimating Practices
* Standard Methods
Estimating of Material and Operation Times
Estimating Electronics and Conventional Pre Press
Estimating Press Operations
Estimating Digital Printing.
Estimating Post Press Operations
Estimating Paper, inks and other materials
Computerised Management Information System (MIS)
Application of estimating and costing software packages
Costing Module
Definition and Elements of Cost
Introduction to printing processors and applications
Costing methods and its relevance to the industry
Inventory and material control
Labour cost control
Absorption costing and marginal costing
Fixed costs. Variable costs and Depreciation
Budget Centres
Budgeting and Managing cost accounting information
Budgeted hourly rates
Developing BHRs for your company
The medium of Instructions will be in Sinhala with essential
terminology in English. The course will spread over 27 weeks with
classes being held on Tuesdays and Thurdays from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m.
Inquiries and Reservations :
Registrar,
Sri Lanka Institutes of Printing,
No.118, Dr. Danister De Silva Mawatha,
Colombo 08.
Telephone Nos.: 2686162, 2679791
Fax No.: 2686162.
E-mail -sliopreg@sri.lanka.net
09-578
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Common wealth Postgraduate Scholarships Tenable in the
United Kingdom – 2007
APPLICATIONS are entertained from eligible persons for the award
of Postgraduate Scholarships offered under the Commonwealth
Scholarships and Fellowships Plan. These awards are tenable at
Institutions of Higher Learning in the United Kingdom for the academic
year commencing from October, 2007.
02. Field of Study.– No restriction on the field of study. However,
fields that demonstrably link to the development priorities of the
country will be favoured.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1066
03. Tenure :
(a) For a doctoral Degree/or equivalent Degree.– 03 years.
However, awards are not made for the full period in the
first instance. Split-Site doctoral studies are also available
with 01 year research towards a PhD registered in a local
university.
(b) For a Masters Degree or equivalent Degree.– 01 year.
(c) Clinical Training in Medicine or Dentistry.– 06 months.
04. Termination.– Any scholarship may at the discretion of the
appropriate authority be terminated at any time owing to misconduct
irregularity of attendance, absence from class or hostel without prior
approval of the authority concerned, unsatisfactory progress in
studies ; or
Failure at examinations of the holder of such scholarship. Where
any scholarships has been terminated the scholar may be required to
return to Sri Lanka at his/her own expense.
05. Terms of Award.– Each Scholarship will carry the following
benefits :
(a) Students concessionary or other approved air fares to the
awarding country by the most direct and economical route
and back on completion of studies : the cost of journeys
made before receipt of award will not normally be
reimbursed nor can fares be paid for a scholar’s dependents :
(b) A personal maintenance.
(c) Approved tuition and examination fees.
(d) A grant for books and apparatus where applicable.
(e) A grant for expenses of approved study travel within the
country of award.
06. General Eligibility requirements.– each candidate :
(a) Should be citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) Should be less than 40 years of age on 01.10.2007.
(c) Should possess a First or a Second Class (Upper Division)
Honours Degree or a Degree of Second Class and a
Postgraduate degree in the relevant field of study from a
recognized University.
A Medical graduate should in addition have obtained a
distinction in the appropriate subject - Note (1).
(d) Should be employed in the Government Sector, University
or a Public Corporation. [Note (ii) and (iii)].
(e) Should possess high proficiency in English. To prove this
the candidate must have sat for IELTS or TOFEL
examination and obtained high marks. (IELTS - 6.5, TOFEL
- 550-600).
Notes :
(i) The requirements at 06(c) above should also have to be
completed by candidates possessing postgraduate
qualifications.
(ii) No application will be entertained from a person holding a
temporary or casual or contractual appointment or from a
person who is unemployed.
(iii) An employee or probation may apply provided however
that his/her confirmation is conditional upon acquiring a
specified postgraduate qualification in such a case a
statement to that effect should be included in cage 16 of
the application.
07. Special Eligibility Requirements.– Each Candidate,
1. For Business Administration and/or Management and
other related fields must take the graduate Management
Test (GMAT) ;
2. For Economics or related subject must take the Princeton
Graduate Record Examination (GRE) ;
3. For Medicine and Dentistry should possess qualification
registerable with the General Medical Council or the General
Dental Council.
4. Those who will be successful at interview will be further
required to pass IELTS examination conducted by the
British Council and should obtain an overall score of not
less than 6.5.
5. For Art and Music should submit appropriate specimen
work (slides, cassettes etc.) with their applications.
08. Applications :
(a) Every application should conform to the specimen form
given here.
(b) The word “Commonwealth Postgraduate Scholarships -
U. K. - 2007 should be clearly hand or type-written on the
top left corner of the envelope containing the application.
(c) Each applicant should submit only one application and
that too for a single course of study.
(d) A non refundable stamp of Rs. 10 is payable in respect of
each application. A stamp or stamps to this value should
be affixed in the cage provided for this purpose in the
application and cancelled by the applicant’s signature.
(e) No application from an employee of Government Service,
University or Public Corporation will be entertained unless
channeled through the Head of the Institution concerned.
He should in forwarding the application appropriately
complete the certificate in cage 16 of the application.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1067
(f) No application will be entertained from a person who has
entered into an agreement or bond to serve the Republic of
Sri Lanka, University or Public corporation for a specific
period unless he/she shall have completed by 01.10.2006,
the full period specified in such agreement or bond and
shall have discharged fully all the other obligations under
such agreement or bond.
(g) Any statement in the application, which is found to be
incorrect, will render the applicant liable to disqualification
if the inaccuracy is discovered before selection and to the
withdrawal of the award after selection.
(h) Closing date.– Applications will be accepted only up to
4.00 p. m. 16th October, 2006.
(i) Application should be sent to the following address
by Registered Post to reach before the closing
date :
Secretary,
Ministry of Education,
Higher Education Division,
No. 18, Ward Place,
Colombo 07.
(j) Every application which has not been sent through the
proper channel, which is incomplete in any respect and
which has been received late will be rejected.
(k) The conditions laid down in this gazette notification are
subject to variations in terms of criteria imposed by the
awarding country without prior notice.
09. Interview.– Every eligible candidate will be required to present
himself/herself at an interview to be held in Colombo at an
appointment time and place. He/She should produce at the interview
original certificates of qualifications, Certificate of Birth, National
Identity Card and any other documentary evidence in support of
his/her candidature as requested. Travelling or other expenses incurred
in connection with this interview will not be reimbursed.
10. Medical Examination.– Selected candidates may be required
to pass a Medical Examination, conducted by a Special Medical
Board.
11. Nomination for Scholarship.– No candidate should treat his/
her nomination for a scholarship by the authorities of the Government
of Sri Lanka as his/her acceptance for an award. Acceptance is a
matter entirely within the discretion of the respective awarding agency
to whom the nomination is made. Selected candidates who declined
to accept award after nomination will not be considered for any
other award in future.
12. Leave.– The grant of leave to public officers to accept awards
will be governed by the provisions of the Establishment Code and
Departmental Rules and Regulations in force at the time when
application for leave is made.
13. Agreement.– Every selected candidate should before his/her
departure on scholarship enter into an agreement with the Government
of Sri Lanka, undertaking among other things.
(a) to pursue faithfully and diligently and to successfully
complete the prescribed course of studies.
(b) to serve the Republic of Sri Lanka if so required, for a
specified period (to be determined by the Republic of Sri
Lanka) after completion of the course of study ; and
(c) to re-pay the Republic of Sri Lanka the full cost of
scholarship (i. e. all expenses incurred by the Republic of
Sri Lanka and the awarding agency in connection with the
entire scholarship, including in the case of a public officer
salary allowances, fees etc.) in the event of his/her failure
to comply with the terms and conditions of the agreement.
14. Any form of canvassing or attempt to influence the selection
of a candidate will disqualify such candidate.
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Higher Education Division,
No. 18, Ward Place,
Colombo - 07.
Cage for affixing No. :…………
Stamp for the value (for official use only)
MINISTRY OF EDUCA TION
(F
ORM  OF  APPLICA TION)
C OMMONWEALTH  POSTGRADUATE  SCHOLARSHIPS  TENABLE
 IN UNITED  KINGDOM  — 2007
01. (a) Name with the initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss.) :————.
(in block letters)
(a) Names denoted by initials :————.
02.  Address :————.
Telephone No. :————.
03.  Date of Birth :
Year :————, Month :————, Date :————.
04.  Exact age on 01.10.2007 :
Years :————, Months :————, Days :————.
05.  Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka ? :————.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1068
06.  Whether Married/Single/Widowed :————.
07.  Academic / Professional / Technical Qualifications :
Name of Year and Institution Subjects Grade
Examination/ Month of Pass
Certificate
08. Present Employment :
Name of the Department Designation 01st Date of
Institution Appointment
09. If you are in Government / University / Corporation Service :
(a) Is your appointment permanent or temporary ? :————.
(b) If permanent have you been confirmed in the
appointment ? :————.
(c) No. and date of letter of confirmation and the authority
who is issued it :————.
10. (a) Desired Course or Field of Study ? :————.
(b) Whether Master Degree or Ph.D. :————.
11. Particulars of any bonds and/or agreements entered into with
the Republic of Sri Lanka or with any Government aided or
sponsored institution, with date of discharge of obligations
under them :————.
12. If you have been abroad earlier on a scholarship, study tour,
training etc. state full particulars :————.
13. Highest Examination passed in English - whether IELTS or
TOFEL :–––––––––.
Score :————. Year :––––––––.
14. Evidence of research and publications if any :————.
15. Any other particulars :————.
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate and that I have not suppressed any
essential information. I am also aware that if any particulars contained
herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification
if the inaccuracy is discovered before selection and withdrawal of the
award is discovered after selection.
————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :————.
16. (When the applicant is an employee of State Institution
aided by the Government Funds).
Certificate of the Head of the Institution
(i) I certify that the :
(a) training provided under this scholarship is essential/not
essential for this institution,
(b) Details declared by the applicant in cages 8, 9 and 11 of
the application were verified by me with the personal
record of the officer and are correct*/should be corrected.
(c) The applicant is confirmed in the appointment/* will be
confirmed in the appointment on ………
(d) The applicant will*/will not be released to take up this
scholarship if selected.
(e) The applicant will*/will not be granted leave on full
pay/* no pay.
(ii)Full name of the applicant :————.
(iii)Any other special reasons :————.
Name of the Institution :————.
————,
Signature of Head of the Institution
with the Official Frank.
(This certificate should be signed by the Head of the Institution)
* Delete words inapplicable.
09-651

<!-- page 9 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1069
EFFICIENCY   BAR   EXAMINATION  AND  SECOND  LANGUAGE  TEST  FOR  THE  OFFICERS  IN   SRI LANKA
ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE,  SRI LANKA  ACCOUNTANTS’  SERVICE,  SRI  LANKA  SCIENTIFIC  SERVICE, SRI
LANKA  ENGINEERING  SERVICE,  SRI LANKA  POLICE   SERVICE  AND   SRI LANKA   ARCHITECTURES’
SERVICE- 2006
EFFICIENCY Bar Examination and the Second Language Test for officers in the above mentioned Services will be held in Colombo in
December, 2006.
02. Time Tables will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for the both Efficiency Bar Examinations at the same time.
03. Syllabus :
Service Efficiency Bar Examinations Date and Appendix
number of the relevant to the
Gazette Syllabus
notification
Sri Lanka Administrative First Efficiency Bar 07.06.1988 ‘C’
Service Examination 509/07
Second Efficiency Bar do. ‘D’
Examination
Second Language Test ‘E’
Sri Lanka Accountants First Efficiency Bar 27.07.2001 ‘B’
Service Examination 1194/26
Second Efficiency Bar do. ‘D’
Examination
Officers are allowed to sit for the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examinations at one sitting or different occasions, if they wish so.
However officers are required to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination within the prescribed period. Action will be taken to
conduct Oral Tests for the officers who sit for the Second Language Test at one center.
04. (a) Subjects prescribed for the Efficiency Bar in  each Service are as follows :
Sri Lanka Administrative Service
First Efficiency Bar Examination Second Efficiency Bar Examination
Subject Subject Duration Subject Subject Duration
No. Hours No. Hours
01 Penal Code and 3 20 Economics and Social 3
Evidence ordinance Politics (with Special
reference to Sri Lanka)
02 Legal Systems and 3 21 Systems relating to
Court Organisation in Development 3
Sri Lanka Administration (with
special reference to
Sri Lanka)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1070
03 Constitution of Sri Lanka 3 22 Management and Organization 3
04 Financial Systems 3
05 Administration 3
06 Economics 3
07 Social Science 3
08 English 3
Second Language Test Officer in other services
mentioned in this
notification can also
apply for the 2nd
Language Test, if they
wish so
09 Sinhala (Written) 2
10 Tamil (Written) 2
11 English (Written) 2
12 Sinhala (Oral)
13 Tamil (Oral)
14 English (Oral)
Sri Lanka Accountant Service
First Efficiency Bar Examination Second Efficiency Bar Examination
Subject Subject Duration Subject Subject Duration
No. Hours No. Hours
30 Government Financial 3 36 Management Accountancy 3
Procedures
31 Law and Management 3 37 Public Financial 3
Management
32 Administration 3 38 Management and 3
Organisation
33 Reports writing and 3 Second Language Test
presenting information to Officers who apply for
management this test, please see under
Sri Lanka Administrative
Service for subjects
and subject numbers.
First Efficiency Bar Examination Second Efficiency Bar Examination
Subject Subject Duration Subject Subject Duration
No. Hours No. Hours

<!-- page 11 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1071
Sri Lanka Police Service
Subject Subject Duration
No. Hours
80 Administration of Justice Law and Evidence Ordinance 3
81 Penal Code and Police Ordinance 3
Officer who apply for the Second Language – please see under Sri Lanka
Administrative Service for subjects and subjects numbers.
Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Architecture’s Service and Sri Lanka Scientific Service
Subject Subject Duration
No. Hours
04 Financial Systems 3
05 Administration 3
04.(b) Names of Examinations :
Sri Lanka Administrative Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01
Sri Lanka Administrative Service Second Efficiency Bar Examination 02
Second Language Test 03
Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01
Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service Second Efficiency Bar Examination 02
Sri Lanka Scientific Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01
Sri Lanka Architectures’ Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01
Sri Lanka Police Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01
Sri Lanka Engineering Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01
05. Exemption from the requirement of passing Effciency Bar Examination :
Sri Lanka Administrative Subject Qualifications to be exempted
Service
First Efficiency Bar Law Being a Barrister of Law, an Advocate or
Examination Attorney-at-law in the Supreme Court of
Sri Lanka, a  Graduate in law from a University
Economic/Social Science Being a graduate in Economics or Social Science
(Special)
English Passing the English subject in  the Training
Programme for Cadets conducted by the Sri
Lanka Institute of Development Administration
Second Efficiency Bar Management and Certificate for Public Administration
Examination Organisation awarded by Sri Lanka Institute of Development
Administration
Second Language Test Sinhala / Tamil / English Passing a Test in a sufficient standard
B4 – B 079366

<!-- page 12 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1072
Sri Lanka Accountant Subject Qualification to be exempted
Service
Second Efficiency Bar 36 Management Accountancy Diploma in Public Finance Management
Examination 37 Public Finance Management conducted by Sri Lanka Institute of Development
38 Management and Organisation Administration
; or
Higher Diploma in Computer Programming conducted
by  Business Management Institution
; or
Post-Graduate Diploma in Accountancy,  Commerce,
Management Public Administration, Business
Administration Computer Science/ Master of
Arts/PH.D
; or
Passing  the final examination in one of the following:
Institute of Chartered Accountants, Institute of
Chartered Management Accountants, Chartered
Association of Certified Accountant, British Computer
Association Australian Computer Association
; or
Any other similar qualification recognized by the
Board
6. Arrangements will be made by the Commissioner General of Examination to enable the candidates to answer all the subjects in
Sinhala, Tamil or English other than the question papers relating to languages.
7. If any candidate is later found to have sat in a medium in which he is not entitled to sit, his candidature will be cancelled.
8. Application should be prepared according to the annexed form on a paper of A4 size. From number 01 to 06 should be included
into the front page. Candidates appearing for both examination Should submit separate applications in respect of each examination.
9. Application should be sent through the respective Head of Department by registered post to reach the following address on or
before 16th October, 2006. Application received after the prescribed date will  be rejected.
Commissioner General,
Department of Examinations  Sri Lanka,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch, Pelawatta-Battaramulla.
10. If a candidate does not receive his admission card, he should communicate without delay with the commissioner General of
Examinations, (Telegraphic Address “Exams” Battaramulla) informing him that he has not received the admission form and giving following
information :
(1) Name of Examinations :————.
(2) Full Name of the candidate :————.
(3) Postal Address :————.
(4) Post Office, Registration Number and Date of Dispatch :————.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1073
11. Subsequent correspondence by candidates who fail to comply with the requirements as laid down in paragraph 10 above will
not be entertained.
12. The attention of all candidates is invited to Circular No. SE  274 of 29.06.1971 issued by the Commissioner General of
Examinations regarding the use of identity cards. It is the responsibility of candidates to prove their identity through any of the following
identity card at the Examination Hall :
(i) National Identity card,
(ii) Valid Passport,
13. Examination fee will be as follows :
        (a) First sitting (whole examination or part there of) free of charge ;
        (b) Each subsequent sitting –
Rs. Cents.
Complete examination 115.0
One Subject 75. 0
Oral Test 75.0
The fees should be paid in revenue stamps duly cancelled by the candidate with his signature thereon.
D. D
ISSANAYAKE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration,
and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration
  and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
24th August, 2006.
Sri Lanka Administrative Service
Appendix “C”
(a) The 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers of the Sri Lanka Administrative service will comprise the following subjects:-
(1) Law ;
(2) Financial System;
(3) Administration ;
(4) (a) Economics ; or
(b) Sociology ;
(5) English.
SCHEME OF EXAMINATIONS
L
AW
Syllabus ;
Subject No. 01
The Penal Code and the Evidence Ordinance (Chapters 19 and 14).
Subject No. 02
The Legal Systems of Sri Lanka and the Organisation of the courts. Candidates will be expected to be familiar with the Court
Ordinance (Chapter 6) and the Court of Appeal Act, No. 44 of 1971.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1074
Subject No. 03
The constitutions of Sri Lanka Candidates will be expected to be familiar with the following in Acts and Orders in Council
(including Amendments) :
The Ceylon (Constitution and Independence) Orders in Council 1946 and 1947 (Chapter 379) ;
The Citizenship Act, No. 18 of 1948 (Chapter 349) ;
The Ceylon (Parliamentary Elections) Orders in Council 1846 (381) ;
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Note.— Candidates will be required to obtain a minimum of 33,1/3 percent of the marks in each subject in law and an  average of
40 percent for a  pass.
Subject No. 04  Financial Systems
Syllabus :-
(a) The Financial Regulations of the Government of Sri Lanka Part 1 (Except Chapter X) ;
(b) The Estimates of the Current Year. e.g.-Their Arrangement the Heads of Revenue ; The Finance and Appropriation Acts.
Note.— A Candidate will be required to obtain 40 percent of the total marks for a pass.
Subject No. 05 Administration
Syllabus :-
(a) Office and Field Organization and Methods ;
(b) The Establishment Code (Chapters I, II, III, V , VI, VII, IX, XI, XXIII, XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI,
XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII and XLVIII).
Note.—A candidate will be required to obtain 40 percent of the total marks for a pass.
Subject No. 06 Economics
Syllabus :-
(a) Principles of Economics with special reference to the theories of Value, Production and Distribution;
(b) Money, Banking and  Finance of International Trade;
(c)  The Economic Structure of Sri Lanka.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain 40 percent of the  total marks for  a pass.
Subject No. 07 Sociology
Syllabus :-
(a) Social Structure, Organisation and Operation ;
(b) Human Relationship and Groupings ;
(c) Kinship, Marriage and the Family ;
(d) Rural and Urban Society ;
(e) Social Structure and Differentiations ;
(f) Social Control ;
(g) Conceptions of Culture, Religion, Morals and Values.
Note.— Candidates will be required to obtain 40 percent of the total marks for a pass.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1075
Subject No. 08 English
Syllabus :-
Contents –
(a) Grammer.–  The following areas will be tested :
(1) The V erb Forms, all the principal tenses of English e.g.– the Present Simple Tense, the Simple Past, the Future, the Present
Perfect, etc. ;
(2) Nouns, Countable, Uncountable ;
(3) Pronouns ;
(4) Adjective Degrees of Comparison ;
(5) Adverbs of Frequency, Work order phrases and sentences ;
(6) Prepositions ;
(7) Determiners ;
(8) Question Words ;
(9) Model Auxiliaries, Can, Could, May, Might, Should, Must, Ought to ;
(10) The Definite Article ;
(11) Cardinals/Ordinals;
(12) The Passive Construction;
(13) Relative Clauses;
(14) If Clauses;
(15) Reported Speech;
(16) There is/There are;
(17) Have/Has.
(b) Vocabulary.– The vocabulary tested will be that of general modern English with special emphasis on the following fields :
Management, Administration and Social and Economic Development.
(c) Reading.– Ability to (i) Understand the sense of a passage and the writer’s attitude to the subject (ii) Grasp the draft of an
argument (iii) Draw Implications from what is written.
(d) Writting.– Ability to write Essays, Departmental Reports, Official Letters, Circulars, Minutes, Memos, fill in forms.
(e) Speech.– Ability to speak fluently in the following situations :-
(i) Social English, e.g.- Greeting, Introductions, Farewells, Requests, Conveying Information.
(ii)Speaking over the telephone.
(iii)Interview skills, Questioning and Answering Orally.
(iv) Meetings, makings speeches, proposing a V ote of Thanks.
(f) Listening.– Listening to speeches, lectures, dialogues and conversations and the ability to understand and respond to what is
said.
SCHEME OF EXAMINATION
1. Written Examination.  There will be one paper of 3 hours duration.
2. Oral Examination. The Oral Examination will consist of 2 parts.
The candidate will be expected to perform these tasks :
(a) Carry on a conversation ;
(b) Describe a picture ;
(c) Read aloud from a passage ;
(e) Listen to and write down a passage of dictation of about 80 words.
Note.— A candidate will be required to obtain minimum 40 percent of the total marks for a pass.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1076
Appendix “D”
Sri Lanka Administrative Service
(a) The Second Efficiency Bar Examination for officers of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service will comprise the following subjects:
(1) Economics and Social Policy (with special reference to Sri Lanka);
(2) The Process for Development Administration (with special reference to Sri Lanka) ;
(3) Management and Organisation.
Syllabus
Subject No. 20
Economics and Social Policy (with special reference to Sri Lanka) :
The questions in this subject will be designed to test candidates knowledge of the factors that affect and influence the process of
formulation of economic and social policy  in Sri Lanka. Candidates are expected to be aware of the principles of Applied Economics and
Applied Sociology as well as of the recent, Economic, Social and Political History of Sri Lanka.
Note.— A candidate will be required to obtain minimum 40 percent of the total marks for a pass.
Subject No. 21
The Process of Development Administration (with special reference to Sri Lanka) :
Candidates will be expected to have a wide grasp of the Institutions of Development Administration their working and the
interrelationship which exist amongst them with special reference to :
(a) The Machinery of Government in Sri Lanka;
(b) The constitutional background of the machinery of Government of Sri Lanka ;
(c) Local Government ;
(d) People’s Organisations ;
(e) Organisation of Public Enterprises.
Note.—A candidate will be required to obtain minimum 40 percent of the total marks for a pass.
Subject No. 22 Management and Organisation
The question in this subject will be designed to :
(a) Assess the candidates grasp of the principles of management and organization;
(b) The application of these principles to problems and issues in the Public Sector;
(c) His familiarity with the modern tools and techniques of management.
Note.— A candidate will be required to obtain minimum 40 percent of the total marks for a pass.
Appendix “B”
Sri Lanka Accountant’s Service
First Efficiency Bar Examination :
(a) The First Efficiency Bar Examination will comprise of 4 papers of 3 hours each in the following subjects :
(1) Government Financial Procedure ;
(2) Law and Management ;
(3) Administration :
(4) Report Writing and Presenting Information to Management.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1077
(b) Officers may take up the subject of the First Efficiency Bar Examination on one and the same occasion or on separate occasions
if they so desire.
(c) Candidates will be required to obtain 40 percent in each paper for a pass.
Syllabus :-
Subject No. 30
(1) Government Financial Procedures.– Candidates will be tested on the application of the Government Financial Regulations
and Treasury Circulars in respect to government transaction, financial regulations/procedures as they relate to revenue, expenditure, foreign
aid, annual and supplementary estimate, public debt, procurements, tenders imprests and advances, financial sanctions, the accounts of the
island, functional and economic classification, programme and performance budget, functions of the Minister of Finance the General
Treasury the Planning Ministry, the Secretaries, the Auditor-General and the Public Accounts Committee.
Subject No. 31 Law and Management
      Law :
Definition of Law,
Legal systems in Sri Lanka,
Court system in Sri Lanka,
Law of Contracts,
Law of Agency,
Sale of Goods,
Hire purchase,
Negotiable instruments,
Guarantee,
Insurance,
      Management :
Introduction to management,
Functions and skills of managers,
Planning process and setting organizational levels,
Organizations structure,
Management of human resources,
Performance evaluation,
Promotion,
Motivation,
Leadership,
Communication,
Decision making,
Problem solving,
Management of change,
Managing conflicts,
Managing time,
Quality circles and productivity,
Management ethics and responsibility,
Subject No. 32
 Administration.- Candidates will be tested on provisions in the Establishments Code Part 1 and part II.
Report Writing and Presenting Information to Management :
Importance of timeliness, accuracy, completeness and relevance in relation to management information,
Dealing with reference materials,
Periodic and ad-hoc reports,

<!-- page 18 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1078
Writing minutes and reports of meetings,
Structure of Management reports,
Significant results to be highlighted,
Interpretation of results,
Suggestions to variations,
Use of statistical methods in analyzing data,
Performance comparison,
Use of ratios, percentages in management reports,
Diagrammatic representations,
Listening to professional talks and lectures,
Reporting lectures in speech,
Panel discussions,
Seminar skills,
Delivering a speech.
Appendix “D”
(b) The 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for officers of the Sri Lanka Accountant’s Service will comprise the following subjects :-
(1) Management Accounting
(2) Public Finance Management
(3) Management and Organization
Officers may take up the subjects of the 2nd Efficiency Bar examination on one and the same occasion or on separate occasions
as they so desire. A candidate will be required to obtain minimum of 40 percent of the marks for a pass.
SCHEME OF EXAMINATION
(1) Management Accounting - A paper of 3 hours duration.
Syllabus :-Control theory in accounting feed back, open and closed loop systems. Types of standard costs ideal basic and correct.
Principles and practice of setting performance standards and value standards revision of standard, consideration of the learning
curve and motivation. The analysis significance presentation and investigation of variances and sub-variances, behavioral aspects of control
accounting. The budgeting concept, the administration of budgetary control, the budget manual, fixed and flexible budgets, master and
subsidiary budgets, budget centers, management participation in budget preparation, involvement and motivation, The Budget period and
identification of the principal budget factor.
(2) Public Financial Management :- A paper of 3 hours duration. Selection of question will  not be allowed.
Role of Government Accountant.— Constitutional and legal framework of public finance, Institutional framework, Central
Government, Government Corporation, Local Authorities, Co-operative Movement etc.
Parliamentary Control Functions of Treasury, Planning Ministry, Estimates Committee, Auditor-General, Public Account
Committee, Consolidated Fund, Problems of Parliamentary Control.
The Financial Cycle, Planning, Programming Budgeting, Funding Authorization, Accounting, Reporting, Evaluation and Audit.
Project appraisal, application of shadow prices and statistical data, determination of pay off metric and expected value, cost
benefit analysis, discounted cash flow, internal rate of return, ranking of project, economic financial and managerial aspects of projects
formulation and appraisal, effective project presentation.
Programming Techniques, applications of network - analysis assignment of resources, transportation, problem, replacement of
assets that degenerate with use or passage of time and those which do not but which fall after certain amount of use of time.
Performance budget installation of basic methods, measurement of performance, kind of measure, selecting unit and rooms,
systems of measurement and performance analysis.
Performance budget, programme structure, Classification by functions, programmes activities projects and objects of expenditure.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1079
Financial controls Accountability, Internal control and Financial Regulation, Internal Audit, Efficiency Audit, Management Audit.
Pricing in Public Enterprises.
Financial control of Government, Commercial Enterprises, budgeting management, reporting interpretation of account, the use of
financial ratios.
Design and content of accounts and reports of Government and Public undertakings.
Note.—A Candidate will be required to obtain minimum of 40 percent of the total marks for a pass.
(3) Management and Organization :- A paper of 3 hours duration.
The questions in this subject will be designed to assess the candidate’s grasp of the principles of management and organization.
Appendix “E”
Sinhala
The Test in Sinhala will consist of a Written and on oral part.
The written paper will be of two hours duration and will contain questions on :
(i) Grammer,
(ii)Translation into English of petitions or reports from Headmen or Grama Seva Niladharis written in different running hands.
(iii)Translation into Sinhala from an Official paper of document in English.
The Oral Test will consist of the following :
(i) Dictation of Official material from English into Sinhala so that the passage can be understood and taken down or written by
a Sinhalese,
(ii)Reading of  a petition in Sinhala,
(iii)Conversation and Interpretation :- The purpose of the test will be assess the candidates’ power of understanding Sinhala of
different classes and of making himself  understood both in common converstation and in the usual course of official business.
A candidate is required to obtain 40% marks for each section of the written and oral subject for a pass.
Tamil
The Test in Tamil will consist of a Written and an Oral part.
The Written  paper which will be of two hours duration and will contain questions on :
(i) Grammer
(ii)Translation into English of petitions or reports from Headmen or Grama Seva Niladharis written in different running hands.
(iii) Translation into Tamil from an Official paper or document in English.
The Oral Test will consist of the following :
(i) Dictation of Official material from English into Tamil so that the passage can be understood and taken down or written by a
Tamil.
(ii)Reading of a Tamil petition.
(iii)Conversation and Interpretation :- The purpose of the test will be to assess the candidates’ power of understanding Tamil of
different classes and of making himself understood both in common conversation and in the usual course of official business.
Note.—A Candidate is required to obtain   40% marks for each section  of written  and oral subject  for a pass.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1080
English
A prototype of the question paper is furnished below for the information of candidates :-
Part A
(a) Fill in the blanks with the correct form of the verb given within brackets :-
During the last war our country .......... 1 (be) a British Colony..............2 (take) a full part in the war effort. Consequently our tea,
rubber and coconut .................. 3 (ship) to Britain at very favourable prices and the foreign exchange we ............. 4 (earn) ................
5 (accumulate) as assets. Again during the Korean war in the early fifties our products .................. 6 (fetch) good prices and we ................
7 (not have) any exchange problem. However, political independence .................. 8 (not given rise) to any effort to .................... 9 (build up)
our economy we ................ 10 (be) a nation of consumers goods which .................... 11 (squander) our foreign exchange on consumer goods
which ................... 12 (can produce) locally and incidentally diversified our economy. Over the last decade we ................... 13 (begin) to feel
the pinch when our primary products .................. 14 (fail) to command good prices in the world market while our requirements of food both
rice and subsidiary food stuffs ........................ 15 (rise) in price.
(b) Fill in the blanks with the correct preposition (where necessary)
As Assistant Secretary ............... 16 charge ............. 17 subjects, it was my duty to convene groups of officers dealing .................. 18
different aspects of development work in the Ministry ................... 19 time to time. They discussed ........................ 20 various problems
that they confronted and which they could not cope ....................... 21 on their own. We were thus able to share our experience ..................... 22
each other and make concrete proposals ...................... 23 the Secretary every month. He in turn put ...................... 24 his own plans for
discussion .................... 25 these meetings.
(c) Underline the correct letters given within brackets that would complete the spelling of the following words :-
26. har ……… ment (rass/as/ass)
27. ember ……… (rass/as/ass)
28. tol ……… (arreance/ erance/erence)
29. Par ……… arian (liament/ limen/liment)
30. bal ……… ing (let/ lat/ lot)
31. itin ……… (erary/arary/erarie)
32. Pers ……… (everance/everence/ewerence)
33. bour ……… (geoise/joursie/juwarsy)
34. prolet ……… (ariet/ariat/eriyat)
35. com ……… ate (memorr/ emor/memor).
(d) In each of the following statements underline the correct word within brackets :-
36. The inventory was checked by the Board of (Surveillance/Survey/Surveyors)
37. At the enquiry I had to be satisfied that the accused officer has (contradicted/contravened/contaminated) the regulations.
38. Every receipt should have a (counterfoil/counterfeit/counterpane) for the purpose of audit.
39. There was a possibility that the prosecution had (fabricated/fumigated/promulgate) the evidence.
40. (Discrete/Discretionary/Discriminatory) power was given to the Head of the Department under the relevant Act.
41. The Police Party had (laid/lied/lain) in ambush until the bribe taker arrived.
42. The entire staff turned upon (facilitate/infiltrate/felicitate) the watcher on his retirement.
43. In times of national crisis we must avoid (luxuriant/luxurious) habits.
44. Martial music was played over the radio during height of the battle to keep up the (moral/morale/morals) of the people.
45. Candidates are advised to use (Stationary/Stationery) sparingly owing to the acute paper shortage.
(e) Underline the correct phrase in the brackets that means the same as the word or phrase underlined in each sentence.
46. In good Management the boss should, support his staff in their work (back out/back up/back away).
47. The sales and replacement of stock amounted to over Rs. 5,000 (turn out/turn up/turn away).
48. We were warned at the start not to let out work get into arrears (set out/out set).
49. The younger son wasted his father’s wealth in a few years (ran over/ran through)’
50. I wanted to see the film, but the queue deterred me from going (put away/put off).

<!-- page 21 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1081
Part B
Read the following passage carefully and then answer the questions set out below :-
Most modern political ideals such, for example, as justice, liberty, constitutional government, and respect for the law or at least
the definitions of them, began with the reflection of Greek thinkers upon the institutions of City State. But in the long history of political
thought the meaning of such terms has been variously modified and always that meaning has to be understood in the light of the institutions
by which the indicates were to be realized and of the society in which those institutions did their work. The Greek City States was so
different from the political communities in which modern men live,  that it requires no small effort of the imagination to picture its social and
political life. The Greek Philosophers were thinking of political practices far different from any that have prevailed commonly in modern
word, and the whole climate of opinion in which the work was done was different. Their problems though not without their analogies in the
preset, were never identical with modern problems and the ethical apparatus by which political life was evaluated and criticized varied
widely from any that now prevails. In order to understand at all accurately what their theories meant it necessary first to realize at least
roughly what kind of institutions they had in view and what citizenship connected as an effect and as an ideal, to the public for whom they
wrote. For this purpose, the Government of Athens is especially important, partly because it is the best known, but chiefly because it was
an object of special concern to the greatest of Greek Philosophers.
As compared with modern states the ancient City-State was exceedingly small both in area and in population. The numbers were
exceedingly uncertain but, a  figure somewhat in excess of three hundred thousand would be approximately correct. Such an arrangement of
a small territory denominated by a single City was typical off the City State.
In each of the following cases, choose the alternative which in your opinion supports the views expressed in the above passage.
Place a tick (right mark) against the correct answer.-
51. Athens is significant for the students of Greek political thought mainly because :-
(a) it was the most powerful of the Greek City-States ;
(b) its ideals had been carefully studied by the Greeks themselves ;
(c) it had the most ideal form of Government ;
(d) it is the best known of the Greek City-States.
52. Greek political thought was concerned with problems :-
(a) entirely unrelated to.
(b) identical with
(c) different from analogous but to
53. The moral and religious basis of Greek political idea is :-
(a) very similar to modern moral and religious ideas ;
(b) unknown ;
(c) very different from modern moral and religious ideas.
54. It is :-
(a) easy,
(b) not at all easy,
(c) impossible,
for a modern man to imagine what life was like in a Greek City-States.
55. In comparison with the ancient Greek City States are :-
(a) very large,
(b) very small,
(c) about the same size.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1082
56. The population of an ancient Greek City States was :-
(a) much less than 300,000,
(b) over 3 million,
(c) Just over 300,000.
57. The City-State of Athens comprises  :-
(a) a small territory governed by a single city,
(b) a large territory governed by a number of cities,
(c) a small territory with village councils,
(d) a large territory with a decentralised administration.
58. At different times in the history of the world people :-
(a) have thought in basicially the same way,
(b) have thought in different ways,
(c) have contradicted the views of people of the previous generation.
59. Details of political theory are derived from Greek Political thought :-
(a) because the Greek City States was very similar to modern states,
(b) in spite of Greek City States being very different from modern States,
(c) because modern political theorists are students of Greek Philosophy.
60. The meaning of political ideal at a particular moment in European History since the time of the Greeks can be defined only be :-
(a) relating it to its context,
(b) tracing it back to its original meaning among the Greeks,
(c) investigating the meaning of the Greek word for it,
(d) taking into account only those features in it which have persisted throughout its history.
61. Write sentences using each of the following words so as to bring out its meaning clearly :-
Arbitration, emoluments, etiquette, consolidate, hypothetical, retrospective, exigencies, evaluate, review, empower.
Either
62. Write a letter to the Head of an Educational Institute in an English speaking country, setting out the following information in an
orderly manner :-
(i) The equivalence of our examination certificate to the   certificate specified in this letter cannot be determined as the examining
authorities in Sri Lanka have not been consulted by the institution concerned in that country.
(ii)The G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Credit Pass has been officially equated with an Ordinary Pass in London G. C. E. (Ordinary
Level),
(iii)The receipt of the letter sent to the Commissioner of Examinations is acknowledged.
(iv) Any further information in this matter may be obtained from the Embassy of the Republic of Sri Lanka in that country.
63. Write a memorandum to the Secretary, Bureau of Standards marking out a case for the adoption of the 24 hour clock in this
country stating  the advantages of such a measure.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1083
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
Official Use Only
DEPARTMENT OF EXAMINA TIONS – SRI LANKA
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  AND  SECOND  LANGUAGE  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS  OF  THE  SRI LANKA  ADMINISTRA TIVE  SERVICE , SRI
LANKA  ACCOUNTANTS ’ SERVICE , SRI LANKA  SCIENTIFIC  SERVICE , SRI LANKA  ENGINEERING  SERVICE , SRI LANKA  POLICE  SERVICE  AND
SRI LANKA  ARCHITECTURE ’S SERVICE –2006
(To be forwarded through the Head of the Department to the Commissioner General of Examinations, by registered Post)
(The envelope should bear the name of the examination on the top left-hand corner.)
01. (a) Last name with Initials :————.
(in block letters)
(b) Names denoted by Initials :————.
          (in block letters)
02. Postal Address (for dispatch of Admission Card) :————.
(in block letters)
03. Name of the Examination :————.
Note .- vide 4B before completing this.
04. The Language Medium in which Officer will sit the Examination :
Sinhala – 2, Tamil – 3, English – 4
(Mention the relevant number in cage)
05. (i) The Service to which the Officer belongs :————.
(ii)Date of appointment to that service :————.
Date Month Year
06. Subject offer (to be clearly stated) with the subject number as indicated in the first paragraph of the notification.
06-1
(Candidates are not allowed to sit for the subjects other than the subjects mentioned in their applications.)
(i) .........................Subject No.
(ii).........................Subject No.
(iii).........................Subject No.
(iv) .........................Subject No.
(v) .........................Subject No.
(vi) .........................Subject No.
(vii).........................Subject No.
06-2
Second Language Test :
(i) Written – Subject No.
(ii)Oral – Subject No.
07. Date of Birth :
Date :————.  Month :————. Y ear :————.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2006
1084
08. Designation :————.
Name of Department :————.
09. If the Officer is in the Administrative Service, the date on which he was appointed to such service :————.
10. If the Officer is not in the Administrative Service to which service he belongs :————.
11. If the Officer is in the Administrative Service the examination for which he is applying :—
(Delete whichever is inapplicable)
(a) First Efficiency Bar Examination (A)
(b) Second Efficiency Bar Examination (B)
(c) Second Language Examination (C)
12. If the Officer is not  in the Administrative Service the examination for which he is applying :————.
(Delete whichever is inapplicable)
13. State whether you have sat this examination previously in whole or in part :————.
If so state subject and give year and month :————.
Examination Subject Year Month
I, declare that the above particulars are correct and that I am entitled to sit this examination in the language medium indicated at
Para. 04 above.
I, also declare that the stamps affixed to this application are valid and unused before cancellation by me.
14. Fees paid Rs. :
Cage of Stamps
Date :————. ————.
Signature of Candidate.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Forwarded –
I certify that the above mentioned candidate Mr/Mrs./Miss........................................who is eligible to sit for the examination in
the requested medium as indicated in the Para. 04.
I attest the candidate’s signature.
————.
Signature of Head of the Department and
Designation.
Date :————.
09-555
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.