

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Page 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... —
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province   ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province   ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province  ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 136
(Published by Authority)
PA RT  III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 2"187- 2020 cQ,s ui 31 jeks isl=rdod - 2020'07'31         
No. 2,187 - FRidAy,  JULy 31,  2020
                                
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtiON is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  No-
tices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  21st August,  2020 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 7th   August , 2020.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
Government Printer 
department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2020.
This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
135 - B 82044-353 (07/2020) 135
N. B.-   Part    IV (A)  of the  Gazette No. 2186  of  24.07.2020 was not  Published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 31.07.2020
136
Ref. No. of Land Commissioner General's No. 4/10/56733.
Ref. No. of Provincial Land Commissioner's No.: 
m<d;a$bfld$b9$l,a$§' n' 25'
noTIfIcATIon mADe unDeR STATe LAnD 
ReGuLATIon no. 21(2)
it is hereby notified that  Ark Lanka Holding (private) Ltd.  
has  requested on lease a state land allotment in extent  of 43  
acres depicted as  Lot   No. "A" and "B"  in the  plan  No.  
Pu/Kal/2015/43 surveyed  and prepared by the  Government 
Surveyor  and situated in the  village of Nachchikalliya of 
628  Musalpitiya Grama  Niladhari division  which belongs  
to  Kalpitiya divisional Secretary's  division  in the  district 
of Puttalam on lease for   a prawn farming project. 
02. the  boundaries  of the  land  requested  are given below.
Lot "A" 
On the North by  :  Road (RdA) road and Puttalam lagoon;  
On the East by  : Puttalam lagoon  ;
On the South by  :  Canal ;
On the West by :  Roal (RdA). 
Lot "B" 
On the North by  :  Road (RdA) canal and Puttalam lagoon;  
On the East by  : Canal and  Puttalam lagoon  ;
On the South by  :  Canal ;
On the West by :  Roal (RdA). 
the requested  land can be granted lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the government has intended to lease out 
the land subject to other government approved conditions and 
the  following  conditions : 
 (a)  Terms of the lease.- thirty years (30) (From 
24.06.2020 onwards)
 (b)  The Annual rent of the lease.- 4% of the market  value 
of the  land  in the  year  2020 as per the valuation of 
the  Chief Valuer. this  amount of the   lease must  
be  revised  in every  five years and  the  revision 
shall not be more than 50% of the  amount that just  
preceded.
 
     Premium  : three times of the  annual lease amount.
  Fine : 10% of the  undeveloped  commercial value 
of the  land  in the  year 2020.
miscellaneous Lands notices
 (c)  the lessee must not use the said land for any purpose 
what so ever other  than a prawn  farming  project.
 (d)  t his lessees must, within a period of one (01) 
year from the date of commencement of the  lease 
develop  the said  land  to the  satisfaction of 
the Provincial land Commissioner/deputy Land  
Commissioner/divisional Secretary. 
 
 (e) this lease shall also  be  subject to other special 
conditions imposed by the Provincial  Land 
Commissioner/ divisional Secretary and other 
institutes.
 (f)  Existing/constructed buildings  must be maintained 
in a proper state of repair.
 (g) if the lessee fails to substantiate  the  purpose for 
which  the  land  was obtained  within the  specified  
period  of time,  steps will be taken  to cancel the 
agreement of lease.
  
 (h) No permission  will be  granted until expiry of 05 
years from  the  date of commencement of the  lease  
for  subleasing  assigning.
 (i)  Payment of the lease rental  must be regularly made 
and if defaulted in payment,  the agreement will 
ipso facto lapse.
if acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of herein Gazette publication to the effect  
that this land must not be given on lease, the land shall be 
leased out as requested.
 
a. K. N. SewwaNdi amaraSeKara,
 Assistant Land Commissioner,
 For Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General's department,
No. 1200/6,  Land Secretariat, “Mihikatha Medura”, 
Rajamalwatta Road, 
Battaramulla.
31st  July, 2020.
07-752

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 31.07.2020
137
PRiNTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRiNTiNG,  SRi  LANkA.
Land Commissioner General's No. 4/10/61370.
Central Provincial  Commissioner's No.: NCP/PLC/
L5/04/04.
noTIfIcATIon mADe unDeR STATe LAnD 
ReGuLATIon no. 21(2)
it is hereby notified that for the Commercial Purpose, Mr.   
Maddumage don Piyananda Sarath Kumara Kularatne  has  
requested on lease a state land containing in extent about 14.2 
Perches  marked as Lot  01 in approximate tracing  and situated 
in the  Village of   Malawa  which  belongs to the  Grama 
Niladhari  division of  No. 626, Malawa  coming within the 
area of authority of  kekirawa   Divisional Secretariat in the 
district of Anuradhapura. 
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
On the North by  :  Reservation  for  access road  ;
On the East by  : Reservation for  main road  ;
On the South by  :  Land where National Savings Bank is
    located and  State Land ;
On the West by :  Access road. 
the land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the government has intended to lease out 
the land subject to other government approved conditions and  
following  conditions. 
 (a)  Terms of the lease.- thirty years (30) (From 
15.11.2019 onwards)
 (b)  The Annual rent of the lease.- 2% of the marked value 
of the land, as per valuation of the chief valuer for the 
year 2019, When the annual value for  the land was 
less than Rupees Five Million (Rs. 5,000,000)  4% 
of the market value for the land, as per valuation of 
the chief valuer for the year 2019. When the annual 
value of the land was more than  Rupees Five Million 
(Rs. 5,000,000) for that year. this lease amount 
should be revised once in every Five years (05) and 
20% of the lease amount charged in the final year 
of the preceding 05 year period, should be added to 
the annual lease amount. 
 Premium  : Will not be charged.
 (c)  this lessee  must, within one year of the 
commencement of the lease, develop the said 
land, in such a manner as to captivate the mind 
of the divisional Secretary Provincial  Land 
Commissioner/deputy Land  Commissioner.
 (d) the lessee  must not use this land for any purposes 
other than commercial purpose.   
 (e) the lease must also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Provincial  
land Commissioner/d ivisional Secretary and by 
other institutions.
 (f) Once the land is given on  lease and in the event 
of failure on the part of the lessees to substantiate 
within the specified time frame the purpose for 
which the land was obtained, action will be taken 
to terminate the lease.
 (g) No sub-leasing or transferring  can be done until 
the expiry of a minimum period of 05 years from 
15.11.2019 ;
 
 (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
 (i)  the buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair.
  
if acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date of  publications this notification  
to the effect  that this land must not be given on lease, the 
land will be leased out as requested.
 
w. m. S. g. KaruNaratNe,
 Assistant Land Commissioner,
 For Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General's department,
No. 1200/6, “Mihikatha Medura”, Land Secretariat, 
Rajamalwatta Road, 
Battaramulla.
31st  July, 2020.
07-872