

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2008
187
187
wxl 1"538 _ 2008 fmnrjdß 22 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008'02'22
No. 1,538 – FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 190
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 191
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication . All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due  regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29th February 2008, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 15th February, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
B3-B 079645
Note.—Sri Lanka Library Association (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 20th, 2007.
Sri Dhammalankara Social Services Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 2007, Novermber 02nd.
Social Service Foundation of Wickramashila Dharmayathenaya in Bandaragama Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II
of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of 30th, November, 2007.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2008
188
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2008
189
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of
Examinations.Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2008
190
Posts - Vacant
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
BADULLA DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such as
District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development Societies and
Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District Registries.
Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 18th March, 2008.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 280, Main Street,
Colombo 11,
25th January, 2008.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which applications
 Secretariat Division applications are called should be sent
01. Badulla Haldummulla Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar District Secretary/Additional
in Haldummulla Division Registrar General/District
Secretariat, Badulla
02. Badulla Hali-Ela Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar in do.
Hali-Ela Division
03. Badulla Hali-Ela Post of Additional Muslim Marriages do.
Registrar in Hali-Ela Division
02–653
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
BADULLA DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule h ereto.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2008
191
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such as
District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development Societies and
Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District Registries.
Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 18th March, 2008.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 280, Main Street,
Colombo 11,
30th January, 2008.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which applications
 Secretariat Division applications are called should be sent
01. Badulla Maiyanganaya Post of Registrar of Births and District Secretary/Additional
Deaths in Maiyanganaya Registrar General/District
Division Secretariat, Badulla
02. Badulla Passara Post of Medical Registrar in Passara do.
Town Division
03. Badulla Haldummulla Post of Registrar of Marriage (Kandyan do.
and General) in Haputale Division and
Births and Deaths in Kandapalla
Division
02–652
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  VOCATIONAL  AND  TECHNICAL  TRAINING
Department of Technical Education and Training
ADMISSION OF STUDENTS TO COURSES FOR NA TIONAL VOCATIONAL QUALIFICATION (NVQ) LEVEL 05 AND 06,
CONDUCTED AT GALLE TECHNICAL COLLEGE (COLLEGE OF TECHNOLOGY) – 2008
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible candidates for the course, appearing in this Gazette Notification, conducted in Galle Technical
College. Students for admission will be selected from the applicants according to the qualifications and merit and the place available in each
course.
02. The prospective candidates are advised to prepare their own applications on a 13" x 8" sheet of paper in accordance with the
“Specimen Application Form” given in this notification. As specified in item 13 in the specimen application form, each application should
be affixed with a valid Rs. 10 stamp duly cancelled with the candidate’s usual signature. Duly completed applications should be sent under

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2008
192
Registered Cover to reach the Principal, Technical College (College of Technology), Kaluwella, Galle, to reach him on or before 05th March,
2008.
03. Applications received after the prescribed date will be rejected.
04. A candidate seeking admission to follow a course in the Technical college should –
(i) be of excellent moral character ;
(ii) be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(iii) have fulfilled all the eligibility requirements for admission at the time of forwarding the application.
05. Suitable candidates will be selected on the results of Selection Test, Aptitude test and/or an Interview.
06. Any documents or copies thereof, should not be submitted along with the application. Those candidates who fail to produce
the necessary and acceptable documents to prove their eligibility at the interview will be deemed disqualified.
07. Subject to a maximum of Rs. 450 a month a stipend of Rs. 20 per day for attendance to classes will be paid to students,
depending on parental income.
A limited number of students from low income families will be paid a bursary of Rs. 2,500 per year.
08. The candidate is held entirely responsible for the authenticity of his/her documents. Candidates who submit documents that
have been tampered with or forged or not proved in fact will be severely dealt with.
Dr. H. L. O
BEYESEKERA,
Director General,
Department of Technical Education and Training.
P . O. Box 557,
Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
D
ETAILS OF THE COURSE CONDUCTED IN GALLE TECHNICAL COLLEGE (COLLEGE OF TECHNOLOGY) – 2008
Code Name of Qualification Admission Qualification
No. Course Index
COT/Mech Mechatronic 01 Hold one of the following NVQ Certificate through Institutional
5 and 6 Training or Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) :
Full time day (i) Machinist NVQ Level 03 or higher ; or
(ii) Electrician NVQ Level 03 or higher ; or
Two Years (iii) Radio, TV and Allied Equipment Repairer NVQ Level
03 or higher ; or
Medium : English (iv) T ool and Die maker NVQ Level 03 or higher ; or
(v) Pneumatic Technician NVQ Level 03 or higher ; or
(vi) Tea Factory Mechanic NVQ Level 03 or higher ; or
02 Hold an acceptable relevant Non - NVQ Certificate after completing
a course or service experience of one year duration or more
REMARKS
Those who fulfill the admission qualification should pass at the following tests :
(i) Pass in the selection test ;
(ii) Pass in aptitude test ;
(iii) Pass in the interview for affective skills.
Note.– Selection test will consist of Mathematics, Science and English components and exemptions may be granted if the candidate
possesses Credit for Mathematic and passes for Science and English at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination. Aptitude test and the interview will
be compulsory for all the candidate.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2008
193
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
Application for Admission to Galle Technical College (College of Technology) – Academic Year 2008
For Official use only
(Applications must be directed to the Principal, Technical College (College of Technology) Kaluwella, Galle
01. Name of the Technical College :––––––––––––.
02. Name of the Course :––––––––––––.
03. Medium :––––––––––––.
04. Applicant’s Name with initials :––––––––––––.
05. Names indicated by Initials :––––––––––––.
06. Permanent Address and Contact Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
07. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
08. District :––––––––––––. Electorate :––––––––––––. Grama Niladari Division :––––––––––––.
09. Date of Birth :––––––––––––.
Age as at 01.01.2008 :
Years :––––––––––––, Months :––––––––––––, Days :––––––––––––.
Male/Female :––––––––––––.
10. Details of Entry Qualifications (according to the gazette notification)
Qualification Details of Certificates NVQ Level (if Name the Certificate Details of Period
Index No. applicable) issued by the Institute Experience (If any) years months
01
02
11. Please State, if you have any other Additional Qualifications and Certificates in addition to the above given details :––––––––––––.
12. Educational Qualifications :
G. C. E. (O/L) and G . C. E. (A/L) Results :
Index No. Year Subjects Grade
13. Applicant’s Declaration :
I hereby certify that the information given in this application is true to my knowledge, and I have obtained the qualifications erquired
for the course applied for. Further I agree with the scheme of selection of students to Technical Colleges and to accept the decision of
the Director General of the Department of Technical Education and Training as final.
––––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :––––––––––––.
Stamp to the value of Rs. 10 should be affixed here and cancelled by signing on it.
02–661

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2008
194
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS
Small Enterprises Development Division
FIRST  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINA TION  FOR
ENTREPRENEURSHIP  DEVELOPMENT  TRAINING
OFFICERS - 2007
THE Commissioner - General of Examination on behalf of this
Ministry will hold an Examination in Colombo for the First
Efficiency Bar of the Entrepreneurship Development Training
Officers attached to the Small Enterprises Development Division
of the Ministry of Youth Affairs. Applications forms duly perfected
in accordance with the following notice, are invited for same.
02. Scheme of Examination :
(a) This Examination will comprise of four question papers
and the syllabus for each subject is given below.
(b) The total marks for each subject is 100 and to gain a pass,
a candidate should get 40 marks. (Written test : 30 marks
out of 75 and Viva voce test : 10 marks out of 25).
(c) The examination will be conducted in Sinhala and Tamil
medium.
(d) Candidates can sit for the prescribed four subjects at one
or several sittings.
03. Question Papers and the Syllabus for each Subject :
Question paper 1 (Duration - 3 hours) :
(I) Financial Regulations : (Subject - 01)
(i) Consolidated Fund
(ii) Budgetary Classification Unit
(iii) Recurrent Expenditure, Capital Expenditure
(iv) Weeramon Procedure
(v) Supervision of the Chief Accounting Officer
(vi) Accounting Officers and Accounting Officers of the
State Revenue
(vii) Responsibilities of Chief Accounting Officers
(viii) Duties and Responsibilities of Revenue Accounting
Officers
(ix) Treasury Supervision and Control
(x) Executive Functions of the Treasury as a Department
(xi) Internal Audit
(xii) Delegation of Functions for Financial Control
(xiii) Audit Queries
(xiv) Payment Procedure
(xv) Boards of Survey
(xvi) Procedure to be followed for Procuring Supplies and
Services
(xvii) Advance
Question Paper -2 (Duration 3 hours)
(II) Establishments Code and Office Procedure : (Subject -
02)
This question paper is designed to test the knowledge
of the candidates regarding the contents of the
Establishment Code- Part I and Part II and the field
Organization Procedure.
Question Paper - 3 (3 hours)
(III) Law and  Managment - (Subject -03)
Law :
- Definition of Law
- Legal System of Sri Lanka
- Judicial System of Sri Lanka
- Registration of Companies
- Registration of Business Names
- Patents
- Income Tax
- Labour Laws
- Environmental Law
- Protection of Consumers Act
- Employees ‘Provident Fund and Employees’ Trust
Fund
- By - Laws enforced by Local Authorities
Management :
- Introduction of Management
- Functions and Skills of the Managers
- Creating Planning Process and Levels of Organization
- Organizational Structure
- Evaluation of Performance
- Motivation
- Leadership
- Communication
- Decision Making
- Productivity and Productivity Circles
- Managerial Ethics and Responsibilty
- Banking Systems
- Insurance
(This question paper is prepared to test the general
knowledge of the above mentioned subject fields.)
Question Paper -04
(IV) English (Subj ect - 04) :
(a) Written Examination
(b) Oral Examination
04. Method of Application :
(a) Application should be  prepared in conformity with
the specimen form indicated at the end of this notification
using both side of A4 size papers. Application Form

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2008
195
should be prepared using both sides and para. No. 1 to
3 should be on the first page and the  remainder on the
other side.  The relevant information should be filled
legibly by the candidate himself using own hand writing.
Any application which is not complaint with the
specimen application or incompletely filled, will be
rejected without any intimation. Retaining a photocopy
of the application with the applicant would be useful.
The Name of the Examination should be in English and
Sinhala in Sinhala applications and in Tamil applications,
it should be in English and Tamil.
(b) Duly perfected applications for the Examination should
be sent by  registered post to the following address on
or before 24.03.2008 :
Commissioner - General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka,
Organizations and Foreign Examination Branch,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
(c) The worlds 
“First Efficiency Bar Examination of the
Entrepreneurship Development Training Officers ”
should clearly be written on the top left hand corner of
the envelop enclosing the application. Any application
received after the closing date will not be accepted.
(d) Applicants will not be acknowledged. A notice will be
published in the newspapers as soon as Admission
Cards are issued to Applicants by the  Commissioner
General of Examinations. It is important to be alert for
such a notice. A candidate who does not receive his
Admission Card at least 2 or 3 days after the newspaper
notice, should immediately notify the Commissioner
General of Examinations, as advised in notice, sending
the following documents along with your request, to
The Commissioner General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka,
(Organization and Foreign Examination Branch),
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
are more effective : Photocopy of the application that
you retained, certified photocopy of the cash receipt,
postal registration receipt (and a Fax No. for sending
the Admission Card if the candidate is from outside
Colombo). Address for Telegrams : 
“Exams”, Pelawatta
Battaramulla.
(a) Name of Examination ;
(b) Full Name of Candidates ;
(c) Address ;
(d) Date of posting the application ;
(e) Name of post office and registration number.
05. Admission to the Examination :
(a) Commissioner General of Examination will issue
Admission Cards to all candidates who have sent their
applications. Candidates should sit for the examination
at the examination center assigned to them. Candidates
should produce the admission card, signature of which
is attested, to the Supervisor of the Examination Centre.
A candidate who fails to produce his admission card,
will not be permitted to sit for the examination. Rules
and instructions to be observed by the candidates are
indicated in this Gazette Notification.
Note.- The issue of an Admission Card to a candidate
does not necessarily mean that he or she has the
requisite qualification to sit for the examination. All
candidates are bound to abide by the rules laid- down
by the Commissioner General of Examinations. A
candidate who violates any of those rules is liable to
punishment at the discretion of the Commissioner
General of Examinations.
(b)  Identification of the Candidate .– A  candidate will be
required to prove his identity at the Examination Hall
to the satisfaction of the Supervisor for each subject he/
she appears. For this purpose, only one of the following
documents will be accepted :
(i) National Identity Card,
(ii)  A valid passport.
S. W
IRITHAMULLA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Youth Affairs.
Ministry of Youth Affairs,
Bauddhaloka Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
For office use only.
MINISTRY OF YOUTH AFFAIRS
SMALL ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT DIVISION
First Efficiency Bar Examination for the Small
Entrepreneurship Development Training Officers
Medium of Language
Sinhala = 2 /Tamil = 3
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
1. Name :
1.1 Last name with initials :—––——.
(In English Capital Letters)
For Example : SILVA G. A.
1.2 Name in Full :—––——.
(In English Capital Letters)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2008
196
1.3 Name in Full :—––——.
(In Sinhala)
1.4 National Identity Card Number :
1.5 Sex :
(Female - 1, Male - 2) (Indicate in the relevant cage)
2. Address :
2.1 Official Address :———.
(In English Capital Letters)
(Admission Card will be sent to this address)
2.2 Permanent Address :———.
(In Sinhala Capital Letters)
3. Subjects offered at the Examination :-
1. .......................................... Subject No.
2. ...........................................Subject No.
3. ..........................................Subject No.
4. ..........................................Subject No.
I declare that the information given above is true. I am also
aware that I am bound to abide by the rules laid down by the
Commissioner General of Examinations in relation to conducting of
the examination.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :———.
Certificate of the Head of the Institution
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss............. who submits this
application placed her/his signature in my presence and the
particulars furnished by him/her are correct and he/she is eligible to
sit the Efficiency Bar Examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature.
Date :—––——.
Name:——––—.
Designation :——––—.
Address :——––—.
02-565
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.