

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2009
1755
1755
wxl 1"625 - 2009 Tlaf;dan¾ 23 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'10'23
No. 1,625 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 23, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1758
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 1760
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 30th October, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 16th
October, 2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.– Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,624 of  16.10.2009 was not published.
The Catalogue of books printed quarterly in October-December 2006 has been published in Part V of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2009
1756
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2009
1757
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2009
1758
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Kandy District
POSTS OF REGISTRARS - MARRIAGES, BIRTHS AND DEATHS
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 23rd November, 200 9.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
16th September, 2009.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretary's Division applications are called applications should be Sent
Kandy Pathahewaheta Post of Registrar of Birth and District Secretary/Additional
Deaths in No. 02 Gamdahaya South and Registrar General District
Marriages (Kandyan/General) in Secretariat, Kandy
Pathahewaheta
Kandy Kadawathsathara Post of Registrar of Marriages (Kandyan/General) District Secretary/Additional
and Gangawata in Kadawathsathara and Gangawata Korale Registrar General District
Korale Secretariat, Kandy
10-657
–––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Matale District
POSTS OF REGISTRARS - MARRIAGES, BIRTHS AND DEATHS
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule h ereto.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2009
1759
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 23rd November, 200 9.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
17th September, 2009.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretary's Division applications are called applications should be Sent
Matale Laggala Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths in District Secretary/Additional
Pallegama Gagala Udasiya and Marriages (Kandyan/ Registrar General District
General) in Matale East Secretariat, Matale
Matale Ambanganga Post of Registrar of Birth and Deaths in District Secretary/Additional
Korale Ambanganga South and Marriages (Kandyan/ Registrar General District
General) in Matale East Secretariat, Matale
10-655
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Kandy District
POSTS OF REGISTRARS OF MUSLIM MARRIAGES
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Marriage Registration Divisions and should be entitled to properties
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Muslim Males only can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2009
1760
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 23rd November, 200 9.
E. M. GUNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
16th September, 2009.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretary's Division applications are called applications should be Sent
Kandy Y atinuwara Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar in District Secretary/Additional
Walgampaya Division Registrar General, District
Secretariat, Kandy
10-656
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTHCARE  AND  NUTRITION
Recruitment of Pupil Nurses – 2009
APPLICATIONS are invited from the unmarried citizens of Sri Lanka with following qualifications for recruitment as Pupil Nurses under
the Department of Health Services. (The Number of recruitments of males will be based on the requirements of Institution under the
Control of the Ministry).
01. Educational Qualifications :
(a) Passed G. C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination until year 2008 with minimum 03 subjects at one attempt from the
Science stream of subjects ;
(b) Passed G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination in six subjects at not more than two sittings, with credit passes for 04
subjects including Language, Mathematics and Science ;
The certified photostat copies of the certificate of the above two examinations should be attached to the application
to confirm the Educational Qualifications.
02. Other Qualifications :
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Should be not less than 18 and not more 30 years of age as at 20.11.2009 ;
(c) Height should be not less than 04 feet 10 inches ;
(d) Should be unmarried ;
(e) Should be physically fit and willing to serve in any part of the island ;
(f) Only those applicants who satisfy the above qualifications will be called for the interview. The required number will be
selected at district level based on the merit order of marks secured at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination.
Certified copies of the voters list should be submitted in the interview to prove 03 years residence within the district
applied for by the candidate. If the name of the applicant is not available in the voters list, the names of his/her, parents
should be available in the voters list.
In order to confirm the names of the parents, a certified copy of the Certificate of Birth of the applicant should be
submitted in the interview.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2009
1761
03. Method of application :
(a) Application should be prepared using both sides of a paper in the size of 8 1/2" x 13 1/2" on the form of specimen
appended to this notice. The section 01-09 should appear on page No. 01 section 10 page No. 02 and Section 11-13 page
No. 03 as per given in the specimen form of application.
(b) Application duly perfected should be sent under Registered Cover to reach the Director (Admin.) 01, Ministry of
Healthcare and Nutrition, No. 385, "Suwasiripaya", Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10, on or
before 20.11.2009. The words "recruitment to the Pupil Nurses Training 2009" should be already written on the top left
hand corner of the envelope enclosing applications. Applications received late will be rejected while the department will
not take this responsibility of any lost or delay of applications in the post.
The signature of the application should be attested by an officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Education
Service/Government Accountant Service/Principal of a Government School/Justice of the Peace/Attorney-at-Law or by
an officer in the Public Service holding a post with an initial salary per annum not less than Rs. 240,360.
(c) Should affix stamps to the value of Rs. 500 in the stamp cage provided in the application and cancel the stamps by
placing the applicant's signature on it.
04. Scheme of Training :
(a) The selected applicants will be admitted to the nursing training school as pupil nurses and they should follow the training
course for 03 years in Sinhala/Tamil Language medium.
(b) The trainees at the time of admission to the training will be provided with rules and regulations are force within the school
of training. They are bound by these rules and regulations and also by an other rules and regulations which would be
enforced from time to time.
(c) The trainees who are unsuccessful at the prescribed examinations or whose work and conduct are found to be unsatisfactory
or who failed to comply with the examinations and leave regulations of the school of which they are assigned during the
period of training are liable to be discontinued from training at any time without payment of any compensation. The
trainees will not entitle for any type of leave during the training period and deductions will be made from the monthly
allowance in the proportion with the month of days absent from training. However it is compulsory to mark 80% of
attendance each year to become qualify to sit for the examination.
(d) The trainees during the period of training in a school nursing will be paid an allowance as follows :
1st year - Rs. 12,920 (per month)
2nd year - Rs. 13,040 (per month)
3rd year - Rs. 13,160 (per month)
The trainees who pass the final examination, after successful completion of training, they will be appointed to the post
of staff nurse Grade II seg. "B" by the Director General of Health Services on the relevant salary scales defending on the
availability of vacancies of the post.
(e) The trainee should pay to the Department all the allowances paid to him/her and the all expenses incurred by the
government for training on his/her behalf within the period of training, provided he/she withdrew or vacated from training
during the period of training.
05. Condition and the agreement of remaining unmarried :
(a) All applicants should be unmarried at the time of submitting their applications and it is compulsory that they should
remain unmarried, during hte period of 03 years training. A certificate obtained from the Grama Niladhari countersigned
by the Divisional Secretary confirming the status of being unmarried should be submitted in the interview.
(b) The pupil nurses at the time of admission to the nurse's training school should enter into an agreement with the Director
General of Health Services that they complete the training successfully and serve the Department of Health Services
minimum of 10 years after completion of training. The Director General of Health Services will decide on this period
from time to time.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2009
1762
06. Terms of engagement :
(a) The post of staff nurse to which the pupil nurses are appointed on the results of the final examination conducted at the
end of the training is pensionable and contribution should be made to the widows and orphans pension fund.
(b) The appointment to the post of staff nurse Grade II seg. "B" will be subject on the 3 years probation.
07. Service Conditions :
(a) All the trainees before commencement of the training school, should undergo a medical examination.
(b) Appointment will be given to the vacancies existing in the post of nursing officer Grade II seg. "B" on the salary scale of
Rs. 15,620 - 4 x 180 - 6 x 240 - 11 x 320 - 20 x 360 - Rs. 28,500 (Public Admin Circular No. 6/2006(iv)).
(c) All the officers in the nursing service are subject to the provisions in the establishment code of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka. Transfers implemented in terms of policies stipulated by the Department of Health Services,
Financial and the other regulations and to the other rules and regulations enforced by the Government by time to time.
(d) The decision of the Secretary, Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition will be the final in respect of any issue arising and
of the recruitment to the training which are not concerned by this Gazette Notification.
Dr. H. A. P. K
AHANDALIYANAGE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
APPLICATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT FOR THE PUPIL NURSE'S TRAINING – 2009
01. ( a) Name with initials (in English capitals) :––––––––––.
(b) Name in full (in English capitals) :––––––––––.
02. Postal Address :––––––––––.
03. ( a) Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(b) District :––––––––––.
04. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––, Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
05. Age at 20.11.2009 :
Years :––––––––––, Months :––––––––––, Days :––––––––––.
06. Male/Female : Mark 3 in the relevant cage :
Male
Female
07. Whether citizen of Sri Lanka : Mark 3 in the relevant cage :
Yes
No
08. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
09. Height : Feet :––––––––––, Inches :––––––––––.
10. ( a) General Certificate of Education (Advance Level) Examination (Science Stream of Subjects) (Please attach a copy of the mark
sheet)
Year :––––––––––.  Index No. :––––––––––.
Subject Grade For office use only Subject Grade For office use only
1. 3.
2. 4.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2009
1763
(b) General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination :
(i) Year and month of the Examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :––––––––––.
(iii) First Sitting :––––––––––.
Subject Grade For office use only Subject Grade For office use only
1. Maths 7.
2. Language 8.
3. Science 9.
4. 10.
5. 11.
6. 12.
(iv) Second Sitting :––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––.
Subject Grade For office use only Subject Grade For office use only
1. Maths 7.
2. Language 8.
3. Science 9.
4. 10.
5. 11.
6. 12.
11. Have you been found guilty for any charge by a Court of Law ? :
Yes
No
If 'yes' please give details :––––––––––.
12. ( a) I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge.
(b) I am also aware that if any particulars contained there in are found to be false or incorrect. I am liable to disqualification before
selection and to dismissal, if it is discovered so after appointment.
Affix stamps to the value Rs. 500 and cancel same by signing over it.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
13. Attestation :
I do hereby certify that the applicant .......................... is personally known by me, and he/she is placed his/her signa ture in my
presence on ................ day of .................. 2009.
–––––––––––,
Attestor's Signature.
Full name of the Attesting Officer :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
10–690

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2009
1764
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTHCARE  AND  NUTRITION – 2009
Recruitment of Students for Cardiographer Training in the Professions Supplementary to Medicine
APPLICATIONS are invited from the eligible citizens of Sri Lanka for recruitment to the Cardiographer Training Course in the Professions
Supplementary to Medicine in the Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
01. The eligible persons will be selected based on a priority list prepared on the Z Score marks of the General Certificate of
Education (Advanced Level) Examination from 2003 to 2007.
02. Selection will be made based on district population ratio depending on the number of students to be recruited for training.
03. Since this is a full-time course, the students who attend to other courses on 05 working days of the week and forenoon on
Saturday should not apply for this course.
04. The period of training is one year.
05. Educational Qualifications :
5.1 G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects including English, at not more than two sittings with Credit passes for Sinhala/
Tamil Language, Mathematics, Science and one more subject.
5.2 G. C. E. (A/L) Examination from 2003 to 2007 in 03 subjects at one sitting in Science Stream of subjects with a pass for
Physics and a Credit pass for Zoology/Biology including one of the following subjects (Botany, Agricultural Science and
Chemistry). It is compulsory that the Z-score value of the G . C. E. (A/L) should be included in the application.
06. Other Qualifications :
(a) Should be not less than 18 and not more than 30 years of age at 30.11.2009.
(b) Should agree to serve in any part of the Island.
(c) Should be physically fit and healthy.
(d) Should be a resident for a period of 03 years within the district from which the applicant submit his/her application.
07. Method of Application :
(a) Applications should be prepared as per form of application attached to this letter. Applicant should affix stamps to the
value of Rs. 500 on the "Stamps Cage" in the application and cancel them by placing his/her signature.
(b) The signature of the applicant should be attested by an officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Education Service/
Government Accountants Service/Principal of a Government School/Justice of the Peace/Attorney-at-Law or by a
Government Officer drawing a salary not less than Rs. 240,360 per annum.
(c) The applications perfected should be sent under registered cover to reach the Director (Administration) 02, Ministry of
Healthcare and Nutrition, "Suwasiripaya", No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10, on or
before 30.11.2009. "Recruitment of trainees to the post Electro Cardiographers" should be written on the left hand corner
of the envelope enclosing applications.
08. Applications will not be acknowledged.
09. Applications received after the due date will be rejected.
10. Applications which do not conform to the requirements of the notice will rejected.
11. Applicants, who have fulfilled educational and other qualifications above and submitted their applications through proper
channel, will be called for interviews. The applicants should submit originals of the following documents at the interview. The candidature
of those candidates who fail to submit originals of the relevant documents at the interview will be cancelled :–
(a) Certificate of Birth ;
(b) Originals of the educational certificates and in the absence of originals, the results sheet issued to external candidates or
the original of the letter issued to the applicant by the Principal of the school from which the applicant sit for the
examination.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2009
1765
(c) Certificate issued by the Department of Examinations indicating the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination Z-score marks level ;
(d) National Identity Card/Passport/Driving License ;
(e) Grama Seva Certificate counter signed by the Divisional Secretary to confirm the status of unmarried.
12. Scheme of Training :
(i) Selected candidates will be admitted to the .......... Training schools. Candidates should follow the course in English
medium.
(ii) The trainees will be subject to the rules and regulations in force within the Training Schools and other regulations
enforced form time to time by the Department of Health.
(iii) The training of those who fail in the examinations or whose work and conduct proved to be unsatisfactory or who fail
to comply with the conditions in their schools of training during the period of training is liable to be stopped at any time
without payment of any compensation.
(iv) The trainees will be paid Rs. 6,000 per mensum during the period of training.
(v) The trainees when entering into the Schools of Training should enter into an agreement with the Director General of
Health Services to the effect that the trainee shall complete the training successfully without leaving the same and if
given an appointment after completion of training shall serve the Department of Health Services for a minimum of 10
years period. In the event he/she withdraws from the training or leaves the training or had to be discontinued from the
training as per para (iii) above during the period of training, he/she shall refund to the Department the expenditure
incurred for the payment of allowances and other expenses borne by the Government during the period of his/her
training. Otherwise action will be taken to recover such expenses incurred by the Department as stipulated in the
agreement.
13. Terms of Engagement.– The Department is not bound to grant permanent appointments at the end of the training. However,
the trainees who succeed in the final examination will be given appointments to the Class III of the relevant post, depending o n their
merits. It is compulsory that they serve for two years in the original station from the date of first appointment.
14. When filling in applications the educational and other qualifications should be entered with due care. Provided that
certificates so furnished were proved to be false or incorrect after recruitment for training or after giving appointments, act ion will be
taken to cancel the appointment or discontinue from the training dismiss from the service and also to blacklist their names and  there by
preventing them from re-entering to the Government Service.
15. The selected candidates should undergo a medical examination, to assure their physical and mental fitness to serve in my
part of Sri Lanka and those who are proved unfit in the said medical examination will become disqualify to continue with their training.
16. All the officers so recruited will be subject to the provisions of the Establishments Code of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka, policies enforced by the Department of Health Services, Financial and other regulations and rules and regulations
and orders enacted from time to time by the Government.
17. The decision of the Secretary, Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition will be the final in respect of any issue arose out of the
recruitment to the training which does not cover by this Gazette Notification.
Dr. H. A. P. K
AHANDALIYANAGE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition,
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo - 10,
23rd September, 2009.
APPLICATION
R
ECRUITMENT OF STUDENTS FOR CARDIOGRAPHER TRAINING IN THE PROFESSIONS SUPPLEMENTARY TO MEDICINE IN THE
MINISTRY OF HEALTHCARE AND NUTRITION - 2009
01. ( a) Name with initials (in block capitals) :
(b) Name in full (in block capitals) :
02. Postal Address (in block capitals) :

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2009
1766
03. National Identity Card No. :
04. (i) Permanent Address (in block capitals) :
(ii) District :
(iii) Are you a permanent resident in the District ? : Yes/No
(iv) If yes, how long ? :
05. Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
Age as at 30.11.2009 :
Years :––––––––––, Months :––––––––––, Days :––––––––––.
06. Male/Female (Mark “ 3 ” in the relevant cage) :
07. Height :––––––––––. feet :––––––––––. inches
08. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka :––––––––––.
(Mark “3 ” in the relevant cage) :
Yes
No
09. Are you married or unmarried :––––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications :––––––––––.
(a) General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination :––––––––––.
(Science subject only) (Please attache copy of mark list) :
District appeared for this Examination :
Year :––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––. Z-Score :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
(b) General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination :
First Sitting :
Year :––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01. 07.
02. 08.
03. 09.
04. 10.
05. 11
06. 12.
Second Sitting :
Year :––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01. 07.
02. 08.
03. 09.
04. 10.
05. 11
06. 12.
Male
Female

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2009
1767
11. Have you been convicted by a Court of Law for any charge ?
(Mark “3 ” in the relevant cage) :
Yes
No
If "yes" please furnish details :––––––––––.
12. Certificate of Applicant :
(a) I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge and I am no t
undergoing any fulltime course at present.
(b) I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified be fore
selection and to dismissal without compensation if the inaccuracy is discovered after the selection.
"Stamp Cage"
–––––––––––––,
Date :––––––––––. Signature of applicant.
13. Attestation :
I do hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................ is personally known to me and he/she placed his signature in my
presence on this day of ...................... 2009.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
Date :––––––––––. With official seal.
Details of Attestor :
Full Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
10–790
–––––––––––––––––
EXAMINATION  FOR  PROMOTION  OF  OFFICERS  IN  CLASS  III  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS'
SERVICE  INTO  CLASS  II  OF  THE  SERVICE  –  2009
IT is hereby notified that a qualifying examination for promotion of officers in Class III of Public Management Assistants' Ser vice into
Class II of the Service will be held in all three languages i. e.  Sinhala, Tamil and English in the month of February, 2010 by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations.
2.0 This examination for the promotion of officers in Class III of the Public Management Assistants' Service into Class II of the
Service will be held in Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullativu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, Anuradhapura,
Badulla, Ratnapura and Kilinochchi. The list of towns with their respective town numbers is given below.
Town Town Number
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullativu 07
Trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
Anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2009
1768
Any  center without a sufficient number of candidates shall be cancelled and the remaining candidates will be assigned to the next
nearest center. It will not be allowed to change the town applied for subsequently.
3.0 (i) This examination will be held by the Commissioner General of Examinations and candidates are bound by the rules
and regulations stipulated by him in respect of holding this examination. Issuance of an admission card to a candidate
should not be regarded as an acceptance of his/her eligibility to sit the examination.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been separately printed in the Gazette Notification. Candidates will be
subjected to any punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for violation of these rules and
regulations.
4.0 Eligibility.– Officers in Class III of the Service, who have been confirmed in their posts before 23rd November, 2009 and who
have completed an active service period of 04 years within which a period of satisfactory service has been completed, are eligi ble to
appear for this examination.
Note.– The date of qualifying for promotion to Class II of the service of an officer will be the date the officer passed the
examination or the date in which he/she complete 05 years of active and satisfactory service, whichever occurs later.
5.0 Scheme of Examination.– The subjects of the examination and the marks assigned to each subject are given below. Marks will
be deducted for bad handwriting and spelling mistakes. Candidates whose handwriting is illegible are liable to be disqualified.
Subject Marks Duration
(i) Establishment Procedure 100 02 Hours
(ii) Financial Systems 100 02 Hours
(iii) General Paper 100 01 Hour
Establishments Procedure. – The objective of this question paper is to test the proficiency of experience obtained in office
activities and to test the knowledge on office systems adopted in government offices to cover subject fields such as principles  of office
procedures, importance of office procedures, written communication, filing methods and preparation of forms etc. This paper will consist
of a section to test the knowledge of candidate on matters indicated in volume 01 of the Establishments Code. The paper will co nsist of
two parts.
Part I - 25 Questions of multiple choice type – 30 Minutes (25 marks)
Part II - Candidates are required to answer 03 out of 04 semi-structured type questions – 1 1/2 Hours (75 marks)
Financial Systems. – The question paper will be as follows :
(a) Part I - Exercises on adding and subtraction – 15 minutes (25 marks)
(b) Part II - 05 semi-structured questions to test the candidates' knowledge and understanding of subjects such as
Financial Control exercised in government offices, departments and ministries, custody of finance, receipts and
payments, budgetary estimations, supplies, work and service. (50 marks)
(c) Part III - 03 structured questions to test the knowledge of candidate on basics of inspection and storing of goods.
(25 marks)
Note.– Candidates will not be allowed to use calculators for adding exercises.
General Paper.– This paper is designed to test the ability of the candidate to read and understand a statement or minutes of
discussion and prepare a report and/or a letter and also to test the ability of the candidate to understand and analyze the cur rent social
affairs. This paper will consist of two parts.
Part I - Candidates are required to answer 02 questions given from a paragraph or a certain problem (45 marks).
Part II - Three semi structured type questions will be given and candidates are required to answer 02 questions. The question
for which writing short notes is compulsory.
Compulsory Question (short notes) - 30 marks
Other questions - 25 marks
Total - 55 marks
Note.–
(i) The candidates should answer these question papers in the language medium in which they sat the entry examination
to the service or any other official language.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2009
1769
(ii) To qualify in these subjects, candidates will be required to obtain a minimum of 33 percent (33%) of the marks in each
of these papers and an average of 40 percent (40%) of the marks in all three papers in one sitting.
6.0 Commissioner-General of Examinations will release the results of this examination to the Director-General of Combined
Services and the names of the successful candidates will be published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
7.0 The application for this examination should be in the form of the specimen appended to this notification. Applicants should
prepare the applications themselves according to the specimen. Applications prepared thus should be sent by the registered post  through
the respective Heads of Departments to reach the Commissioner - General of Examinations, Department of Examinations, Organizations
and Foreign Examinations Branch, Pelawatte, Battaramulla on or before 23rd November, 2009. The application form should accompany
a certificate of satisfactory service. Heads of Departments must ensure that each application is completed in every respect and  that they
have signed the service certificate appended to the application form. The name of the examination should be indicated in the top-left hand
corner of the envelope. Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
8.0 Identity of the Candidates.– Candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of
the supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, one of the following documents should be submitted to the supervi sor.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registrations of Persons,
(ii) A valid Passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
9.0 Applications.– Applications should be prepared in papers of A4 size in such a manner that para nos. 1.0 to 4.0 appear on
the first page and remaining numbers in other pages. The application could be typewritten but should be filled in correctly and legibly by
candidate's own handwriting. It is compulsory to indicate the title of the examination appearing the specimen in English language, too, on
both Sinhala and Tamil application forms. It is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the application form perfected by him/
herself complies with the specimen given in the examination notice and further, it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of th e
completed application form.
The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time need not pay examination fees. However, stamps to the value
of Rs. 90 should be affixed for subsequent sittings and the stamps should be duly cancelled by placing signature of the candidate and the
date. Under any circumstances, this fee will not be refunded or transferred in respect of any other examination.
The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue copies of the time table and admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been received. Candidates should get their signature on the admission card attested in advance and surrender to the
supervisor of the examination hall. Candidates without admission cards will not be permitted to sit for the examination. A notification will
be published in newspapers by the Department of Examinations as soon as the admission cards are issued to candidates. If the admission
card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the Department of Examinatio ns in the
manner specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the Departmen t of
Examinations : i. e. receipt of registration and in case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of request, furnishing a fax num ber to which
the admission card should be sent.
10.0 The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations to enable them to appear for the examination. No travelling expenses will be paid.
11.0 For the purpose of the Official Langauges Policy, all the candidates should prepare and fill their applications in the official
language.
12.0 The decision of the Director-General of Combined Services will be final in any matter not provided for in this notification.
B. P. P. S. ABEYGUNARA THNE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
07th October, 2009.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2009
1770
Specimen Application Form
(For Office use only)
EXAMINATION FOR PROMOTION OF OFFICERS IN CLASS III OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS' SERVICE
INTO CLASS II OF THE SERVICE – 2009
Language medium in which the candidate intends Town Town No.
to sit for the examination :
Sinhala 2 (Indicate relevant number in the cage. (Indicate the name of the town in which you wish to appear for the
Tamil 3 Candidates shall not be allowed to change examination as per para 2.0 of the gazette notification. Candidates
English 4 this subsequently) shall not be permitted to be change this subsequently)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals) eg : SUNIL, A. B.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 Have you changed your name after entering the Public Service ? if so, indicate the previous name :–––––––––––.
2.0 Name and address of place of work :–––––––––––.
2.1 Name and the address of Office/Department/Institution :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.2 Name and the address of Office/Department/Institute :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
(Admission cards will be sent to this address)
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1
Male - 0 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month :                 Date :
4.0 National Identity Card No. :
5.0 Present Post :
5.1 Post :–––––––––––.
5.2 Number and date of the Appointment Letter :–––––––––––.
5.3 Date of confirmation in the post as an officer in Class III of the service :–––––––––––.
6.0 6.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :–––––––––––.
6.2 If not, value of the stamps affixed :–––––––––––.
6.3 Stamp Cage :
Affix stamps to the value of Rs. 90 for subsequent sittings.
7.0 Candidate's Statement :
I solemnly certify that,
(i) The statement made by me above is true to the best of my knowledge and belief.
(ii) I am an of ficer in Public Management Assistants' Service and my appointment has been confirmed on ................
(iii) I have earned all/all possible increments during the period of 4 years immediately preceding 23rd November, 2009.
(iv) I have not suffered any punishment more servere than a fine or a reprimand since the date of last increment.
(v) I appear for this examination for the first time/that stamps to the correct value are affixed here as exam fee.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2009
1771
I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false and incorrect, disciplinary actions would be taken
against me. I agree to abide by the regulations of this examination.
I hereby state that information furnished above are true and that I am eligible to appear for the exam in the language medium
mentioned above. The stamps affixed to the value of Rs. .......... are valid and has not been used. I agree to abide by the rules stipulated for
this examination.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
(See the footnote)
Date :–––––––––.
Note.– The candidate should sign in the presence of the Head of his/her Department or an officer authorized to sign on behalf
of the Head of Department.
ATTESTATION OF THE SIGNATURE
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................... who is an officer employed at my work place and who is known to me personally
placed his/her signature in my presence on .................. 2009.
––––––––––––,
Signature and stamp of the person attesting.
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
C
ERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I certify that,
(i) Mr./Mrs./Miss .................. is an officer in class III of the Public Management Assistants' Service and has completed 0 4
years of service as at 23rd November, 2009 and is eligible to sit the examination in terms of the notification published in
the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka dated ...............
(ii) The number of the appointment letter of class III of officer as per his/her personal file is ................
(Indicate the number of the appointment letter)
(iii) The particulars given in Para 1.0 to 7.0 have been verified and were found to be correct.
(iv) He/she is sitting the examination for the first time/prescribed stamps for the relevant examination has been affixed.
*(Delete inapplicable words)
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department and official stamp.
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
10–791
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.