

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'05
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.01.2015
w;s úfYI
wxl 1896$4 - 2015 ckjdß ui 05 jeks i÷od - 2015'01'05
No.1896/4  - MONDAY   JANUARY   05,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
Be it enacted by the Provincial Council of the Northern Province  as follows :-
1. This statute may be cited as the “Appropriation Statute No. 04 of 2014.”
2. (1) Without prejudice to any other law authorizing any expenditure of the Provincial Council
of the Northern Province which it is estimated to be Rupees Seventeen Thousand
Eight Hundred and Fifty Eight Million Six Hundred and Ninety Thousand only
(Rs.17, 858,690,000) for the expenditure during the financial year 2015 commencing from
January 1st, 2015 and ending on December 31st 2015 shall be met.
(a) from the proceeds of grants authorized by the Central Government,
and
(b) Out of Provincial Fund or any other funds or monies, at the disposal of the Provincial
Council of the Northern Province may be expended as specified in the First Schedule
to this statute.
(II) The Expenditure incurred by the Provincial Council of the Northern Province during the
financial year 2015 on each activity specified in Column 1 of the Second Schedule to this
statute shall be paid out of the receipts of the Provincial Council of the Northern Province,
for such activity during that financial year, however such expenditure shall not exceed the
limits specified in the corresponding entry in that Schedule.
3. The debit balance, outstanding at the end of the Financial Year 2015 of any activity specified
in the Second Schedule to this statute shall not exceed the maximum limits specified in the
Short Title
Appropriation for
financial year 2015
NORTHERN    PROVINCE     PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
Appropriation Statute No. 04  of  2014
A Statute to provide for the service of the Financial Year 2015, to authorize to make financial provision in respect of certain
activities of the Provincial Council of the Northern Province during the Financial Year, to enable the payment, by way of
advances out of the Provincial Fund or any other fund or monies, of or at the disposal of the Provincial Council of the
Northern Province, of monies required during the financial year for expenditure on such activities, to provide for the refund
of such monies to the Provincial Fund and to make provision for matters connected with or incidental thereto.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'05
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.01.2015
2A
corresponding entry of that activity and the end of that financial year shall not exceed the
maximum limits specified in the corresponding entry.
4. (I) any monies which by virtue of the provisions of the First Schedule to this Statute have
been allocated to recurrent expenditure under any programme appearing under any Head
specified in that Schedule and not have been expended or likely to be not expended may
be transferred to the capital expenditure, within that programme or to the allocation of
recurrent expenditure or capital expenditure under any programme within that Head, by
order of the Chief Secretary or any officer authorized by him.
(II) Monies allocated to capital expenditure under any Head specified in the First Schedule to
this Statute shall be transferred to any other Head subject to approval granted by the
Provincial Council of the Northern Province.
5. Where the Chief Minister is satisfied :
(I) that receipts from taxes and other sources will be less than the amounts anticipated to
meet authorized expenditure,
or
(II) that amount originally appropriated for a particular purpose or purposes are no longer
required, he may authorize the Chief Secretary of the Northern Province to withdraw in
whole or in part any amount previously released for expenditure under the authority of a
warrant issued by him from the Provincial Fund or, from any other fund or monies, of or at
the disposal of The Provincial Council of the Northern Province.
6. The Chief Minister may on or before March 31st, 2016 by order, vary or alter
 (I) any of the maximum limits specified in the Second Schedule to this Statute.
(II) the minimum limits specified the Second Schedule  to this Statute
7. Provincial Council of the Northern Province may by resolution, amend the Second Schedule
to this Statute by adding an activity to the appropriate column,
(I) All or any of the maximum limits and
(II) The minimum limits relating to such activity
8. Under the Office of the Deputy Chief Secretary - Finance Project No: 04 of Financial
Management Programme (421-08-04) may be transferred to any Programme on any Head of
First Schedule by the  Chief Secretary  Consequently, such transfers have to be submitted to
the Provincial Council as supplementary estimates for approval.
9. If there is any discrepancy  between Tamil, Sinhala and English version the Tamil version will
prevail.
Power to transfer
unexpended monies
allocated to
recurrent
expenditure to
another allocation
within the same
programme under
the same head of
expenditure
Power of the
Provincial Council
to transfer capital
expenditure to
other heads.
Power of Chief
Minister to limit
previously
authorized
expenditure
Power of Chief
Minister to vary the
maximum and
minimum limits
specified in the
second schedule to
this statute
Power of Provincial
Council to amend
the second schedule
Tamil text to
prevail in event of
inconsistency
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
C. V . KANDIY A SIV AGNANAM, B. J EYAHARAN,
Chairman, Asst. Secretary,
Northern Provincial Council. Assembly Secretariat,
Northern Province.
01- 535