

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC 
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
 SRI  LANKA
Part II of February 28, 2025
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 04.03.2025)
Price : Rs. 18.00  Postage : Rs. 150.00
This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
SRI LANKA OPTOMETRIC ASSOCIATION 
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Sri Lanka Optometric Association
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. (Dr.) Kavinda Heshan 
Jayawardhana M.P. for Gampaha District
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
(Private Members’ Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

Sri Lanka Optometric Association (Incorporation) 1
5
15
20
25
2 - PL 15112 -  285 (01/2025)
10
 An Act  to  incorporate the Sri Lanka Optometric 
Association
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the                   
“Sri Lanka Optometric Association” has heretofore been 
formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying 
out its objects and transacting all matters connected with 
the said Association according to the rules agreed to by its 
members:
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore 
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects 
and matters for which it was established, and has applied 
to be incorporated and it will be expedient to grant the said 
application:
BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Optometric
Association (Incorporation) Act, No.     of 2025.
2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the    
Sri Lanka Optometric Association (hereinafter referred to as 
the “Association”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members 
of the Association hereby constituted, shall be a body 
corporate with perpetual succession, under the name and 
style of the “Sri Lanka Optometric Association” (hereinafter 
referred to as the “body corporate”) and by that name may 
sue and be sued, in all Courts with full power and authority 
to have and use a common seal and to alter the same at its 
pleasure.
(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a voluntary 
social service organization within the meaning, and for the 
purpose of the Voluntary Social Service Organizations 
Short title
Incorporation 
of the 
Sri Lanka 
Optometric 
Association
Preamble

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Sri Lanka Optometric Association (Incorporation)
5
15
20
25
10
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the 
provisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to the 
management of the affairs of the Corporation.
3. The body corporate shall operates exclusively as a not
for proﬁ t Organization and it is solely for the bene ﬁ t of the 
Association and its members.
4. (1) The general objects for which the body corporate is
constituted are hereby declared to be -
(a) to plan strategically to achieve the enhancement
and development of primary eye and vision care
by optometrists in Sri Lanka;
(b) to promote high standards of education and practice 
by optometrists in Sri Lanka;
(c) to promote the advancement of the science of
optometry for the beneﬁ t of mankind;
(d) to unite and coordinate optometry in Sri Lanka;
(e) to generally support aid programmes directed at
the provision of eye and vision care to persons in
need;
(f) to promote, safeguard and further the interest,
rights and privileges of optometrists in Sri Lanka;
(g) to keep members informed of matters relating to
optometry;
(h) to maintain liaison with government authorities,
international organizations and other persons or
organizations related to optometry; and
Body 
corporate 
operates as a 
not-for-proﬁ t 
Organization
The General 
objects of 
the body 
corporate

<!-- page 4 -->

Sri Lanka Optometric Association (Incorporation) 3
5
15
20
25
30
10
(i) to conduct examinations and issue quali ﬁ cation
certiﬁ cates.
(2) In the implementation of the objects speci ﬁ ed
in subsection (1) the body corporate shall ensure that 
such implementation shall be carried out without any 
discrimination based on race, religion, language, caste, sex, 
political opinion, place of birth or any of such grounds.
5. The objects of the body corporate shall be carried out
in such manner so as not to create any con ﬂ ict between the 
work of the body corporate and any work being carried 
out simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of the 
Government or any Provincial Council.
6. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act the body
corporate shall be carried out by an Executive Committee 
(hereinafter referred to as “the Committee” consisting of 
such number of ofﬁ ce bearers as may be speci ﬁ ed by the 
rules made under section 8.
(2) (a) The Executive Committee of the Association that
holds ofﬁ ce on the day immediately preceding the date of 
commencement of this Act, shall function as the Interim 
Committee of the body corporate until the ﬁ rst Committee 
is appointed or elected in the manner provided for by rules 
made under section 8.
(b) The ﬁ  rst Committee of the body corporate shall
be appointed or elected within one year of the date of 
commencement of this Act.
(3) (a) Every ofﬁ ce bearer of the Committee including
the patrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for 
a period of three years and any such of ﬁ ce bearer shall be 
eligible for re-appointment or re-election after lapse of the 
said period of three years.
Body corporate 
to ensure 
no conﬂ ict 
with work of 
Ministry or 
Department 
of the Central 
Government or 
Province
Management 
of the affairs 
of the body 
corporate

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Sri Lanka Optometric Association (Incorporation)
(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from of ﬁ ce of an of ﬁ ce 
bearer, the Committee shall having regard to the rules of the 
Association, elect or appoint a person to ﬁ ll such vacancy.
(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph ( b)
shall hold ofﬁ ce only for the unexpired portion of the term 
of ofﬁ ce of the member whom he succeeds.
7. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do, 
perform and execute all such acts and matters as necessary 
or desirable for the promotion or any one of them, including 
the power -
(a) to purchase, acquire rent, construct, renovate and
otherwise obtain lands or buildings which may
be required for the purpose of the body corporate
and to deal with or dispose of the same as may be
deemed expedient with a view to promoting the
objects of the body corporate;
(b) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations, 
in cash or kind with or without security:
Provided that, the Committee shall obtain 
the prior written approval of the Department of 
External Resources of the Ministry of the Minister 
assigned the subject of Finance, in respect of all 
foreign grants, gifts or donations made to the body 
corporate;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate, 
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate and close accounts in any
banks;
5
15
20
25
30
10
Powers of 
the body 
corporate

<!-- page 6 -->

Sri Lanka Optometric Association (Incorporation) 5
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for
the purposes of the body corporate in such manner
as the Committee may determine;
(e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and
administer any lawful trust or any real or personal
property with a view to promoting the objects of
the body corporate;
(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the
services of ofﬁ  cers and servants of the body
corporate and exercise disciplinary control over
them and to pay them such salaries, allowances
and gratuities as may be determined by the body
corporate; and
(g) to do all other things as are necessary or expedient
for the proper and effective carrying out the objects
of the body corporate.
8. (1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from time
to time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less 
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make 
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any 
other written law, for all or any of the following matters:-
(a)
the classi ﬁ cation of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and fees payable by members;
(b) the election of of ﬁ ce bearers of the Committee or
vacation of or removal from ofﬁ ce of ofﬁ ce bearers
and the powers, duties and functions of the of ﬁ ce
bearers;
(c) the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,
functions and duties of the various of ﬁ cers, agents
and servants of the body corporate;
5
15
20
25
30
10 Rules of 
the body 
corporate

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Sri Lanka Optometric Association (Incorporation)
(d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Committee, or any
sub-committee thereof, notices and agenda of such
meetings, the quorum and the conduct of business
thereat;
(e)
the quali ﬁ cations and disquali ﬁ cations to be a
members of the Committee and the body corporate;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the body corporate; and
(g) the management of the affairs of the body
corporate and the accomplishment of its objects
and dissolution of the body corporate.
(2) The rules made by the body corporate may be
amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting 
and in like manner as a rule made under sub- section (1).
(3) The members of the body corporate shall at all time be
subject to rules of the body corporate.
(4) The rules made under this section shall be published
in the Government Gazette.
9. (1) The Committee shall maintain a register of
members in which name, address and other essential details 
of the members be inscribed. 
(2) The current complete members be bestowed with the
designation of “Chartered Optometrists” and the eligibility 
criteria for the title “Chartered Optometrist” be raised to 
a “Higher National Diploma in Optometry (HNDO)” or 
higher.
5
15
20
25
10
Register of 
members

<!-- page 8 -->

Sri Lanka Optometric Association (Incorporation) 7
10. (1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.
(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,
donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants for an 
account of the body corporate shall be deposited in one or 
more Banks approved by the Committee to the credit of the 
Association.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the 
body corporate in the exercise, performance and discharge 
of its power, duties and functions under the Act.
11. (1) The ﬁ nancial year of the body corporate shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and all 
other transactions of the body corporate.
(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited
by Auditor General or by a quali ﬁ 
ed auditor appointed in 
terms of Article 154 of the Constitution.
(4) For the purpose of this section “quali ﬁ ed auditor”
means -
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any other 
Institute established by law, possesses a certi ﬁ cate
to practice as Accountant issued by the Council of
such Institute; or
(b) a ﬁ rm of Accountants each of the resident partners,
of which being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law possesses a certi ﬁ cate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
5
15
20
25
30
10
Fund of the 
body corporate
Accounts and 
the Auditing

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Sri Lanka Optometric Association (Incorporation)
12. (1) The Committee shall prepare a report of the
activities of the body corporate for each ﬁ nancial year and 
submit such report together with the audited statement of 
accounts to the membership at the Annual General Meeting.
(2) A separate account relating to the foreign and local
moneys received by the body corporate during the ﬁ nancial 
year shall be.
13. All debts and liabilities of the Association existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of 
this Act, shall be paid by the body corporate hereby 
constituted, and all debts due to, and subscriptions and 
contributions payable to the Association on that day shall 
be paid to the body corporate for the purpose of this Act.
14. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the body
corporate shall be able and capable in law, to take and 
hold any property movable or immovable which may 
become vested in it by virtue of any purchase grant, gift, 
testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such property 
shall be held by the body corporate for the purposes of 
this Act, and subject to the rules of the body corporate 
made under section 8, with power to sell, mortgage, 
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
15. The money and property of the body corporate however 
derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the 
objects of the body corporate and no portion thereof shall be 
paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend, 
bonus or proﬁ  t to the members of the body corporate.
16. (1) The seal of the body corporate shall not be                     
afﬁ xed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence 
of two members of the Committee who shall sign their names 
to the instrument in token of their presence and such signing 
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
5
15
20
25
30
10
Annual Report
Debts due 
by and 
payable to the 
Association
Body 
corporate may 
hold property 
movable and 
immovable
Application 
of money and 
property
Seal of the 
Body 
corporate

<!-- page 10 -->

Sri Lanka Optometric Association (Incorporation) 9
(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody
of an ofﬁ ce bearer of the Committee as may be decided by 
such Committee.
17. (1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporate
there remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and 
liabilities, any property whatsoever, such property shall 
not be distributed among the members of the body 
corporate, but shall be given or transferred to any other 
institution having objects similar to those of the body 
corporate, and which is by the rules thereof, prohibited from 
distributing any income or property among its members.
(2) For the purpose of this subsection (1) the appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the 
body corporate immediately before the dissolution at a 
general meeting by the majority of votes of the members.
18. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic or corporate.
19. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil Texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
5
15
10
Property 
remaining on 
dissolution
Saving of the 
Rights of the 
Republic and 
others
Sinhala text 
to prevail 
in case of 
inconsistency

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Sri Lanka Optometric Association (Incorporation)
Printed at the Department of  Government Printing