

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 482
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 480
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"010 – 2017 ud¾;= ui 10 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'03'10
No. 2,010 –  fRiday ,  maRch  10, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 31st march, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 17th  march, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note.–   (i) fisheries and aquatic Resources (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of february 17, 2017. 
 (ii) institute of chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka (incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the 
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of february 17, 2017. 
477-B 81150- 5,403(03/2017)

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
478
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
479
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
480
mINISTR y  Of  INDuSTR y  AND 
COmmERCE
Recruitment for measurement units, Standards 
and Services Director of Department of 
measurement units, Standards and Services 
aS per the instructions of the cabinet, applications are called 
in selecting a suitable person, from the qualified officers of 
Sri Lanka Scientific Services, to fill the existing vacancy, 
for the post of Executive Services Grade i -measurement 
units, Standards and Services director of department of 
measurement units, Standards and Services. applications 
made according to the sample format mentioned at the end 
of this notice, should be sent under registered post to, the 
Secretary of the ministry of industry and commerce, to 
reach the P. o. Box 570, No. 73/1, Galle Road, colombo 
3 address on or before the date of calling for applications, 
with "Recruitment for measurement units, Standards and 
Services director" clearly marked on the top left side of 
the envlope. 
(A) The last date for calling applications .– 30.03.2017.
Note.– complaints with regards to the lost or delay 
of an application or a related letter in the post will 
not be entertained. applicants themselves will 
have to bear the consequences of delaying the 
applications till the last date. 
01. Method of Recruitment. – a  suitable person will be 
selected from the officers with highest marks obtained at a 
Structured interview held by an interview board appointed 
by the cabinet. 
02. Conditions of employment : 
 (A) this position is a permanent and with 
pensionable. contribution payments should 
be made to the Widow and orphans/Widower 
and orphans Pension Scheme. 
 (aa) this appointment is subject to the procedural 
rules of the Public Services commission, 
Establishment code of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Government 
financial Regulations and other departmental 
orders. 
03. Salary Scales.– this post will receive a salary of 
SL-1-2016, Rs. 47,615 -10x1,335 -8x1,630 -17x2,170 
- Rs. 110,895, as per the Public administration circular 
No. 03/2016 and salary is paid from the appointment date 
on establishing on its 20th Salary Scale (Band) as per the 
provisions of Schedule ii of the same circular. 
04. Qualifications : 
 4.1 Educational Qualifications :
 (A) having graduated from a recognized 
university with a Special degree on 
Physical Science ; 
  and
 (AA)  A post graduate qualification from a 
recognized university in one of the fields 
of metrology or measurement Science, 
instrumentation Science, measuring 
of Physical Quantitites, industrial 
automation, applied Electronics, 
Electronic and instrumentation, applied 
metrology or measurement Science, 
applied Physics, advanced optical 
t echnology, Photonics, Sensor Network, 
measurement t echnology, mechatronics.
 4.2 Employment (Service) Qualifications :
 (a) Being a Grade I Officer in the Sri Lanka 
Scientific Services.
 (b) having completed as active and 
Satisfactory Service period within the 
nearest five years (5) on to the date of 
recruitment. 
 (c) have shown a satisfactory level or 
above performance in accordance to 
the approved performance evaluation 
procedure, Seven years (07) prior to the 
date of recruitment. 
05. Physical Qualification.– all applicants should 
consist of adequate Physical and Mental fitness to work in 
any part of Sri Lanka, to perform the duties of post. 
06. Other Qualifications : 
 (A) applicants must be citizens of Sri Lanka, 
 (b) applicants must be with an excellent character, 
 (C) All the qualifications required for the 
recruitment must be fulfilled on the final date 
Posts – v acant

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
481
of calling for applications, which is mentioned 
in the 'applications calling ‘Notice/ Gazettte ’.
07. General Conditions.– Procedural Rules of Public 
Service commission, circulars issued time to time with 
regards to the Government services and Recruitment 
procedure with regards to the executive Grade 1 of the 
cabinet, including the amendment conditions of same, are 
applicable to this post. 
as per the order of the cabinet, 
 
Chinthaka S. Lokuhetti, 
 Secretary, 
 ministry of industry and commerce. 
Galle Road, 
colombo 03,
02nd march, 2017. 
SamPLE aPPLicatioN foRm 
appLiCation form for the poSt meaSurement unitS, 
StandardS and ServiCeS direCtor exeCutive ServiCeS 
grade 1 of the department of meaSurement unitS, 
StandardS and ServiCeS
 No. :–––––––––––.
 (For official use)
1. (a) Name with initials :–––––––––––.
  (in Sinhalese/in tamil)
  Name with initials :–––––––––––.
  (in English capital letters)
 (b) Name in full :–––––––––––.
  (in Sinhalese/in tamil)
  Name in full :–––––––––––.
  (in English capital letters)
2. Permanent address (in Sinhalese/in tamil) :–––––––.
3. Permanent address (in English capital letters) :–––––.
4. t elephone Number :–––––––––––.
5. National identity card Number :–––––––––––.
6. Gender (male/female) :–––––––––––.
7. date of Birth :–––––––––––.
8. marital Status :–––––––––––.
9. currently serving Government ministry/department 
:–––––––––––.
10. Current position and Grade in the Sri Lanka Scientific 
Service :–––––––––––.
11. in a Government ministry or department,
 
 (a) date of first appointment to a post in Sri Lanka 
Scientific Service :–––––––––––.
 (b) date of appointment to a post in Grade 1 in Sri 
Lanka Scientific Service :–––––––––––.
12. Specified Educational Qualifications fulfilled as per the 
Section 04 in the application calling notice :–––––––.
13. Educational Qualifications : 
(a) (i) Valid date of the Physical Science (Special) 
degree :–––––––––––.
  University/institute :–––––––––––.
  External/internal :–––––––––––.
  Subjects Studied :–––––––––––.
 (ii) Postgraduate :–––––––––––.
  Valid date :–––––––––––.
  University/institute :–––––––––––.
(b) other degrees/Postgraduate :–––––––––––.
  Valid date :–––––––––––.
  University/institute :–––––––––––.
Applicants Certification (Declaration) :
i, ....................... state that all information given in here 
are true and correct. i certify that i have not been dismissed 
from Government services or sent on retirement on 
sympathetic alternate due to inefficiency or have not been 
considered as vacated the post. i understand that in case 
any of the contents of this found to be inaccurate or false 
prior to being selected, that i will be subjected to being 
disqualified in appointing to the post, and in case such 
situation is exposed after being selected, that i could be 
dismissed from the job without any form of compensation 
payment. 
  ––––––––––––––––,
  applicants Signature. 
date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
482
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTR y Of NATIONAL  POLICIES AND 
ECONOmIC Aff AIRS
Limited  Competitive Examination for 
Recruitment to the Post of Entrepreneurship 
Development Training Officer-Grade II - in Field/ 
in  Office Category 2-  in the Ministry of National 
Policies and Economic Affairs  -  2016(2017)
aPPLicatioNS are invited from qualified state officers 
of Sri Lanka for the limited competitive Examination 
for Recruitment to the vacant  Posts of  Entrepreneurship 
Development Training Officer-Grade II - in Field/Office 
category 2-  in the ministry of National Policies and 
Economic affairs . 
02. Candidates who have fulfilled their qualifications  will 
be selected for appointment to the posts Entrepreneurship 
Development Training Officer-Grade II, on the basis of 
results of a written test  conducted by the commissioner 
General of  Examinations and the results of a general 
interview conducted by the Secretary to the ministry of 
National Policies and Economic affairs.
03. Number of vacancies is 12.  the Secretary to the 
Ministry has the authority to refrain from filling some or all 
of the vacancies. the effective date of appointment  shall 
be determined by the Secretary to the ministry. 
04. Salary Scale.– as per Schedule i of the Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016 of 25.02.2016,  salary 
scale applicable to this post is Rs.34,605-10x660-11x755- 
15x930 -Rs. 63,460 ( m N 5-2016). you will be remunerated as 
per Schedule ii , in keeping with the provision laid down in the 
said circular. (e.g. a  basic salary of  Rs. 23,874 along with 
an adjustment allowance of  Rs. 6,190 shall be applicable to 
the period from 01.01.2017 to 31.12.2017.)
05. this post is permanent and pensionable. however, 
your appointment will be subject to a probationary period 
of one year. The 1st Efficiency Bar Examination  as laid 
down in the Recruitment Procedure should be passed 
within three years from the date of appointment to the 
Post of Entrepreneurship Development Training Officer-
Grade II. Proficiency in official language shall be achieved  
in accordance with Public administration circular                              
No. 01/2014 and circulars incidental thereto.
06. Qualifications :
 06.1. Educational Qualifications :- 
  Should hold a degree from an University 
accepted by the University Grants 
commission.  Persons awaiting degree results 
are not eligible to apply. 
 06.2. experience:-
         Being a permanent  officer who has completed 
active and satisfactory service of not less 
than  05 years  as an  related officer or in 
Development Officers’ service  and  is in 
possession of knowledge in the  field of small 
enterprises and entrepreneurship. 
 06.3.  Physical Fitness :- all candidates should have  
physical and mental fitness to serve in any 
part of  Sri Lanka and to discharge the duties 
of the  post.
 06.4 Other  Qualifications:- 
 (i) Should be  a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) Should be of an excellent character.
 (iii) Should have completed satisfactory 
service in preceding 05  years.                        
Department Head's/Ministry Secretary's Certification for 
Applicant : 
i certify that mr./mrs./miss .................................
... employed currently at .......................... ministry/
department as ............................. and the information 
provided by him/her is correct, that there is/No ongoing 
disciplinary action/disciplinary action to be started on 
him/her and he/She have shown/Not shown Satisfactory 
Level or above in performance in accordance to the 
approved Performance Evaluation Procedure, for the last 
05 years, and have earned/Not earned the specified 05 
salary increments, have taken/Not taken No-Pay leave 
or half-Pay leave, his/her attendance to work, behavior, 
performance, is Satisfactory/Not Satisfactory, if mr./mrs./
miss..................... is selected to the post he/she can/cannot 
be released from the services, with/without a successor. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Secretary to the ministry/head of the department,
  Signature and Official Seal. 
date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
03–805

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
483
 (iv)    Should have fulfilled all requisite 
qualifications for the post in every  
respect,before the due date stipulated 
in the Notification /Gazette calling for 
applications.
 06.5.  Age Limit: -  Not relevant.
07. 07.1. Mode of  Recruitment :-  Recruitments will be 
made in order of aggregate skills acquired  by 
the applicants who obtain marks not less than 
40% in  each subject in  the written test.”
 07.2. Method of examination :- 
 (i) this examination will be held only in  
colombo.
 (ii) the examination will be held in 
Sinhalese, tamil  and English mediums. 
the language medium indicated shall not 
be allowed to be changed subsequently.
 (iii) the applicant should answer all question 
papers in one and the same language.
 (iv) all candidates should abide by the rules 
laid down by the commissioner General 
of Examinations. if a candidate violates 
any of these rules, he or she shall be 
liable to a punishment imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
 07.3. Subjects of the Examinati on:- the written 
test consists of two question papers.
 
     Subject Duration Maximum 
marks
Pass 
marks
01.comprehension 01 hr.30 
minutes.
100 40%
02.intelligence test 01 hr. 100 40%
 
 07.4. Syllabus :-
  comprehension – Should answer all the 
questions.
 (i) Identification of those who are in 
possession of entrepreneur adroitness  
and direct them to the field of small 
enterprises.
 (ii) Understanding on  small and  intricate 
enterprises. 
 (iii) creat ing  awareness  in management and 
other financial and supporting service 
requirements of the entrepreneurs.  
 (iv) Encouraging the youth in the field 
of entrepreneurship and organizing 
necessary workshops to make attitudinal 
changes and persuasion in them.
 (v) collecting of business -information and 
dissemination them  to those in need.
Intelligence Test:-
the question paper consists of 50 questions in the 
pattern of multiple choice and short answers. all 
questions should be answered. 
this is to assess the candidate’s capacity and 
intelligence through examining his inferences and 
responses with regard to the problems presented 
in literal, numerical and image contexts.
08. 08.1. examination fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 
1,200. this  sum may be paid only  at any  Post 
Office or Sub Post  Office in the Island, to be 
credited to state revenue under Revenue head  
2003-02-13 of the commissioner General of 
Examinations and the receipt obtained in 
applicant’s name  should be securely pasted 
by one fringe of the  receipt in the due  place  
of  the application.  it will be useful for you to 
retain a photocopy of the receipt. the fee paid 
for the examination will not be refunded or 
transferred for any other examination  under 
any circumstances and money  orders or 
stamps will not be accepted.
 08.2. examination Results.– “  the result sheet 
prepared   as per aggregate marks of  the 
applicants who  obtained  qualifications  in 
the written  test as per paragraph  07.3 of this  
notice will be made available to the Secretary  
of  the ministry  of National Policies and  
Economic affairs. Results will be  sent 
individually by post  to all those applicants 
who sat for the written test or  will be  
published in the website www.results.exams.
gov.lk.”
09. applications: application should be prepared using 
a4 papers (cent.mtr.22/29) (normal half-sheet) with:
 (i)  Paragraphs  01-03 on the first page ; and
 (ii)   Paragraphs from o4 onwards running into  the 
next  pages.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
484
 (iii) applications which are not in consistence 
with the specimen application and unperfected   
applications will be rejected  without notice. it 
will be useful to retain with  you a photocopy 
of the application. further, the applicant 
should verify whether the application has  been 
prepared  in consistence with the specimen 
published in the notice of examination. 
otherwise  the application will be rejected. 
When preparing the  application, in the case 
of Sinhalese applications, the name of the 
examination given  on top of  the application  
should be mentioned in English also  in 
addition to Sinhalese and in the case of tamil 
applications, name of the  examination  should 
be mentioned in English also in addition to 
tamil.
 (iv) Relevant details should be clearly  included in 
your own-hand writing.  
10. Perfected applications should be sent under 
registered cover to reach the following address on or before 
11.04.2017. 
commissioner General of Examinations
organizations and foreign Exams division
department of Examinations of Sri Lanka
P.o. Box. 1503
colombo.
a term thus:  Limited Competitive Examination 
for Recruitment to the Post of Entrepreneurship 
Development Training Officer-Grade II -2016(2017) 
should be clearly  endorsed on the top left hand corner of 
the envelope. any application received after this date  will 
not be entertained.
  
11. attestation of the Signature:-  “ applicant’s 
signature should be  atteste d in the application as well 
as in the admission card. an applicant who applies for 
this examination from any institution should  have his 
or her signature attested by the head of department or a 
designated  officer and other applicants should get  their 
signature attested  a Principal  of a Government college/ 
a retired officer, a Grama Niladhari, a Justice of Peace, a 
commissioner of oaths, a Notary Public, a commissioned 
Officer of any of the three armed forces or a permanent 
officer in staff-officer grade in government service or 
provincial state service drawing an annual salary of Rs. 
240,360/- or above, an incumbent or chief priest of a 
Buddhist temple or a person in charge of a place of worship 
or a person holding a notable position among the clergy in 
any  other religious sector.” 
12. the commissioner General of Examinations, on the 
presumption  that only the eligible applicants as per  the 
Gazette Notification may have applied for the examination,  
will issue admission cards to the applicants  who have 
paid  due examination fee on or before the closing date 
and have submitted duly perfected applications along with 
the receipt  for the examination fee. immediately after the 
issuance of admission cards, a press notice to that effect 
will be inserted by the department of Examinations. any 
applicant who does not receive the admission card after  
the lapse of 2 to 3 days of the press notice, should  make 
inquiries  from the organizations and foreign Exams. 
division of the department of Examinations as mentioned 
in the notice giving correct  details pertaining  to the name 
of the Examination applied for, applicant’s full name, 
number of National identity card and  the address.  if the 
applicant  is a  resident out of  colombo, it will be more 
productive if a letter is faxed to the fax-number  given in 
the notice, giving the above mentioned details  along with 
a return fax  number in order to immediately receive a 
copy the admission card by fax. When making  such an 
inquiry, it will be useful to keep in readiness  the copy of  
the  application, copy of  the receipt obtained after paying 
the examination  fee and the receipt  obtained from the post 
office after sending the application by registered post, in  
order to confirm any details which may be requested by the 
department of Examinations.
13. any one of the following documents only should 
be presented to the head of the Examination hall to 
confirm the identity of the applicant:
 (i) Valid National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons.
 (ii) Valid Passport
14. Penalty for furnishing false information:-  applicants 
should take  special care to give correct information when 
filling the application. If a candidate found ineligible 
as per rules and terms  of the  examination, her or  his 
candidature could be cancelled at any stage, prior to the  
examination, during or after the examination or any stage. 
if any information furnished by the applicant is  found false 
during any stage,  he/she can be dismissed  from the Public 
Service. the issuance of an admission card to an applicant 
should not be construed  as an accepta nce that  he/she has 
fulfilled requisite qualifications to sit for the examination. 
all candidates should abide by the  rules and terms 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations  
with regard to the conducting of the examination and the 
issuance of examination results. Violation of such rules 
will make her/him liable to a punishment determined by 
the commissioner General of Examinations.
 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
485
15. any matter not indicated  here shall be decided 
upon by the Secretary to the ministry of National Policies 
and Economic affairs. all applicants should abide  by the 
general examination rules and regulations  stipulated in 
this Gazette.
16. in  the event of any inconsistency  between 
Sinhalese and tamil versions of this Gazette Notification, 
the Sinhalese version shall prevail.
 m. i. m. 
rafeek,
 Secretary,
 ministry of National Policies and 
 Economic affairs.
SpeCimen appLiCation 
Limited Competitive examination for reCruitment to the 
poSt of entrepreneurShip deveLopment training offiCer 
–grade ii, in fieLd / offiCe Category 2 in the miniStry 
of nationaL poLiCieS and eConomiC affairS - 2016 (2017)
    
      (for office use)
Language medium selected for the examination:
Sinhalese    - 2 in letters
tamil          - 3
English       - 4 In figures
*dutie  Selected medium for discharging
Sinhala      -  2 in letters
Tamil         -  3 In figures
01. 1.1 full name (in En glish capitals) :–––––––––––.
  (e.g. hERath mUdiyaNSELaGE SamaN 
KUmaRa GUNaW aRdhaNa) 
 1.2 Surname first and initials later (In English 
capitals)  :–––––––––––.
  (e.g. GUNa W aRdhaNa, h.m.S.K.) 
 1.3 full name (in Sinhalese / tamil  :–––––––––––.
 02.     2.1  address to which the admission card should be 
sent  :–––––––––––.
           (in English capitals) 
 2.2 Permanent address  :–––––––––––.
  (in Sinhalese/ tamil)   
 2.3 Permanent address  :–––––––––––. 
   (in English capitals)        
     2.4 National identity card No. :
 
 2.5  Gender :    male  -  0  
                              female -  1
 2.6  mobile Phone Number :––––––––––.
03.   3.1   Present  post :––––––––––.
 3.2   date of appointment to that post :––––––––––.
 3.3   Service  and  Grade of the present post :––––––.
 3.4   department/institution :––––––––––.
04.   4.1 date of Birth :
    
  y ear :   month : date:
       
      4.2 age as at 11.04.2017:
      y ears :     months :               days : 
     4.3 civil status  : Unmarried :  1
                     married :  2
                 (insert relevant Number in the  cage) 
  05.  Educational Qualifications :
 5.1  G.c.E.(a.L): 
    (i) y ear and month of Exam :––––––––––.
    (ii) index Number :––––––––––.
   (iii)  Results :
Subject Grade  Subject Grade
  
06. details of the degree:
 (i) degree:––––––––––.
 (ii) University :––––––––––.
   
07. Professional Qualifications :
 (i)  ––––––––––.
 (ii)  ––––––––––.
 (iii)  ––––––––––.
08. have you ever been convicted by a court of law ?
       (insert  P mark in the  relevant  cage)
       
           y es                      No
      (if “yes” give details)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
486
09. Examination fees :
 (i) Office where fees paid :––––––––––. 
 (ii) Receipt Number and date :––––––––––.
 (iii) amount paid Rs. :––––––––––.
Paste the receipt securely in this cage
(Retain a photocopy with you)
10. declaration of the applicant :
 (a) i respectfully declare that the particulars 
furnished by me in this  applications are true and 
correct  to the best of my knowledge.  i agree 
to bear the  loss which may occur due to non-
completion and/or incorrect completion of any 
part. further i state  that all  sections of this 
application have been completed.
  (b)  i am aware that in case this statement is proved 
untrue, I will be liable to disqualification before 
being appointed and  dismissal  from service 
after been appointed.
 (c) further, i declare that i will abide by the rules and 
terms imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations with regard to  conducting of the  
examination and issuance of results.
 (d)  i  shall not subsequently change any information 
given above.
  –––––––––––––,
  applicant’s Signature.
date :––––––––––.    
                
11. attestation of the Signature of the applicant:
i, certify  that  mr. / mrs. / miss. ………….... who 
submits this application is personally known to me, that 
he/she placed his/her  signature before me on  ………….., 
that prescribed examinations fees have been duly paid and 
the receipt thereof has been affixed herein.
       
    –––––––––––––, 
   Signature of attesting Officer.
date :–––––––––. 
Full name of the attesting Officer :–––––––––.
designation :–––––––––.
address :–––––––––.
(Place Official Stamp in confirmation)
Certificate by the Head of  Institution
i certify that mr./mrs./miss ……………. who 
submits this application is serving in a  post of 
……………………… in this institution,  that he/she  has 
earned all  his/her increments (other than the increment 
which is a condition of passing service or departmental 
examinations) during the preceding period  of  five years 
before 31.12.2016 , that he/she was not subjected to any 
form of disciplinary punishment for any offence (other than  
admonitions) during the said  period, that he/she possesses 
five year’s  satisfactory service as per Paragraph 06.04 of 
the Gazette  Notification, that he/she is eligible  to sit for 
the examination as per regulations setout in the relevant 
Gazette notification, that specified examination fee has 
been paid and  the receipts is affixed herein and, that he/she 
placed his/her  signature in this application  before me.  i 
agree to release him/her from the present post, in the event 
he/she is selected for this post.
    –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of head of institution.
date :––––––––––. 
   
full  Name :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
(Place Official Stamp in confirmation)
Note.– “attestation should be done by a Principal  
of a Government college/, a Justice of Peace, 
a commissioner of oaths, a Notary Public,                                    
A Commissioned Officer of any of the three armed 
forces or a permanent Officer in staff-officer grade 
in government service drawing an annual salary of 
Rs.240,360  or above. 
03–423/1
––––––––––––––––       
                    
mINISTRy Of NATIONAL POLICIES AND 
ECONOmIC AffAIRS
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to the Post of Entrepreneurship Development 
Training Officer-Grade II - in Field/ in  Office 
Category 2-  in the ministry of National Policies 
and Economic Affairs  -  2016 (2017)
aPPLicatioNS are invited from qualified citizens of 
Sri Lanka for the open competitive Examination for 
Recruitment to the vacant  Posts of Entrepreneurship 
Development Training Officer-Grade II - in Field/Office 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
487
category 02-  in the ministry of National Policies and 
Economic affairs.
02. Candidates who have fulfilled their qualifications 
on the basis of results of a written test  conducted by the 
commissioner General of  Examinations and the results of 
a trade test conducted by the Secretary to the ministry of 
National Policies and Economic affairs, will be selected for 
appointment to the posts Entrepreneurship development 
Training Officer-Grade II. (From among those who have 
passed the written examination and according to the order 
of merits, a number  equivalent to twice the number of  
anticipated appointments will be called for the trade  test.)
03. Number of vacancies is 49.  the Secretary to the 
Ministry has the authority to refrain from filling some or all 
of the vacancies. the effective date of appointment  shall 
be determined by the Secretary to the ministry. 
04. Salary Scale.–  as per Schedule i of the Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016 of 25.02.2016,  
salary scale applicable to this post is Rs.34,605-10x660-
11x755- 15x930 -Rs. 63,460 ( mN 5-2016). y ou will be 
remunerated as per  provision laid down in the said circular 
and as mentioned  in  Schedule ii thereof. (e.g. a  basic 
salary of Rs. 23,874 along with an adjustment allowance 
of Rs. 6,190/- shall be applicable to the period from 
01.01.2017 to 31.12.2017.)
05. this post is permanent and pensionable. the 
appointment will be subject to a probationary period of 
three years. The 1st Efficiency Bar Examination as laid 
down in the Recruitment Procedure should be passed 
within three years from the date of appointment to the Post 
of Entrepreneurship Development Training Officer-Grade 
II. Proficiency in official language shall be achieved by 
you in accordance with Public administration circular No. 
01/2014 and circulars incidental thereto.
06. Qualifications :
 06.1. Educational Qualifications :- 
  candidates should have obtained a four 
year special degree in Entrepreneurship, 
Economics, commerce, management, 
Business administration, Sociology, Statistics, 
information technology, agriculture or 
inclusive of subjects covering the fields of 
Entrepreneurship, management, accountancy 
and Economics, from an University recognized 
by the University Grant commission.  Persons 
awaiting degree -results are  not eligible to 
apply. 
 06.2. Physical Fitness.- all candidates should have  
physical and mental fitness to serve in any part 
of  Sri Lanka and to discharge the duties of the  
post.
 06.3.  Other Qualifications :- 
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) Should be of an excellent character.
 (iii) Should have fulfilled all requisite 
qualifications for the post in every  
respect,  as on the date such qualifications 
are required  to be fulfilled, as stipulated 
in the notification /Gazette calling for 
applications.
07. Age Limit.- Should be not less than 21 years and not 
more than 35 years of age as at the last date of receiving 
applications. (accordingly,  those  with birthdays falling 
on 11.04.1996 or before  and  on 11.04.1982 or after only 
will be eligible to apply)
08. 08.1. Mode of Recruitment :-  Written test will be 
held in June, 2017, only in colombo.
                                   
 08.2. Method of examination :- 
 (i)  the examination will be held in Sinhalese, 
tamil  and English mediums. the language 
medium applied for will  not be allowed to 
be changed subsequently.
 (ii) the applicant should answer all question 
papers in one and the same language.
 (iii) all candidates should abide by the rules 
laid down by the commissioner General 
of Examinati ons. any candidate violating 
these  rules shall be liable to a punishment 
imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations.
 08.3. Subjects of the examination. - the written 
test consists of two question papers.
 
     Subject  Duration Maximum 
marks
Pass 
marks
01.comprehension 01 hr.30 
minutes.
100 40%
02.intelligence test 01 hr. 100 40%
 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
488
 08.4. Syllabus:-
  comprehension – Should answer all the 
questions.
 (i) Apprehension of the importance  of the field 
of  Small Enterprise development in the 
process of National Economic development.
 (ii) Identification of business opportunities 
compatible with National development.
 (iii) Identification of regional resources 
and  national and international market 
opportunities and  accordingly providing 
guidance to the entrepreneurs. 
 (iv) Identification of those who are in possession 
of entrepreneur skills and  direct them 
towards the field of small enterprises. 
 (v) comprehension of small and intricate  
enterprises. 
 (vi) creating awareness among the entrepreneurs 
in management and other financial and 
Supportive Services.
 (vii) Encouraging the youth in the field of 
entrepreneurship and organizing necessary 
workshops to make attitudinal  changes and 
persuasion in them.
 (viii) Preparation of business plans and compilation 
of  Projects required for submission to 
Banking and financial institutions, in 
business activities.
 (ix) collecting business information and 
disseminating them to those in need.
Intelligence Test:-
the question paper consists of 50 questions in the 
pattern of multiple choice and short answers. all 
questions should be answered. 
this is to assess the candidate’s capacity and 
intelligence through examining his inferences and 
responses with regard to the problems presented 
in literal, numerical and image contexts.
 08.5. Trade Test:-
  in the order of merits from among those who 
passed the written examination, a number  
equal to twice the number of  anticipated 
appointments will be called for the trade  test. 
Qualifications will be examined at the Trade 
test itself and the system of awarding marks 
is as follows:    
  Marks
Presentation skills  -  30
Literacy test in information technology - 20
                     total  - 50
09. (i) examination Fee:-  Examination fee is Rs. 1,200/-
. This may be paid in  cash only at any  Post Office or Sub 
Post  Office in the Island, to be credited to state revenue 
under Revenue head  2003-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examinations and the receipt obtained in 
applicant’s name  should be securely pasted by a fringe 
in the due  place  of  the application.  (it will be useful for 
you to retain a photocopy of the receipt.) money orders  or 
stamps will not  be accepted as examination fees and the fee 
paid for the examination will not be refunded or transferred 
for any other examination  under any circumstances.   
(ii) The applicants who obtain qualifications in  the 
written test as per paragraph 08.3 of this notice will be 
referred to a trade test as per paragraph 08.5 and final results 
sheet  will be subsequently issued on the basis of total 
marks obtained in both these tests. On receipt of the  final 
result sheet by the Secretary  to  the ministry  of National 
Policies and  Economic affairs, results will be  sent by post  
to all those applicants who sat for the written test or  will be  
published in the website www.results.exams.gov.lk.  
10.  Applications:-  application should be prepared 
using a4 papers(cent.mtr.22/29)(normal half-sheet) with:
 (i) Paragraphs  01-03 on the first page ; and
 (ii) Paragraphs from 04 onwards running into  the 
next pages.
 (iii) applications which are not in consistence 
with the specimen application and unperfected   
applications will be rejected    without notice. it  
will be useful to retain with  you a    photocopy 
of the application. further, the applicant should 
verify whether the application has  been prepared  
in consistence with the specimen published  
in the notice of examination. otherwise  the 
application will be rejected. When preparing 
the application, in the case of Sinhalese 
applications, the name of the examination given  
on top of  the applica tion  should be mentioned 
in English also  in addition to Sinhalese and 
in the case of tamil applications, name of the  
examination  should be mentioned in English 
also in addition to tamil.
 (iv) Relevant details should be clearly  included in 
your own-hand writing.  

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
489
11. Perfected applications should be sent under 
registered cover to reach the following address on or before 
11.04.2017. the term:  Open Competitive Examination 
for Recruitment to the Post of Entrepreneurship 
Development Training Officer-Grade II  -2016(2017) 
should be clearly  mentioned on the top left hand corner of 
the envelope. any application received after this date  will 
not be entertained.
commissioner General of Examinations,
organizations and foreign Exams division,
department of Examinations of Sri Lanka,
Po Box. 1503,
colombo.
12. attestation of the signature: applicant’s signature 
should be  attested in the application as well as in the 
admission card. an applicant who applies for this 
examination from any institution should  have his or 
her signature attested by the head of department or a 
designated  officer and other applicants should get  their 
signature attested by  a Principal  of a Government 
College/ a retired officer, a Grama Niladhari, a Justice of 
Peace, a commissioner of oaths,  an attorney-at-law, a 
Notary Public, a Commissioned Officer of any of the three 
armed forces or a permanent officer in staff-officer grade 
in government service or provincial state service drawing 
an annual salary of Rs. 240,360/- or above, an incumbent 
or chief priest of a Buddhist temple or a person in charge 
of a place of worship or a person holding a respectable 
position among the clergy in any  other religious sector. 
the admission card with the attested signature should be 
presented to the head of the Examination hall on the day 
you are sitting for the examination.  
13. the commissioner General of Examinations, on the 
presumption  that only the eligible applicants as per  the 
Gazette Notification may have applied for the examination,  
will issue admission cards to the applicants  who  have 
submitted  duly perfected applications, on or before the 
closing date, along with the receipt  for the examination 
fee. immediately after the issuance of admission cards, a 
press notice to that effect will be inserted by the department 
of Examinations. any applicant who does not receive the 
admission card after  the lapse of 2 to 3 days of the press 
notice, should  make inquiries  from the organizations 
and foreign Exams division of the department of 
Examinations giving correct  details pertaining  to the 
name of the Examination applied for, applicant’s full name, 
number of National identity card and  the address.  if the 
applicant  is a  resident out of  colombo, it will be more 
productive if a letter is faxed to the fax-number  given in 
the notice, giving the above mentioned details  along with 
a return fax  number in order to immediately receive a 
copy the admission card by fax. When making  such an 
inquiry, it will be useful to keep in readiness  the copy of  
the  application, copy of  the receipt obtained after paying 
the examination  fee and the receipt  obtained from the post 
office after sending the application by registered post, in 
order to confirm any details which may be requested  by 
the department of Examinations.
14. one of the following documents should be presented 
to the Head of the Examination Hall to confirm the identity 
of the applicant:
 (i) Valid National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons,
 (ii) Valid Passport.
15. Penalty for furnishing false information:-  applicants 
should take  special care to give correct information when 
filling the application. If a candidate found ineligible as per 
rules and terms  of the  examination, her or  his candidature 
could be cancelled at any stage, prior to the  examination, 
during or after the examination. if any information 
furnished by the applicant is  found false during any stage,  
he/she is liable for dismissal  from the Public Service. 
Every applicant  shall be issued with an admission card  by 
the commissioner General of Examinations General of Sri 
Lanka. the issuance of an admission card to an applicant 
should not be construed  as an acceptance that  he/she has 
fulfilled requisite qualifications to sit for the examination. 
all candidates should abide by the  rules and terms imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations General of 
Sri Lanka regard to the conducting of the examination and 
the issuance of examination results. Violation of such rules 
will make her/him liable to a punishment determined by 
the commissioner General of Examinations.
 
16. any matter not indicated  here shall be decided 
upon by the Secretary to the ministry of National Policies 
and Economic affairs. all applicants should abide  by the 
general examination rules and regulations  stipulated in 
this Gazette.
17. in  the event of any inconsistency  between 
Sinhalese and tamil versions of this Gazette Notification, 
the Sinhalese version shall pre vail.
 m. i. m. 
rafeek,
 Secretary,
 ministry of National Policies and 
 Economic affairs.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
490
SpeCimen appLiCation 
open Competitive  examination  for reCruitment to the 
poSt of entrepreneurShip deveLopment  training offiCer 
–grade ii, in fieLd / offiCe Category  2 in the miniStry  of 
nationaL poLiCieS and eConomiC affairS - 2016 (2017)
    
      (for office use)
Language media selected for the examination:
Sinhalese    - 2 in letters
tamil          - 3
English       - 4 In figures
*Language selected for discharging duties :
Sinhala      -  2 in letters
Tamil         -  3 In figures
01. 1.1 full name (in English capitals) :–––––––––––.
  (e.g. hERath mUdiyaNSELaGE SamaN 
KUmaRa GUNaWaRdhaNa) 
 1.2 Name with surname first and initials (In English 
capitals)  :–––––––––––.
  (e.g. GUNa WaRdhaNa, h.m.S.K.) 
 1.3 full name (in Sinhalese / tamil  :–––––––––––.
     1.4 National identity card No. :
 
 1.5  Gender :    male  -  0  
                              female -  1
  (insert relevant Number in the  cage) 
 02.    2.1 Permanent address  :–––––––––––. 
   (in English capitals)        
  2.2  Permanent address  :–––––––––––.
  (in Sinhalese/ tamil)   
     2.3 address to which admission cards should be 
sent :–––––––––––. 
  (in English capitals)
 2.4  mobile Phone Number :––––––––––.
03.   3.1   district applicant permanently residing in :               
––––––––––.
 3.2   divisional Secretariat division :––––––––––.
 3.3   Residing duration :–––––––––––.
 3.4   Grama Niladhari division :––––––––––.
04.   4.1 date of Birth :
    
  y ear :   month : date:
       
      4.2 age as at 11.04.2017:
      y ears :        months :  days : 
     4.3 civil status  : Unmarried :  1
                     married :  2
                 (insert relevant Number in the  cage) 
  05.  Educational Qualifications :
 5.1  G.c.E.(a.L): 
    (i) year and month of Exam :––––––––––.
    (ii) index Number :––––––––––.
   (iii)  Results :
Subject Grade  Subject Grade
  
06. details of the degree:
 (i) degree:––––––––––.
 (ii) University :––––––––––.
   
07. Professional Qualifications :
 (i)  ––––––––––.
 (ii)  ––––––––––.
 (iii)  ––––––––––.
08. have you ever been convicted by a court of law ?
       (insert  P mark in the  relevant  cage)
       
           yes                      No
    
  (if “yes” give details)
09. Examination fees :
 (i) Office where fees paid :––––––––––. 
 (ii) Receipt Number and date :––––––––––.
 (iii) amount paid Rs. :––––––––––.
Paste the receipt securely in this cage
(Retain a photocopy with you)
10. declaration of the applicant :
 (a) i respectfully declare that the particulars 
furnished by me in this  applications are true 
and correct  to the best of my knowledge.  i 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
491
agree to bear the  loss which may occur due to                       
non-completion and/or incorrect completion of 
any part. further i state  that all  sections of this 
application have been completed.
  (b)  i am aware that in case this statement is proved 
untrue, I will be liable to disqualification before 
being appointed and  dismissal  from service 
after been appointed.
 (c) further, i declare that i will abide by the rules and 
terms imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations with regard to  conducting of the  
examination and issuance of results.
 (d)  i  shall not subsequently change any information 
given above.
  –––––––––––––,
  applicant’s signature.
date :––––––––––.    
                
11. attestation of the signature of the applicant:
i certify  that  mr. / mrs. / miss………………… ……
who submits this application is personally known to 
me, that he/she placed his/her  signature before me on  
………….., that prescribed examinations fees have been 
duly paid and the receipt thereof has been affixed herein.
       
   –––––––––––––,
   Signature of attesting officer.
date :–––––––––. 
Full name of the attesting officer :–––––––––.
designation :–––––––––.
address :–––––––––.
(Place official stamp in confirmation)
Note.– “attestation should be done by a Principal  of 
a Government College/ a retired officer, a Grama 
Niladhari, a Justice of Peace, a commissioner 
of oaths, an attorney-at-Law, a Notary Public, a 
Commissioned Officer of any of the three armed 
forces or a permanent officer in staff-officer grade 
in Government service or Provincial State Service 
drawing an annual salary of. Rs.240,360/- or above, 
an incumbent or chief priest of a Buddhist temple or 
a person in charge of a place of worship or a person 
holding a respectable position among the clergy in 
any  other religious sector. 
03–423/2
mINISTRy Of mAhAWELI 
DEvELOPmENT AND ENvIRONmENT
forest Department
oPEN comPEtitiVE EXamiNatioN foR 
REcRUitmENt to thE PoSt of 
foRESt fiELd aSSiStaNt – 2016 (2017)
aPPLicatioNS are invited from qualified citizens of 
Sri Lanka for the recruitment to the Post of forest field 
assistant in the forest department to the date 31.03.2017
01. Salary Scale :
 (i)  PL-2 - 2016 according to Public administration 
circular No. 3/2016 - Rs.25,250 -10x270, 10x300, 
10x330, 12x350- Rs. 38,450.
02. General Terms of engagement and Service 
Conditions:
 (i) this post is permanent & pensionable. Should 
make contributions to the Widow /Widower and 
orphan’s Pension Scheme.
 (ii) the appointment will be subjected to a probation 
period of three years.
 (iii) Planning and implementation of a suitable 
programme for the protection of all the forests 
that belong to forest field assistant division 
with the help of the Beat Forest Officer under 
the supervision of Range Forest Officer, be alert 
on the forest crimes, arresting offenders and 
assisting relevant legal activities are the duties 
of the forest field assistants.
 (iv) the selected applicants will have to assist 
Senior Officers in arduous and risky duties such 
as protection of forests, investigation of forest 
crimes, arresting criminals and forest products 
and producing them to the courts. often these 
officers will have to engage in these activities 
personally even on public holidays and at night. 
Because of the above mentioned arduous and 
risky duties of the forest field assistants, it will 
be practically difficult to women to engage in 
those activities.
 (v) General condition of service pertaining to the 
appointments in Public Service mentioned in 
the paragraph (2) of the Gazette Notification are 
applicable.
 (vi) the examination will be held in Sinhala, 
tamil and English media. No candidate will 
be allowed to change the medium of language 
indicated in the application.  

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
492
03. Age Limit – applicants should not be less than 18 years and not more than 45 years of age on the closing date 
of applications.
04. Educational and other Qualifications.– All applicants should have completed below mentioned qualifications 
satisfactorily:
 (i) Should pass the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination in six (06) subjects with 
at least two credit passes in not more than two sitting,
 (ii) The applicants shall possess at least Level -2 of National V ocational Qualification as relevant to the post 
and as decided by the tertiary and V ocational Education commission,
 (iii) the height of the male applicant should not be less than 05 feet 02 inches and the chest should not be 
less than 32 inches,
 (iv) minimum h eight of the female applicant should be of 05 feet. 
 (v) The applicant should possess physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of the Island. 
 (vi) applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka and should possess sound character. 
05. Method of Recruitment : – 
 (i) Minimum marks that has to be scored for each subject at the written exam by the applicants qualified 
under above paragraph 02 is 40%. twice the number of applicants as the number to be recruited will 
summon for the structured interview based on the descending order of those marks. Recruitment will 
be made to available 105 vacancies based on the descending order of the total marks obtained from the 
written test and at the structured interview. Results will be notified to each and every applicant by the 
commissioner General of Examinations personally by post or through the web site www.results.exams.
gov.lk 
 (ii) When there are several applicants that have scored same marks for the last vacancy as mentioned in 
above paragraph 5.1, only the applicants who have scored marks higher than that marks will be recruited.
 (iii) The applicants  selected based on the qualifications mentioned under above 5.1, should sit and pass the 
Dendrology Test (Preliminary Level) within a period of 03 years and will be confirmed in the post at the 
end of a satisfactory service of three (3) years.  
06. Syllabus.– the written competitive examination consists of two question papers:
 (i) the applicants should sit for both of these question papers in one medium of language. they should 
score at least 40% of the marks for each paper in-order to pass the written test. 
Subject No. :
01 intelligence 
test
duration –01 hour, marks- 100
this question paper consists of 50 multiple choice and short answer questions in-
order to assess the logical ability, analytical competence and decision making ability 
of the applicant. (all the questions should be answered ) 
02 technical test duration   - 2 hours, marks - 100 
Knowledge on forest Resources and its effects on organisms, Ecology of Sri Lanka, 
Geographical importance, agricultural Economy of Sri Lanka, importance facts 
regarding ministry of mahaweli development and Environment, forest department 
and its mission and objectives, Knowledge on Natural Environment, forests and 
vegetation, importance on the close relationship between forests and people, basic 
knowledge on geography (shape and geographical features of the earth) and general 
knowledge of the applicants will be assessed. (all the questions should be answered)  

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
493
07. Applications and ot her Information :
 (i) the applications should be in conformity 
with the specimen application appended at the 
end of this notice. it should be prepared on 
papers sized 21 x 29 cm. (a4 size) using both 
sides by the applicants and Nos. 1-8 in the 
specimen application should be included in 
page 01 and the rest in page 02. the application 
should be completed by the applicant in own 
handwriting and in the medium of language 
in which the candidate is eligible to sit for the 
examination. the applications should be sent 
under the registered cover to the commissioner 
General of Examinations, organizational & 
foreign Examinations Branch, department 
of Examination, P.o. Box 1503, colombo, to 
reach on or before 31.03.2017. “Recruitment 
to the post of forest field assistants (open) – 
2016” should be clearly indicated on the top 
left hand corner of the envelope (applications 
should not be sent to any personal name or to 
any other address). Retaining a photocopy of the 
completed application will be useful. 
 (ii) incomplete and delayed applications will be 
rejected without prior notice.
 (iii) No complaints regarding lost of applications in 
the post will be entertained.
 (iv) the signature of the applicant should be attested 
in the application as well as in the admission. 
an applicant applying through the institution 
should get his signature attested by the head 
of the institution or any officer authorized by 
him. other applicants should get their signatures 
attested by a Principal of a Government School/ 
Retired Officer, Grama Niladhari of the Division, 
Justice of Peace, Sworn commissioner, Lawyer, 
Public Notary, Commissioned Officer in the 
Army, Navy, Air Force or an Officer holding 
a staff grade permanent post in Public Service 
or Provincial Public Service receiving annual 
consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360/= or above, 
the chief incumbent of a Buddhist temple, a 
clergy in charge of other religious place or a 
recognized clergy. 
 (v) the applications which are not in conformity 
with this notice will be rejected. 
 (vi) applicants who are already in Government 
service should forward their applications through 
their hea d of the institution/ department.
 (vii) Receipt of the application will not be 
acknowledged.
08. examination Fees :
 (i) Examination fee is Rs.600. the receipt 
obtained on payment of this fee before 
31.03.2017 to any  Post Office or Sub post 
Office under the Revenue Head No. 2003-
02-13 of the commissioner General of 
Examinations should be pasted in the relevant 
place given in the application (Retaining a 
photocopy of the receipt with the applicant 
will be useful).
 (ii) the fee is not refundable and not transferable 
to any other examination.
09. the applicant must produce any one or all the 
documents given below when required :
 (i) Birth Certificate;
 (ii) Educational Certificates;
 (iii) A certificate obtained from Grama Niladari 
recently (With the countersign of the divisional 
Secretary)
 (iv) Two character certificates;
 (v) Other relevant certificates;
Note.– Documents /certificates or photocopies of 
them should not be sent along with the application.
10.  The examination centers and Admission cards :
 (i) the examination will be held at the 
examinations centers in towns mentioned in 
Schedule 1 of this notice. the town where the 
candidate wishes to sit for the examinations 
and its number should be mentioned as 
first and second choice at the Head of the 
application.
  When there are no sufficient applicants to 
hold the examination in a particular town, 
those applicants will be directed to the town 
mentioned as their second choice or to another 
closer town. further, when there are no 
sufficient applicants to hold the examination 
in all proposed towns or majority, the 
commissioner General of Examinations will 
take necessary actions to hold the examination 
in colombo.
 (ii) admission cards will be issued by the 
commissioner General of Examinations to 
the candidates who are within the age limit 
mentioned in the notice and  have sent duly 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
494
perfected application forms on or before the 
closing date 31.03.2017 along with the receipt 
obtained after paying examination fee. a notice 
in this regard will be published in newspaper 
by the department of Examination, as soon 
as the admission cards were issued. if the 
candidate has not received the admission card 
even after 02 or 03 days of the publication of 
the notice, he / she should inquire from the 
organizational and foreign Examination 
Branch of the department of Examination. 
during these inquiries the applicant should 
mention the name of the examination applied, 
full name, National identity card number and 
address accurately. it may be more effective 
to submit a fax number if any, along with 
the other information to obtain a copy of the 
admission card if you are outside colombo. it 
will be benefitted if you can produce a copy of 
the application, a copy of the receipt obtained 
after paying examination fee and the receipt 
obtained after sending the application by 
registered post during inquiries.
 (iii) the issue of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that he or she 
has the requisite qualifications to sit for the 
examination and the admission card in which 
his /  her signature has been duly attested 
should be submitted to the head of the 
Examination centre on the very first day.
 (iv) the candidates are subjected to the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations regarding the conduct 
of the examination and issue of results. those 
who violate such rules and regulations will be 
subjected to any punishment determined by 
the commissioner General of Examinations.
11. Identity of the candidate. – a candidate must prove 
identity to the    satisfaction of the invigilator and only one 
of the following documents will be accepted:
 (i) National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons,
 (ii) a  valid passport.
12. Punishment for Furnishing False Information.– 
if a candidate is found to be ineligible, prior to or after 
the selection, his candidature or selection is liable to be 
cancelled at any stage. if any of the particulars furnished 
by a candidate who is in public service, is found to be false 
with his knowledge or if he has willfully suppressed any 
important fact, he will be liable to dismissal from Public 
Service. 
13. actions will be taken as per the decisions of the 
conservator General of forests with regards to the matters 
that have not been mentioned in this notice.
14. if there is any inconsistency among Sinhala, tamil 
and English texts of this notice then Sinhala text shall be 
accepted.
 S. a. 
anura SathuruSinghe, 
 conservator General of forests.
forest department,
Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla.
    
modeL appLiCation
open Competitive examination for reCruitment to the 
poSt of foreSt fieLd aSSiStant– 2016 (2017)
town in which it is expected to sit for the examination.
Town No. of the Town
1st  choice
2nd  choice
(complete as per Schedule -1)
01.  medium of Exam ination   
 Sinhala    - 2
 t amil  - 3
 English - 4
 (Write the relevant number in the cage)  
02.   (i) Name with initials indicating initials at the end
        :–––––––––––. 
    (in block capitals)
    (eg.: GUNaW aRdhaNa m. G. B. S. K.)
   (ii) full name (in  block capitals) :–––––––––––.  
  (iii) full name (in Sinhala /t amil)  :–––––––––––. 
03   (i) address to which admission card to be posted 
        :–––––––––––. 
     (in block capitals)
   (ii) Permanent address (in Sinhala / tamil) :–––––. 
04.  Gender                
     (Write the relevant number in the cage)
 male   - 0 
 female   - 1 
05. National identity card No. :

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
495
11. Professional / Other Qualifications :––––––––––.
12. (i) The Post Office / sub post office to which the 
examination fee was paid  :––––––––––.
   (ii) Number of the cash receipt and date  :––––––––.
Please affix the cash receipt here
13.   (i)  have  you ever been convicted for any offence by a 
              court of Law? y es / No :––––––––––.
       (ii)  if y es ,give details :––––––––––.
14. if you are already employed, give particulars
 (i) institute  :––––––––––.                   
 (ii) Date of first  appointment   :––––––––––.  
 (iii) designation  :––––––––––.
       (iv) Salary  :––––––––––.
15.  Names and address of two non-related referees :
  (a) --------------------------------
  (b) --------------------------------
16. declaration of the applicant:
i hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in 
this application are true and correct.  i am aware that if any 
particulars given in the application are  found to be incorrect 
prior to my selection, I am liable to be disqualified and if 
it is found after the selection, i am liable to be dismissed 
without any compensation. further i hereby declare that i 
will be subjected to the rules and regulations imposed by 
the commissioner General of Examination for conducting 
Examinations and issue of results.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
  (Should place the signature before the attestor)
date :––––––––––. 
       
17. attestment of the applicant’s signature:
i do hereby certify that applicant mr./mrs./miss. 
.......................... is known to me personally and he / she 
placed his / her  signature before me on ...................... 2017.
   –––––––––––––––––,   
   Signature of the attestor.
Name of the attestor :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
(Place the rubber stamp)
06.    (i) date of Birth :-   
    y ear : month : date :
   (ii) age at 31.03.2017 :
          y ears :   months :   days :
07.  citizenship :           
 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
 By descent     -   1
 By Registration -   2
08. telephone number :
09. Physical fitness : 
 (i) height :––––––––––.
(ii) chest :––––––––––. inches 
  (this is not relevant to the female applicants)
10. Educational Qualifications :
 (i)  General Certificate of  Education(Ordinary Level)
  1st attempt     
y ear :––––––––––. index No. :––––––––––. 
Subject Grade
  2nd attempt     
y ear :––––––––––. index No. :––––––––––. 
Subject Grade
     (ii) Other Educational Qualifications :––––––––––.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
496
18.  if the applicant is in Public / Provincial Public Service, 
the relevant head of   the institution should complete 
the following :
i hereby certify that the applicant mr./ ms .......................  
is serving  in this Ministry/Department/Office as a 
.............................. holding a permanent/ temporary post 
and the particulars furnished by him / her are true and 
correct. he / She can be released / cannot be released from 
the present post if he / she is selected for the above post.
 ––––––––––––––––,
    Signature of the head of the department 
 or an Officer Authorized by him.
 
Name :–––––––––.
designation :–––––––––.
(place the rubber stamp )
date :–––––––––.
(No document or a copy of it should be annexed other 
than the receipt obtained after paying examination fee)
SCheDuLe  - 1
town and the number of the town in which Examination 
centers are to be established.
 Town Number of the Town
 colombo 01 
 Gampaha 02 
 Kalutara 03
 Kandy 04
 matale 05
 NuwaraEliya 06
 Galle   07
 matara 08
 hambantota  09
 Jaffna 10
 mannar 11
 Vavuniya 12
 mulative 13
 Kilinochchi 14 
 Batticaloa 15
 ampara 16
 t rincomalee 17
 Kurunegala 18 
 Puttalam 19
 anuradhapura 20
 Polonnaruwa 21
 Badulla 22
 monaragala 23
 Ratnapura 24
 Kegalle 25
03–328
mINISTRy  Of  mAhAWELI  
DEvELOPmENT  AND  ENvIRONmENT
forest Department
oPEN  comPEtitiVE  EXamiNatioN  foR 
REcRUitmENt  to  thE  PoSt  of  BEat  foRESt 
officER  2016 (2017)
aPPLicatioNS are invited from Sri Lankan applicants 
who possess qualifications for the open competitive 
examination to be held for the selection of qualified persons 
in order to appoint to the vacant posts of Beat Forest Officer 
in the forest department to the date 31.03.2017.
01. Salary Scale. – mN 1 - 2016 according to Public 
administration circular 03/2016.
Rs.27,140 – 10x300 - 11x350 – 10x495 – 10x660 –               
Rs. 45,540
02. General terms of Engagement and Service 
conditions :
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable. Should 
make contributions to the widow/widower and 
orphan’s Pension Scheme.
 (ii) the appointment will be subjected to a probation 
period of three years.
 (iii) Places of Service of the Beat Forest Officers are 
located in arduous forested areas. the selected 
candidates will have to be alert on the forest 
crimes, arrest the offenders and assist in legal 
activities and should prepare to serve in any part 
of the island.
 (iv) General conditions of service pertaining to the 
appointments in the Public Service mentioned in 
the paragraph (2) of the Gazette Notification are 
applicable.
 (v) the examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil 
and English media. No candidate will be allowed 
to change the medium of language indicated in 
the applica tion.
03. Age Limit.– applicants should not be less than 18 
years and not be more than 30 years of age on 31.03.2017 
the closing date of applications.
 4.1.  Educational qualifications. – all applicants 
should have completed following educational 
qualifications satisfactorily.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
497
 (i) Should pass the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) in Six Subjects with Credit passes to 
four subjects including Sinhala or tamil or English language, mathematics and Science in one sitting.
 (ii) Should pass at least one subject from the General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level).  (Except 
common t est).
4.2   Professional Qualifications  :
 (i) Professional Qualifications obtained in the field are considered as special qualifications.
4.3   Physical Qualifications :
 (i) minimum height for male applicants should be 05 feet 02 inches and chest 32 inches.
 (ii) minimum height for female applicants should be 05 feet.
 (iii) All applicants should possess physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of the island and to 
perform his/her duties in the post.
4.4   Other qualifications  :
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) applicants should possess a sound character.
 (iii) Qualifications required for the recruitment to the post should be completed in each and every manner 
to the date mentioned in the notification / Gazette inviting applications.
05. Method of Recruitment :
 (i) Based on the marks obtained by the applicants at the written examination, twice the number of applicants 
as the number of approved vacancies will be summoned for the structured interview from the highest 
scorers of the written competitive examination. accordingly, the applicants who have scored highest 
total marks will be recruited in the descending order based on the number of vacancies.
 (ii) the applicant should sit for both these question papers in one medium of language. the written 
examination consists of two question papers. the applicants shall have to score minimum of 40% 
marks for each paper to pass the written examination.
intelligence test duration – 01 hour
marks - 100
this Written Question paper consists of 50 multiple choice Questions and short answer questions in 
order to assess logical ability, analytical competence and decision making ability of the applicant.
(all the questions should be answered)
technical duration – 02 hours
marks - 100
consists of semi structured and structured questions.
•	Knowledge on the affect of climate and weather on forest resources and fauna in it.
•	Environmental conditions, geographical importance and natural disasters of Sri Lanka.
•	Knowledge on traditional and modern agricultural economy of Sri Lanka. 
•	important facts about the ministry of Environment and forest department and their mission and 
objectives.
•	Knowledge on natural Environment, Forests and flora.
•	Knowledge on natural Environment, forests and flora.
•	Knowledge on the importance of close relationship between forests and people. 
•	Basic knowledge on geography (shape of the earth, local and zonal geographical features and 
location, general knowledge) 

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
498
06. Applications and other information  :
 (i) the applications should be in conformity with 
the specimen application appended at the end 
of this notice. it should be prepared on papers 
sized 21x29 cm (a4 size) using both sides by 
the applicant and nos 1 – 8 in the specimen 
application should be included in page 01 and 
the rest in page 02. the application should 
be completed by the applicant in own hand 
writing and in the medium of language in 
which the candidate is eligible to sit for the 
examination. “Recruitment to the post of Beat 
Forest Officer (open) – 2016 (2017)” should 
be clearly indicated on the top left hand corner 
of the envelope. the application should be sent 
under the registered cover to the commissioner 
General of Examination, organizational and 
foreign Examination Branch, department of 
Examination, P.o. Box. 1503, colombo, to reach 
on or before 31.03.2017 (applications should 
not be sent to any personal name or to any other 
address).
 (ii) incomplete or delayed applications will be 
rejected without prior notice.
 (iii) No complaints regarding lost of applications in 
the post will be entertained.
 (iv) applicants who are already in government 
service should forward their applications through 
their head of the institution/ department and 
it has to be mentioned that if the applicant is 
selected he/she can be released from the present 
post.
 (v) the applications which are not conformity with 
this notice will be rejected.
 (vi) Receipt of the application will not be 
acknowledged.
07. examination fees  :
 (i) Examination fee is Rs. 600. the receipt obtained 
on payment of this fee to any post office or sub 
post office under the revenue Head 2003-02-13 
of the commissioner General of Examinations 
should be pasted in the relevant place in the 
application. Examination fee has to be paid before 
31.03.2017. (Retainin g a photocopy of the receipt 
with the applicant will be useful.)
 (ii) the examination fee is not refundable and not 
transferable to any other examination.
08. the applicant shall produce any one or all the 
documents mentioned below when required :
 (i) Birth certificate.
 (ii) Educational certificates.
 (iii) A certificate obtained from Grama Niladari 
recently (with the countersign of the 
divisional Secretary).
 (iv) Two character certificates. 
 (v) Other relevant certificates.
Note : Documents / Certificates or photocopies of 
them should not be sent along with the application.
09. examination centers and admission Cards :
 (i) the examination will be held at the examination 
centers in towns mentioned in schedule 1 of this 
notice. the town where the candidate wishes to 
sit for the examination and its number should be 
mentioned as first and second choice at the Head 
of the application.
  When there are no sufficient applicants to hold 
the examination in a particular town, those 
applicants will be directed to the town mentioned 
as their second choice or to another closer town. 
Further, when there are no sufficient applicants 
to hold the examination in all proposed towns 
or majority, the commissioner General of 
Examination will take necessary actions to hold 
the examination in colombo.
 (ii) admission card will be issued by the 
commissioner General of Examination to 
the candidates who are within the age limit 
mentioned in the notice and  have sent duly 
perfected application forms on or before the 
closing date 31.03.2017 along with the receipt 
obtained after paying examination fee. a notice 
in this regard will be published in news paper 
by the department of Examination, as soon 
as the admission cards were issued. if the 
candidate has not received the admission card 
at even after 02 or 03 days of the publication 
of the notice he / she should inquire from the 
organizational and foreign Examination Branch 
of the department of Examination. during these 
inquiries the applicant should mention the name 
of the examination applied, full name, National 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
499
identity card number and address accurately. it 
may be more effective to submit a fax number if 
any, along with the other information to obtain 
a copy of the admission card if you are outside 
Colombo. It will be benefitted if you can produce 
a copy of the application, a copy of the receipt 
obtained after paying examination fee and the 
receipt obtained after sending the application by 
registered post during inquiries.
 (iii) the issue of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that he or she 
has the requisite qualifications to sit for the 
examination and the admission card in which 
his/ her signature has been duly attested should 
be submitted to the head of Examination centre 
on the very first day.
 (iv) the candidates are subjected to the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examination regarding the conduct 
of the examination and issue of results. these 
who violate such rules and regulations will be 
subjected to any punishment determined by the 
commissioner General of Examination.
 (v) the candidates who have scored marks not less 
than 40% for each subject will be summoned for 
the structured interview in the descending order. 
twice the number of candidates as the number 
of available vacancies will be summoned for 
the interview. the results sheet prepared based 
on the total marks obtained at the written 
examination and structured interview arranged 
in the descending order will be handed over 
to the conservator General of forests. Results 
will be notified to each and every applicant 
personally or can get from the web site www.
results.exams.gov.lk   
10. Identity of the candidate .– a candidate must prove 
identity to the    satisfaction of the invigilator and only one 
of the following documents will be accepted:
 (i) National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of persons.
 
 (ii) a  valid passport.
11. the signature of the applicant should be attested in 
the application as well as in the admission. an applicant 
applying through the institution should get his signature 
attested by the Head of the institution or any officer 
authorized by him. other applicants should get their 
signatures attested by a Principal of a Government School/ 
Retired Officer, Grama Niladhari of the Division, Justice 
of Peace, Sworn commissioner, Lawyer, Public Notary, 
Commissioned Officer in the Army, Navy, Air force or 
an Officer holding a staff grade permanent post in Public 
Service or Provincial Public Service receiving annual 
consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360/= or above, the chief 
incumbent of a Buddhist temple, a clergy in charge of other 
religious place or a recognized clergy. 
12. action will be taken as per the decisions of the 
conservator General of forests with regards to the matters 
that have not been mentioned in this notice. 
13. if there is any inconsistency among Sinhala, English 
and tamil texts of this notice then Sinhala text shall be 
accepted.
 S. a. 
anura SathuruSinghe, 
 conservator General of forests.
forest department,
Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla.
    
modeL appLiCation
written Competitive examination for reCruitment to the 
poSt of beat foreSt offiCer (open) – 2016 (2017)
town in which it is expected to sit for the examination.
Town No. of the Town
1st choice
2nd choice
(complete as per Schedule -1)
01.  medium of Exam ination :  
 Sinhala    - 2
 t amil  - 3
 English - 4
 (Write the relevant number in the cage)  
02.   (i) Name with initials indicating initials at the end
        :–––––––––––. 
    (in block capitals)
    (eg: GUNa W aRdhaNa.m.G.B.S.K.)
   (ii) full name (in  block capitals) :–––––––––––.  
  (iii) full name (in Sinhala /t amil)  :–––––––––––. 

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
500
03   (i) address to which admission card to be posted 
        :–––––––––––. 
     (in block capitals)
   (ii) Permanent address (in Sinhala / tamil) :–––––. 
04.  Gender :                
     (Write the relevant number in the cage)
 male   - 0 
 female   - 1 
05. National identity card No. :
  
06.    (i) date of Birth :-
   
    y ear month date
   (ii) age at 31.03.2017 :
          y ears   months   days
07.  citizenship :           
 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
 By descent     -   1
 By Registration -   2
08. telephone number :
09. Physical fitness : 
 (i) height :––––––––––.
(ii) chest :––––––––––. inches 
  (this is not relevant to the female applicants)
10. Educational Qualifications :
 (i)  General Certificate of  Education(Ordinary Level)
  1st attempt     
y ear :––––––––––. index No. :––––––––––. 
Subject Grade
  2nd attempt     
y ear :––––––––––. index No. :––––––––––. 
Subject Grade
 (ii)  General Certificate of  Education(Advanced Level)
  1st attempt     
y ear :––––––––––. index No. :––––––––––. 
Subject Grade
  2nd attempt     
y ear :––––––––––. index No. :––––––––––. 
Subject Grade
   (ii) Other Educational Qualifications :––––––––––.
11. Professional / Other Qualifications :––––––––––.
12. (i) The Post Office / sub post office to which the 
examination fee was paid  :––––––––––.
   (ii) Number of the cash receipt and date  :––––––––.
Please affix the cash receipt here
13.   (i)  have  you ever been convicted for any offence by a 
              court of Law? y es / No :––––––––––.
       (ii)  if y es ,give details :––––––––––.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.03.2017
501
14. if you are already employed, give particulars :
 (i) institute  :––––––––––.                   
 (ii) Date of first  appointment   :––––––––––.  
 (iii) designation  :––––––––––.
       (iv) Salary  :––––––––––.
15.  Names and address of two non-related referees :
  (a) --------------------------------
  (b) --------------------------------
16. Declaration of the applicant :
i hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in 
this application are true and correct.  i am aware that if any 
particulars given in the application are  found to be incorrect 
prior to my selection, I am liable to be disqualified and if 
it is found after the selection, i am liable to be dismissed 
without any compensation. further i hereby declare that i 
will be subjected to the rules and regulations imposed by 
the commissioner General of Examination for conducting 
Examination and issue of results.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
  (Should place the signature before the attestor)
date :––––––––––. 
17. Attestment of the applicant’ s signature :
i do hereby certify that applicant mr. /mrs./ miss 
.......................... is known to me personally and he / she 
placed his / her  signature before me on ...................... 2017.
   –––––––––––––––––,   
   Signature of the attestor.
Name of the attestor :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
(Place the rubber stamp)
18.  if the applicant is in Public / Provincial Public Service, 
the relevant head of   the institution should complete 
the following :
i hereby certify that the applicant mr./ ms .......................  
is serving  in this Ministry / Department/Office as a 
.............................. holding a permanent/ temporary post 
and the particulars furnished by him / her are true and 
correct. he / She can be released / cannot be released from 
the present post if he / she is selected for the above post.
 ––––––––––––––––,
    Signature of the head of the department 
 or an Officer Authorized by him.
 
Name :------------------
designation:--------------
( place the rubber stamp )
date:------------------
(No document or a copy of it should be annexed other 
than the receipt obtained after paying examination fee)
SCheDuLe  - 1
town and the number of the towns in which Examination 
centers are to be established.
 Town Number of the Town
 colombo 01 
 Gampaha 02 
 Kalutara 03
 Kandy 04
 matale 05
 Nuwara Eliya 06
 Galle   07
 matara 08
 hambantota  09
 Jaffna 10
 mannar 11
 Vavuniya 12
 mulaitive 13
 Kilinochchi 14 
 Batticaloa 15
 ampara 16
 t rincomalee 17
 Kurunegala 18 
 Puttalam 19
 anuradhapura 20
 Polonnaruwa 21
 Badulla 22
 monaragala 23
 Ratnapura 24
 Kegalle 25
03–327
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.