

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2326$16 - 2023 wfm%a,aa ui 03 jeks i`ÿod - 2023'04'03
No. 2326/16  -  moNday,   april  03,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- pG 6284 - 456 (04/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
l. d. B. 6/2017
CIvIL  AvIATION  ACT, No. 14  Of  2010
reGulatioNs made by the minister of ports, shipping and aviation under section 117(2)(p) of the Civil aviation act, 
No. 14 of 2010 read with sections 6, 10, 11, 26, 31, (d),(e), (f),(g) and (h) of that act.
 Nimal Siripala De Silv a,
 minister of ports, shipping and aviation.
Colombo,
30th march, 2023.
Regulations
 1. these regulations may be cited as Civil aviation aeronautical service provider (air Navigation and aviation 
security) licensing regulations No. 01 of 2023.
 2. (1) No person shall provide any aeronautical service relating to air navigation referred to in paragraphs (a) 
to (d) of regulation 3, within the territory of sri lanka and the oceanic  airspace delegated to sri lanka 
by international Civil aviation organization under the regional air Navigation agreements without 
a valid aeronautical service provider (air Navigation) licence issued by the director-General of Civil 
aviation (hereinafter referred to as the “director-General”) in respect of the relevant service referred to in          
regulation 3.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'04'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.04.2023
2a
   (2) No person shall provide the aeronautical service referred to in paragraph (e) of regulation 3, within the limits 
of an aerodrome or at any other place or location where aeronautical services are established without a valid 
aeronautical service provider (aviation security) licence issued by the director-General.
 3. every service provider who intends to provide aeronautical services in –
	 	 (a)	 Air	 Traffic	Services;
	 	 (b)	 Aeronautical	Information	Services;
	 	 (c)	 Aeronautical		Communication	Services	;
	 	 (d)	 Aeronautical	 Aids	for	Communication,	Navigation	or	Surveillance;	and
  (e) a viation security service,
shall	apply	to	the	Director	General	in	the	form	specified	in	the	First	Schedule	hereto,	along	with	any	particulars	as	may	be	
required to obtain a licence.
 4. every service provider who applies for any licence referred to in regulation 3 shall -
	 	 (a)	 be	a	Service	Provider	duly	appointed	by	the	Minister	for	the	provision	of	proposed	service;
	 	 (b)	 have	 the	required	financial	resources	to	fulfill	both	actual	and	potential	obligations	in	the	provision	of	the	
intended	services;
	 	 (c)	 possess	 a	Certificate	of	Competency	for	provision	of	the	respective	aeronautical	service	relating	to	air	
navigation	or	aviation	security	having	satisfied	the	appropriate	organization,	personnel,	equipment,	written	
procedures, facilities and services as is determined by the director General in the implementing standards 
specified	in	Second	Schedule	hereto;
	 	 (d)	 not	have	been	convicted	for	breach	of	any	aviation	safety	or	security	requirements;	and
  (e) have a valid liability insurance adequately covering his liability that may arise out of the activities performed 
under the licence.
 5. a  service provider who intends to obtain licence for two or more categories shall make separate applications for 
each licensing category.
 6. (1) the director-General shall subject an applicant for licence to separate assessments in respect of each 
aeronautical service that the applicant intends to provide. Competency of such applicant to provide the 
relevant aeronautical service relating to air navigation or aviation security in accordance with the applicable 
standards, recommended practices and industry best practices shall be evaluated by such assessments.
	 	 (2)	 The	 Director-General	may	issue	separate	Aeronautical	Service	Provider	Competency	Certificates	for	each	
licensing category, in respect of which required assessment has been completed satisfactorily.
  (3) an applicant for a licence referred to in regulation 2 shall hold a valid aeronautical service provider 
Competency	Certificate	to	qualify	for	issuance	of	an	Aeronautical	Service	Provider	Licence.
	 	 (4)	 Aeronautical	 Service	Provider	Competency	Certificate	shall	be	valid	for	a	period	of	two	years	from	the	date	
of	issue	and	subject	to	such	terms	and	conditions	as	may	be	specified	in	such	certificate.
	 	 (5)	 Subject	 to	compliance	with	the	continued	adherence	to	initial	conditions	of	certification,	the	validity	period	
of	an	Aeronautical	Service	Provider	Competency	Certificate	may	be	renewed	for	a	period	of	two	years	at	a	
time.
  (6) the fees for the initial issue, renewal and	 amendmend	of	a	certificate	shall	be	as	specified	in	the	Civil	
Aviation	Authority	Fees	and	Charges	Regulation	No.	01	of	2014	published	in	the	Gazette Extraordinary              
No.	1869/32	dated	02nd	July	2014	(hereinafter	referred	to	as	the	“	Fees	and	Charges	Regulation”).

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'04'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.04.2023
3a
	 	 (7)	 Requirements	 to	be	satisfied	for	the	issuance	of	each	category	of	Aeronautical	Service	Provider	Competency	
Certificate	shall	be	as	specified	in	the	Second	Schedule	hereto.
 7. the director General may within a period of one hundred and twenty days of the receipt of such an application and 
on	being	satisfied	with	the	information	provided	therein	and	suitability	and	capacity	of	the	applicant	to	comply	with	
the	applicable	requirements	specified	in	the	relevant	Implementing	Standards	may	–
  (a) issue to such service provider a licence for the relevant category upon the payment of an initial fee as 
specified	in	the	fees	and	Charges	Regulation;	or
  (b) refuse to issue a licence with reasons assigned.
 8. every such licence so issued shall-
	 	 (a)	 be	valid	from	the	date	of	issuance	until	or	unless	suspended	or	revoked	as	specified	in	Regulation	9;
	 	 (b)	 be	in	the	format	specified	in	the	Fourth	Schedule	hereto;
	 	 (c)	 be	subject	to	such	terms	and	conditions	specified	in	the	 Third	Schedule	hereto;
  (d) be subject to an annual fee.
	 9.	 	 (1)	 The	Director-General	may	in	addition	to	the	grounds	as	specified	in	section	26	of	the	Civil	Aviation	Act,	No.	
14 of 2010 suspend or revoke an aeronautical service provider licence, on the following grounds:-
	 (a)	 breach	of	any	terms	and	conditions	to	which	the	Licence	was	subjected	to;
	 (b)	 inadequacy	in	the	maintainance	of	specified	standards	with	regard	to	the	safety,	security,	efficiency	or	
regularity of the respective aeronautical service or services required for the validity of competency 
certificate	as	specified	by	the	Director-General	in	the	Implementing	Standards	reffered	to	in	the	Second	
Schedule	hereto;
	 (c)	 expiry	of	the	period	of	validity	of	the	Certificate	of	Competency	issued	for	the	provision	of	respective	
Aeronautical	Service;
  (2) prior to the suspension or revocation of a licence, the director General shall give written notice to the 
licence and provide him within a reasonable period of time to show cause in writing as to why the licence 
should not be suspended or revoked. the director-General shall take into account the reasons sent by the 
licensee prior to making a decision about any suspension or revocation.
  (3) Notwithstanding subparagraph (2), the director-General may suspend a license if safety of services being 
provided under such license appears to have been seriously compromised.
  (4) the holder of an aeronautical service provider licence that is suspended or revoked shall forthwith produce 
it to the director-General for appropriate endorsement.
  (5) the holder of an aeronautical service provider licence whose licence is revoked shall forthwith return all 
assets and properties that the Civil aviation authority of sri lanka has made available to the licensee, to the 
authority.
 10. in the event a licensee intends terminating provision of the assigned services under the licence issued to him on his 
own accord, the licensee shall give a written notice of at least one hundred and eighty days prior to the intended 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'04'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.04.2023
4a
date of termination and surrender the licence to the director General and all properties and assets issued to the 
licensee should be returned to the authority from the date of surrender of the licence or earlier to that date.
 11. Notwithstanding anything contrary to the foregoing regulations, the validity of an aeronautical service provider 
licence issued under regulation 7 shall cease with immediate effect-
  (a) if a change has been made in respect of the following without notifying the director-General and obtaining 
his approval in writing:-
	 (i)	 change	of	ownership	of	the	Licensee;
	 (ii)	 change	of	business	name	of	the	Licensee;
	 (iii)	 change	of	Memorandum	and	Articles	of	Association	of	the	Licensee;
 (iv) substantial change of equipment, facilities, procedures or services used for the provision of aeronautical 
services;
	 (v)	 change	of	the	Accountable	Manager	of	the	Licensee;	and
	 (vi)	 change	of	nominated	post	holders	of	the	Licensee;
	 	 (b)	 if	 maintenance	of	standards	with	regard	to	the	safety,	security,	efficiency	or	regularity	of	the	respective	
aeronautical	services	required	for	the	validity	of	competency	certificate,	are	inadequate.
	 12.	 For	the	purposes	of	this	Regulation	–
“Accountable	Manager”	means	a	designated	person	who	is	directly	responsible	and	finally	accountable	to	
the director-General for the provision of aeronautical services, in conformity with the requirements 
specified	in	the	respective	Implementing	Standards;
“aeronautical services” means the services referred to under section 31 of the Civil aviation act, No. 14 of 
2010;
“Certificate	of	Competency”	means	a	certificate	issued	by	the	Director-General	attesting	that	the	holder	is	
competent	to	perform	the	tasks	assigned	to	him	with	the	required	capability	proficiency,	Capacity	and	
persistence	for	purpose	of	providing	aeronautical	services	as	specified	in	the	Operations	Specifications;
“director-General” means the director General of Civil aviation appointed under section 11 of the Civil aviation 
Authority	of	Sri	Lanka	Act,	No.	34	of	2002;
“Operations	Specifications”	means	the	document	which	specifies	the	nature	and	scope	of	the	activities	of	the	
service	provider	and	mode	and	manner	of	operations;
“post holder” means an individual who is responsible to the accountable manager in assuring compliance to 
Implementing	Standards	in	the	provision	of	aeronautical	services	by	a	service	provider;
“service provider” means a service provider appointed under section 6 of the Civil aviation act, No. 14 of 
2010;
“territory of sri lanka” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 124 of the Civil aviation act, 
No. 14 of 2010.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'04'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.04.2023
5a
FIRST	SCHEDULE
Aeronautical Service Provider Licence - Application form
Note - an applicant who intends to obtain licence for two or more categories shall make separate applications for each 
licensing category.
A. Type of the Aeronautical Service [please () tick only one]
(a) 	Air	Traffic	Services;
(b) 	Aeronautical	Information	Services;
(c) 	Aeronautical	Communication	Services;
(d) 	Aeronautical	Aids	for	Communication,	Navigation	or	Surveillance;
(e) 	Aviation	Security	Service;
B. Details of the Applicant
1.
 Name of the
 organization
2.
address of the 
principle place of 
Business
3.  telephone
5.  e-mail
 
C. details of the appointment as an aeronautical service provider
1.   order reference:
2. Gazette published date:
D. Details of the Accountable Manager
1.  Name: (mr./ms.)
2.  designation/title:
3.  telephone:
5.  e-mail:
4. 
4. 
Fax
Fax

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'04'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.04.2023
6a
E.	Details	of	the	nominated	Post	Holder
1.  Name: (mr./ms.)
2.  designation / title:
3.  telephone: 4. 	Fax:
5.  e-mail:
F.	Details	of	documents	to	be	submitted
The	Applicant	must	submit	a	Cover	Letter	with	Certified	True	copies	of	following	documents	along	with	this	applica-
tion to Civil aviation authority for evaluation at least one hundred and twenty (120) days before the commencement of 
operations, [please tick () for submitted documents]
#  documents yes No
01 minister order published in the Gazette
02  Details	of	Financial	Resources	to	fulfill	both	actual	and	potential	obligations	in	the	provision	 	 	
of the intended services
03 details of a valid liability insurance adequately covering the applicant’s liability that may arise 
out of the activities performed under the licence
04 Curriculum Vitae of the accountable manager with relevant supporting documents
05 Curriculum	Vitae	of	the	nominated	Post	Holder	with	relevant	supporting	documents
06 if the applicant has been convicted for breach of any aviation safety or security requirements, 
those details with supporting documents
07 Payment	Receipt	for	Initial	fee	for	Processing	as	per	Fees	&	Charges	Levied	by	CAASL
G. declaration
i hereby apply for the aeronautical service provider licence to provide aeronautical service referred in the section a, 
on	behalf	of	the	applicant	specified	in	the	section	B	of	this	application	and	certify	that	the	information	given	in	this	appli-
cation and the supporting documents are true and correct.
 Name: (mr./ms.)
 designation/title:
 telephone: 	Fax:
 e-mail:
 signature:  date:
 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'04'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.04.2023
7a
 SECOND	SCHEDULE
Requirements to be satisfied to obtain an Aeronautical Service Provider Competency Certificate relating
to air navigation or aviation security
Requirements for the grant of Aeronautical Service Provider Competency Certificate in respect of Air Traffic 
Services which may be cited as Air Traffic Services Provider Competency Certificate
an applicant, in addition to conforming to the general requirements contained in these regulations shall comply with the 
requirements	specified	in	the	Implementing	Standards	related	to	Air	Traffic	Services	issued	by	the	Director	General	from	
time to time in pursuant to section 120 of the Civil aviation act, No. 14 of 2010.
Requirements for the grant of Aeronautical Service Provider Competency Certificate in respect of Aeronautical 
Information Services which may be cited as Aeronautical Information Services Provider Competency Certificate
an applicant, in addition to conforming to the general requirements contained in these regulations shall comply with the 
requirements	specified	in	the	Implementing	Standards	related	to	Aeronautical	Information	Services	issued	by	the	Director	
General from time to time in pursuant to section 120 of the Civil aviation act, No. 14 of 2010.
Requirements for the grant of Aeronautical Service Provider Competency Certificate in respect of Aeronautical 
Communication Services which may be cited as Aeronautical Communication Services Provider Competency 
Certificate
an applicant, in addition to conforming to the general requirements contained in these regulations shall comply with the 
relevant	requirements	specified	in	the	Implementing	Standards	related	to	Aeronautical	Communication	Services	issued	by	
director- General from time to time in pursuant to section 120 of the Civil aviation act, No. 14 of 2010.
Requirements for the grant of Aeronautical Service Provider Competency Certificate in respect of Aeronautical 
Aids for Communication, Navigation and Surveillance which may be cited as Aeronautical Aids for Communication, 
Navigation and Surveillance Provider Competency Certificate
an applicant, in addition to conforming to the general requirements contained in these regulations shall comply with the 
relevant	requirements	specified	in	the	Implementing	Standards	related	to	Aeronautical	Aids	for	Communication,	Navigation	
and surveillance issued by director-General from time to time in pursuant to section 120 of the Civil aviation act, No. 14 
of 2010.
Requirements for the grant of Aeronautical Service Provider Competency Certificate in respect of Aviation Security 
Services which may be cited as Aviation Security Service  Provider Competency Certificate
an applicant, in addition to conforming to the general requirements contained in these regulations shall comply with the 
relevant	requirements	specified	in	the	Implementing	Standards	related	to	Aviation	Security	Service	issued	by	the	Director-
General in  time to time pursuant to section 120 of the Civil aviation act, No. 14 of 2010.
THIRD	SCHEDULE
(A) Terms and Conditions
 1. every licensee shall employ, contract or otherwise engage a person to be known as an accountable manager, who 
shall be accountable and answerable to the director-General for the provision of services in respect of which such 
license has been issued.
 2. (1) every licensee shall provide for the use and guidance of personnel employed by the licensee an operations 
manual or security programme, as applicable, which shall contain complete instructions as to the provision 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'04'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.04.2023
8a
of the relevant aeronautical services, including the responsibilities of the personnel employed and, the 
contents thereof shall be subject to the approval of the director General.
  (2) every licensee shall in accordance with the provisions in the approved operations manual or security 
programme, as applicable, provide initial and recurrent training to the relevant persons employed by the 
licensee for the effective discharge of the assigned duties and functions and records of such training shall be 
maintained properly.
  (3) the licensee shall make required revisions of the operations manual or security programme, as applicable, 
at any time as the director General directs.
  (4) the licensee may amend or revise the operations manual or security programme, as applicable, as is 
necessary subject to approval of the director General, to ensure that the information contained therein is kept 
up to date and accurate and, the approved operational manual or security programme, as applicable, shall be 
made available for operational personnel, for reference, engaged in the provision of the relevant aeronautical 
service and any other personnel as the director General may specify.
	 	 (5)	 Unless	 it	is	proven	that	the	deviation	from	the	instructions	specified	in	the	approved	Operations	Manual	or	
security programme, as applicable, provides enhanced level of aviation safety and security, every person 
employed by a  licensee shall comply fully with all instructions relating to his duties contained in the 
operations manual or security programme. as applicable,
 3. the licensee may, for provision of services authorized under the respective license, designate any person as a 
nominated	Post	Holder	who	shall-
 (a) be responsible for the effective discharge of the duties and functions assigned to him ensuring the 
obligations	cast	on	the	Licensee	under	these	regulations;
 (b) in respect of the duties relating to the nominated post, be responsible to the director General, in addition 
of	being	responsible	to	Licensee;
 (c) complete satisfactorily the initial and recurrent training, given by the licensee in accordance with the 
respective training manual or security programme, as applicable, so as to enable himself to discharge 
the assigned duties and functions effectively.
 4. every licensee, where applicable, and with the concurrence and guidance of the director General, shall maintain 
close liaison with the state military organizations in the provision of services authorized under the licence.
 5. every licensee shall in the planning, designing and implementation of the authorized services align himself 
appropriately with the sri lanka air Navigation plan, National Civil aviation security programme, National 
aeronautical search and rescue plan and National aviation safety plan, as applicable.
 6. a  licensee, where required, shall establish and maintain an effective safety management system which is 
acceptable to the director General in compliance with the applicable requirements.
 7. every licensee shall, if directed by the director General, have an effective Contingency plan acceptable to the 
director General that will adequately address any potential contingency or emergency situations arising out of the 
services authorized under the licence.
 8. a  licensee shall, if directed by the director General, have an approved scheme for limitation of duty times 
and rest periods of the employees engaged in the provision of safety and security sensitive functions aiming at 
providing	adequate	safeguards	against	onset	of	fatigue	taking	into	account	of	Human	Factor.	The	Licensee	shall	
take into account, such limitations in the determination of cadre requirements of the licensee in relation to such 
duties.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'04'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.04.2023
9a
 9. (1) a  licensee shall, as directed by the director General, have an approved policy for prohibiting problematic 
use of psychoactive substance by personnel employed by him.
  (2) No person employed by the licensee shall violate such policy.
(B) Privileges
	 1.	 Privileges	 granted	to	a	Licensee	shall	be	as	specified	by	the	Director	General	in	the	relevant	Aeronautical	Service	
provider licence.
 2. No licensee shall exceed the privileges granted in the licence in the performance of duties and functions.
(C) Special Terms and Conditions
An	Aeronautical	Service	Provider	Licence	shall	contain,	where	necessary,	Special	Terms	and	Conditions	specified	by	the	
directer-General to the licensee, to be adhered by such licensee in the provision of relevant aeronautical service.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'04'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.04.2023
10a
01
01
director General of Civil aviation
Civil aviation authority of sri lanka
* air Navigation or aviation security (as applicable)

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'04'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.04.2023
11a
eoG 04 - 0041
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.