

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 800
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 792
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"964 – 2016 wfm%a,a ui 22 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'04'22
No. 1,964 –  FRIDAY ,  APRIL  22, 2016
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 13th May, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 29th  April, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 W. A. A. G. FonsekA,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
789
Note.– Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 14, 2016.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
790
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are rele ased for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
791
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should perso nally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
792
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’S   DEP ARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths 
 
ANURADHAPURA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places 
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development 
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District 
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 23rd May, 2016.
 E. M. Gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
30th March, 2016.
Schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Anuradhapura Horowpothana Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional
   Kandyan) of Hurulu Palatha Division  Registrar General, District  
    and Births and Deaths of Mahapothana    Secretariat, Anuradhapura. 
   North Division
04–768
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’S   DEP ARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages 
 
ANURADHAPURA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Muslim Marriages Registration Divisions and should be entitled to 
properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
793
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places 
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development 
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District 
Registries. 
07. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 23rd May, 2016.
 E. M. Gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
30th March, 2016.
Schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Division and Post for which Address to which
  Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Anuradhapura Horowpothana Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages in District Secretary/Additional
   Kapugollewa Area of Hurulu Palatha   Registrar General, District  
    Division   Secretariat, Anuradhapura. 
04–767
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’S   DEP ARTMENT
Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages 
 
HAMBANTOTA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Muslim Marriages Registration Divisions and should be entitled to 
properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places 
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Div isional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development 
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District 
Registries. 
07. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 23rd May, 2016.
 E. M. Gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
29th March, 2016.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
794
Schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Division and Post for which Address to which
  Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Hambantota Hambantota Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages for District Secretary/Additional
   Bandagiriya Division    Registrar General, District  
       Secretariat, Hambantota. 
    
04–766
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’S   DEP ARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium  
 
TRINCOMALEE  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places 
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development 
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District 
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 23rd May, 2016.
 E. M. Gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
04th April, 2016.
Schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Trincomalee Kuchchavelli Post of Registrar of Marriages (Tamil) of District Secretary/Additional
   Kattukulam North Division  Registrar General, District  
        Secretariat, Trincomalee. 
Trincomalee Kinniya Post of Registrar of Birth and Deaths  District Secretary/Additional
   (Tamil) of Kurunchankerney Division  Registrar General, District  
        Secretariat, Trincomalee. 
04–852

<!-- page 7 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
795
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’S   DEP ARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths   
 
MATARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places 
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development 
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District 
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 23rd May, 2016.
 E. M. Gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
04th April, 2016.
Schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Matara Weligama Post of Registrar of Marriages (General)  District Secretary/Additional
   in Weligam Koralaya Kohonugamuwa  Registrar General, District  
    Area   Secretariat, Matara. 
04–851
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’S   DEP ARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths   
 
PUTTALAM  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
796
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places 
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development 
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District 
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 23rd May, 2016.
 E. M. Gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
Schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Puttalam Mundel Post of Registrar of Marriages (General)  District Secretary/Additional
   in  Puttalampattu Division and Births   Registrar General, District  
    and Deaths of Mundel Division   Secretariat, Puttalam. 
04–850
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’S   DEP ARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages 
 
BADULLA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Muslim Marriages Registration Divisions and should be entitled to 
properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places 
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development 
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District 
Registries. 
07. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 23rd of May, 
2016.
 E. M. Gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
06th April, 2016.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
797
Schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Badulla Lunugala Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages of District Secretary/Additional
   Lunugala Town Division  Registrar General, District  
        Secretariat, Badulla. 
    
04–849
–––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION 
Recruitment on Open Basis the Post of Legal Officer 
of (Grade III of Executive Service Category)
MINISTRY OF WOMEN AND CHILD AFFIARS
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified candidates to fill two 
vacancies in the post of Legal Officer of Grade III of Executive 
Service Category of the Ministry of Women's Affairs. 
01. Method of Recruitment. – Out of the candidates who are 
with the qualifications mentioned in the notice, recruitments will 
be made on the highest marks scored at a Structural Interview 
held by an interview board appointed by the Public Service 
Commission in accordance with the available number of 
vacancies. The structural interview will be held in accordance 
with the approved marking scheme (See Chapter 06) of the Public 
Service Commission. 
02. Required Qualifications : 
 (i) Educational/Professional Qualifications : 
  LLB Degree in a university recognized by the University 
Grants Commission/having made oath as an Attorney-
at-Law of the Supreme Court. 
 (ii) Experience :
  Should have active professional practice of not less than 
three years after having made oath as an Attorney-at-
Law of the Supreme Court. 
 (iii) Physical Qualifications : 
  Every candidate should be physical and mental order to 
serve in any part of the island and to discharge duties 
and functions of the post. 
 (iv) Other Qualifications :
 * Applicants should be a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 * Applicants should have excellent moral character, 
 * Applicants should have fulfilled all required 
qulaifications in every respect by the date stated in 
the notice.
03. Terms of engagement and service condition : 
 (i) This post is permanent, pensionale and the selected 
candidates are liable to contribute to the Widows' and 
Orphans' Pension Scheme/Widowers' and Orphans' 
Pension Scheme. 
 (ii) This appointment is subject to probationary period of 
three years. First Efficiency Bar Examination shall be 
passed within three years from the date of recruitment 
for the post of Legal Officer Grade III.
 (iii) In accordance with Public Administration Circular 
No. 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 all officers appointed 
must achieve other state languages efficiency within 
five years of appointed to state service in addition 
to state language of recruited to public service and 
officers recruited other than an official language must 
achieve due official language proficiency within the 
probation period. 
 (iv) This appointment is subject to the Procedural Rules 
of the Public Service Commission, Establishments 
Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka, Financial Regulations of the Government and 
other Departmental Orders. 
04. Age limit.– Applicants must not be less than twenty one 
(21) years and not more than forty five (45) as at the closing date 
of applications. 
05. Salary Scale. – The monthly salary scale of Rs. 22,935 
-10x645 -8x790 -17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 is entitled to this post (SL 
1-2006 salary group in P. A. C. No. 6/2006 dated 25.04.2006).
06. The following marking scheme is based for the structured 
interview :–
 Subject     Marks
01. Additional Educational Qualifications :   20
 A degree in Law from a recognized university
 – For First Class 20
 – For Second Class (upper) 15
 – For Second Class (lower) 10
 For a First Class in the final year of Law College 15
 For a Second Class the final year of Law College 10
Note : 10 marks should be granted only if the final 
 year examination pass with an honor (Marks will 
 be granted only for maximum qualification either 
 the degree or Law College qualification)
02. Additional Professional Qulaifications :  15
 – Doctorate in Law 15
 – Post Graduate Degree in Law for not less than 10
   one year

<!-- page 10 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
798
 Subject      Marks
 – Post Graduate Diploma in the relevant field for 15
  not less than one year awarded by a recognized
  institute or a post Law Diploma
  (05 marks for one diploma)
 – Diploma course of not less than six months in  15
  relevant field awarded by a recognized institution 
  (03 marks for one Diploma)
 03. Additional Experience  30
  Experience as an Attorney-at-Law in public or 
  private sector
  – More than 06 months and less than one year -
   2 marks
  – Maximum of 30 marks by 5 marks for one 
   year 
  (Except three years service period engaged in as 
  an Attorney-at-Law to obtain basic qulaifications)
 Note.– Additional experience should be confirmed 
  by a certificate obtained by an Attorney-at-Law 
  or President's Counsel or judge who have 
  completed not less than 20 years of service.
 04. Proficiency in English Language  15
  – Degree/Post Graduate Degree/LLB Degree/ 15
   Post LLB Degree in English Medium 
   (All relevant question papers should have 
   been answered in English medium)
  – Diploma in English language in a University 10
   recognized by the University Grants 
   Commission or recognized Government 
   institution (01 year or 1440 hours)
  – Certificate course in English Language obtained 05
   from a recognized university recognized by 
   the University Grants Commission or 
   recognized government institution
   (06 months or 720 hours)
   (Marks will be given for the maximum 
    qualification)
 05. Computer literacy   15
  – For studying Information Technology as a main 15
   subject for degree in a university recognized       
  by University Grants Commission
  – Diploma Course in Information Technology 10
   in a recognized government institution not
   less than 01 year or 1440 hours
  – Certificate Course in Information Technology  
   in a recognized government institution
   06 months/720 hours 07
   03 months/360 hours 05
   (Marks will be given for the maximum 
   qualification)
 06. Marks given for skill at the interview  05
   Total marks  100
07. Identity of the candidates.– Applicants who have fulfilled all 
required qualifications in every respect will only be summoned for 
the structural interview. Original copies and duly certified copies 
should be furnished to the structural interivew. In order to confirm 
the identity at the interview followin identity cards will be accepted : 
 (i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of 
Registration of Persons,
 (ii) Valid Passport. 
08. Forwarding applications : 
 (i) Applications prepared as per the specimen appended 
at the end of this notice must be sent by registered post 
to the Secretary, Ministry of Women's Affairs, 05th 
Floor, Sethsiripaya Stage II, Battaramulla on or before 
06.05.2016 and the late applications will be rejected. 
 (ii) A specimen application is given at the end of this 
notice. Application should be prepared by including 
from 01 to 09 in the first page and from 10 to 13 in 
the second page and the rest is in the other pages and 
it should be filled by the candidate's own legible hand 
writing. Duly certified copies of the certificate should 
be enclosed with the application. Originals and duly 
certified copies of the certificates should be produced 
at the interview. 
 (iii) The text "Recruitment to the Post of Legal Officer of 
the Ministry of Women's Affairs" should be clearly 
written on the top left hand corner of the envelope 
containing the application. 
 (iv) Signature of the candidate should be attested by a 
Principal of a Government School/Justice of the 
Peace/Commissioner of Oaths/Attorney-at-law/Notary 
Public/Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces or 
an officer holding a permanent post in Government is 
not than monthly salary of Rs. 22,935.00.
 (v) Applicants who are already in Public Service or Local 
Government Service should forward their application 
through their Heads of respective Departments. 
 (vi) Applications not comply with the specimen attached 
hereto will be rejected. Any complaint with regard to 
the loss or delay of applications will not be accepted. 
09. Furnishing false information .– If it is found that the 
information furnished by the candidate are false or wrong prior to 
recruitment, his candidature will be cancelled. Any of such false or 
wrong information revealed after the recruitment action will be taken 
to dismiss from the service subject to the relevant cause of action. 
10. The Public Service Commission reserves the right to fill or 
not to fill the vacancies. 
By the order of the Public Service Commission, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Women and Child Affairs. 
Ministry of Women and Child Affairs, 
05th Floor, Sethsiripaya Stage II, 
Battaramulla, 
08th April, 2016. 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
799
Specimen applica tion 
(For office use only)
recruitment for the poSt of legal officer of grade iii of executive 
Service ca tegory miniStry of women and child affairS
01. Name of the Applicant : 
  (i) Name following initials (In English block letters) :–––––.
  (ii) Name in full (in English block letters) :–––––––––. 
  (iii) Name in full (Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
02. Address and Telephone No. : 
  (i) Official Address :–––––––––.
   Telephone No. :–––––––––.
  (ii) Private Address :–––––––––.
   Telephone No. :–––––––––.
   Mobile No. :–––––––––.
03. Date of Birth : 
 Year :–––––––––,  Month :–––––––––,  Date :–––––––––.
04. Age as at the closing date of applications :
 Years :–––––––––,  Months :–––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
05. NIC No. :–––––––––.
06. Sex :–––––––––.
07. Civil status :–––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications : 
  (i) University in which the LLB Degree was obtained :––––.
  (ii) Date of awarded the degree :–––––––––.
  (iii) Medium :–––––––––.
09. Date of made the oath as an Attorney-at-Law of Supreme Court 
:–––––––––.
10. Professional Qualifications :
 Examination/ Year Subject Grade Name of the
 Diploma    Institution/University
11. Details of the experience : 
 Institution Designation Period of Service
12. Proficiency in Computer Literacy :
  (i) Degree :–––––––––.
  (ii) Diploma :–––––––––.
  (iii) Certificate Course :–––––––––.
13. English Language Proficiency : 
  (i) Degree :–––––––––.
  (ii) Diploma :–––––––––.
  (iii) Certificate Course :–––––––––.
14. Have you ever been convicted in a Court of Law for any offence ?
   Yes   No
14. I. If yes, give details :–––––––––.
15. Certificate of the Applicant : 
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished in this application 
are true and correct. I shall not subsequently change any of the 
particulars mentioned here. I am also aware that if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before selection 
the application will be cancelled and if so found after selection I 
am liable to be dismissed without any compensation subject to the 
relevant cause of action. 
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant. 
Date :–––––––––.
16. Attestation of the signature of the applicant : 
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ......................... of 
...................... who submit this application is personally known to me 
and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on ........................ 
2015.
    ––––––––––––,
    Signature of the Officer Attesting. 
Name of the attester :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
17. Certificate of the Head of the Department/Information : 
 (Only for those who are already in the public service)
I hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ....................... is 
serving in this Ministry/Department/Institution as a ......................... 
His/her work and conduct are satisfactory and that he/she has 
not been subject to any disciplinary action and that he/she can be 
released/cannot be released from service if selected for the post. 
    ––––––––––––––,
    Signature of the Head of 
    Department and officla frank.
Date :–––––––––.
04–964 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
800
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
INSTITUTE  OF  TECHNOLOGY  – UNIVERSITY  
OF MORATUWA
Admission to the National Diploma in Technology 
Course 2016/2017
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible candidates for 
admission to the National Diploma in Technology, 3-year fulltime 
Course conducted by the Institute of Technology, University of 
Moratuwa. The Course will be conducted within the University 
premises at Moratuwa until it is moved to new premises of the 
Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa at Diyagama, 
Homagama.
1. General.– The National Diploma in Technology Course 
consists of two years of academic study and one year of Industrial 
Training and is conducted in English medium. The course is 
offered in the following fields of study : 
 (a) Maritime Studies Courses (Set I) :
   (i) Marine Engineering Technology.
   (ii) Nautical Studies and Technology.
 (b) Other Fields of Courses (Set II) :
 (i) Chemical Engineering Technology.
 (ii) Civil Engineering Technology.
 (iii) Electrical Engineering Technology.
 (iv) Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering 
Technology.
 (v) Mechanical Engineering Technology.
 (vi) Polymer Technology.
 (vii) Textile and Clothing Technology.
2. Eligibility : 
 
   2.1  Age : 
 ( a) Applicants should be below 24 years of age on 
31.12.2015.
 ( b) Applicants below 20 years of age on 31.12.2015 
will be given preference for admission to the Marine 
Engineering Technology and Nautical Studies and 
Technology Courses. A special medical test and 
interview would also be conducted for selection of 
students to Marine Engineering and Nautical Studies 
Courses. 
 ( c) Those who are fulltime registered students of 
any University under the UGC (except the Open 
University of Sri Lanka) or Higher Educational 
Institute under the Ministry of Higher Education are 
not eligible to apply. 
2.2 Educational Qualifications : 
Applicants should have obtained passes in any three (03) of 
the following subjects :–
 (i) Physics,
 (ii) Chemistry,
 (iii) Combined Mathematics,
 (iv) Advanced Mathematics.
at one and the same sitting of a G. C. E. (A/L) Examination 
conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations, Sri 
Lanka in 2013 or 2014 or 2015.
3. Selection Criteria : 
 3.1 Admission to the Course : 
  The selection of students for admission will be based 
on the performance at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination and 
the aptitude test to be conducted by the Institute of 
Technology, University of Moratuwa. 
  From those who pass the aptitude test, selections will 
be done in the merit order of G.C.E. (A/L) results, i.e., 
in the order of z-scores. In the selection, 40% merit and 
60% district quota will be applied.
 3.2   Field of Study :
  Aptitude test marks together with the applicant’s order 
of preference for the field of study as indicated in the 
field preference will be considered in the allocation of 
the field of study.
4. Application Procedure :
 4.1  Application Form :
 (i) Application should be made according to 
the Specimen Form given in this Gazette 
Notification. Specimen application will also be 
available in the following Web address.
http://www.mrt.ac.lk/itum
 (ii) Applications should be forwarded under 
Registered Post  marked “ NDT Admission                 
2016/2017” on the top left hand corner of 
the envelope and addressed to the “Deputy 
Registrar, Institute of Technology, University of 
Moratuwa, Katubedda, Moratuwa.
 (iii) Application should reach the Deputy Registrar, 
Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa 
on or before the closing date for applications.
 (iv) A self-addressed 9" x 4" stamped envelope                      
(Rs. 40 worth), should be enclosed along with 
the application form.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
801
 (v) No copies or originals of the certificates 
should be sent along with the application form. 
However, the content of the application has to 
be certified as indicated. (See cages 3 & 5 in the 
form of application.)
 4.2  Field Preference :
 (i) There are two SETS of fields.
 (ii) Applicants may apply to either Maritime Studies 
(SET 1) or Other Fields (SET 2) or Both sets 
of fields. The preference must be indicated if 
candidate applies to both sets of fields.
 (iii) SET 1 - Insert order of preference as 1 for First 
preference and 2 for Second preference. This 
should be completed only by the candidates who 
are applying for Maritime Studies.
 (iv) SET 2 - Insert order of preference as 1,2,3,4,5,6,7 
“1” for the “most preferred”, “2” for the next, 
and so on “7” for the least preferred. 
5.  (i)  Application Fee.– Application fee for SET 1 or SET 2 
is Rs. 300 and SET 1 and SET 2 is Rs. 500. A receipt 
of payment in favour of “ Institute of Technology, 
University of Moratuwa, A/C No. 0000308280 of 
Bank of Ceylon, Katubedda Branch” to the value of 
Rs. 300 (Rupees Three Hundred) for one set of fields 
of study (Rs. 500 if applying for both sets of fields), 
obtained only from any branch of the Bank of Ceylon 
should accompany each application. This application 
fee is non-refundable.
 (ii)  Closing Date.– The closing date of applications is 
20.05.2016.
6. Aptitude Test.– Applicants, short-listed according to the                     
G. C. E. (A./L.) performance in Merit and District Quota will be 
called for an aptitude test that will be conducted at the Institute of 
Technology, University of Moratuwa.
7. Registration :
 (i) Candidates selected for admission will be required to 
produce the originals of the following certificates on 
the date of registration :–
 * G.C.E. (A/L) Certificate,
 * Certificate indicating G. C. E. (A./L.) Z-Score,
 * School Leaving Certificate,
 * Birth Certificate,
 * Affidavit in support of any changes in name 
appearing in different documents/certificates.
8. Very Important :
 (i) A candidate once registered for the National Diploma 
in Technology Course will not be eligible for admission 
to any other cour se in this University or in any other 
University in Sri Lanka (except Open University of 
Sri Lanka) or in any other Higher Educational Institute 
under the Ministry of Higher Education during the 
tenure of the course.
 (ii) A student who has already registered in this university 
or any other u niversity in Sri Lanka (except Open 
University of Sri Lanka) or in any other Higher 
Educational Institute is not be eligible for applying. 
 Director.
 Institute of Technology,
 University of Moratuwa.
 
 APPLICATION  FOR  ADMISSION  TO  THE  NATIONAL  DIPLOMA  IN  For office use only
 TECHNOLOGY  COURSE 
  Application No.
 inStitute of technology univerSity of moratuwa 
  District
 academic year - 2016/2017 
Application for (Please     )
  1. Maritime Fields  - SET 1 
  2. Other Fields - SET 2
   [Applicants may apply for single set (Set 1 or Set 2) or both sets (Set 01 and Set 02)]
1.   Personal Details : (Please use BLOCK CAPITALS)
  Name in Full 
      (Leave one blank cage between names)

<!-- page 14 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
802
  Name with Initials :
      (Leave one blank cage between names)
 Title Mr./Ms.  Sex Male/Female  
 Age (Years)    (Months) Date of Birth Date Month Year
 As at 31st Dec. 2015    
 National ID Number
 2. Contact Details :
  Address (Residence):
      (Leave one blank cage between different segments of the address) 
  Telephone  Mobile
  E-mail (if available)
 3. Results of G. C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination :
 Subjects & Details of Examination Grades & Details obtained at the 
  1st Attempt 2nd Attempt 3rd Attempt
  Ye ar
  Physics
  Chemistry
  Combined Mathematics
  Advanced Mathematics
  Index Number
  Z-Score          .        .                     .  
  Results of the year to be considered for Selection
  (indicate whether 2013 or 2014 or 2015)
 4. Medium :
  Medium in which you wish to sit the Aptitude Test  
      
 5. School(s) attended from Year 11 to Year 13 :
 Year Name &  Address of School District    Period of Attendance      
       From    To
    Year M D Year M D
 11
 12
 13 1st Attempt
    2nd Attempt
     3rd Attempt
 


<!-- page 15 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
803
 6. Certification of Results and Schools attended :
  It is compulsory to certify the results under No. 3 and details under No. 5 in the application by the School Principal for 
the School Candidates, and by a Justice of Peace for External Candidates.
  I certify that the particulars given above by the candidate in the Cage No.3 and No. 5 are true and accurate according to the 
Original Certificates.
  Name of the Principal/Justice of the Peace :
         Rev./Dr./Mr./Mrs. ................................................................
  
  Official Seal
 ...................................... .....................
 Signature Date
 7. Field Preference :
SET 1 - Insert order of preference as 1 for First preference and 2 for Second preference. This should be completed only by the 
candidates who have applied for Maritime Studies.
SET 2 - Insert order of preference as 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. ‘1’ for the “Most Preferred”, ‘2’ for the next and so on ‘7’ for the last 
preferred.
 Set 1 Set 2
 Maritime Fields Order Other Fields Order
 Marine Engineering  Technology Chemical Engineering Technology
 Nautical Studies and Technology Civil Engineering  Technology
  
  Electrical Engineering Technology
 
  Electronic and Telecommunication Engineering    
 State Priority, if applied for both sets –   Technology
  SET 1 Mechanical Engineering Technology
 
  SET 2 Polymer Technology
  
  Textile & Clothing Technology
  Are you registered as a fulltime student in any other University under the UGC (other than Open  Yes No
  University) or any other Higher Educational Institution under the Ministry of Education ? 
  (Delete whatever is inapplicable)
  APPLICANT’S  DECLARATION :
 1. I declare that I am not a fulltime registered student at any University (except Open University of Sri Lanka) or any Higher 
Educational Institution under the Ministry of Education.
 2. I certify that all the particulars given by me in this Application are true and accurate. I am aware that if the particulars given 
by me in this Application are found to be false or inaccurate prior to my admission, I will be discontinued from the course.
 3. In the event of my being selected for admission after the Test, I shall abide by  Statutes, By-Laws, Regulations and the Rules 
of the Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa, in so far as they are applicable to me.
 4. I have pasted the cash deposit/ cash transfer receipt obtained from Bank of Ceylon, drawn in favour of “Institute of Technology, 
University of Moratuwa - Account No. 0000308280 of Bank of Ceylon, Katubadde Branch”.
 5. I also enclose a self addressed stamped envelope (Rs. 40 worth) in size 9" x 4".

<!-- page 16 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
804
 6. I am aware that if I am found to be registered in another University or any other Higher Educational Institution under the 
Ministry of Higher Education at the time of sitting for the Aptitude Test for the National Diploma in Technology Course, I 
will not be selected for the Course.
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
Paste your Cash Deposit/Cash Transfer Original Slip here.
04-902
–––––––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  SKILLS  DEVELOPMENT  AND 
VOCATIONAL  TRAINING 
National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority
INSTITUTE  OF  ENGINEERING  
TECHNOLOGY - KATUNAYAKE  RECRUITMENT  OF  
SPECIAL APPRENTICES  IN  ENGINEERING  FOR  
NATIONAL DIPLOMA  IN  ENGINEERING  SCIENCES  
(NDES) COURSE  2016 BATCH
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka to recruit 
Special Apprentices in Engineering 2016 batch for the above 
course of studies at the Institute of Engineering Technology 
(IET), Katunayake.
1. Educational Qualifications for Entry. – Candidates with 
qualifications mentioned below are eligible to apply :
 1.1.1 A Pass at the GCE (O/L) Examination in 06 subjects 
in one sitting including three (03) credit passes for 
Mathematics, Science and Language (Sinhala/ Tamil/
English) ;
And
 1.1.2 Credit pass for English subject at the GCE (O/L) 
Examination ;
And
 1.2 Passes at the GCE (A/L) in Combined Mathematics, 
Physics & Chemistry in one sitting ;
or
 1.3 Passes at the GCE (A/L) in Combined Mathematics, 
Physics and Information & Communication Technology  
in one sitting.  (It is compulsory to pass the Information 
& Communication Technology as a main subject). 
2.  Age.– Between 18 and 25 years as at 31.12.2016.
3.  Duration & Course Schedule .– This is a four year 
course, where the 18 Month academic instruction Programme 
is sandwiched with the 30 Month Industrial Training as given 
below :
 
Basic Instruction Programme at IET   - 06 Months
Basic Industrial Training in Industry  - 12 Months
General Instruction Programme at IET  - 06 Months
General Industrial Training in Industry  - 12 Months
Specialized Instruction Programme at IET  - 06 Months
Specialized Industrial Training in Industry  - 06 Months
Instruction Programmes consist of theoretical Instructions 
& Laboratory Practicals conducted at Institute of Engineering 
Technology.
Industrial Training Programmes are conducted at recognized 
Industrial Establishments.
                                                  
An English course will be conducted outside the course period 
at the beginning. Participation is compulsory for all selected 
apprentices for the English Course.
4. Courses conducted in the IET are as follows:
 A. Civil Engineering Sector
  1. Civil - Building & Structural Engineering.  
  2. Civil - Highway & Railway Engineering.
  3. Civil - Water & Environmental Engineering.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
805
 B. Electrical Engineering Sector & Communication 
  4. Electrical - Electronics & Communication   
       Engineering.
  5. Electrical - Electrical Power Engineering. 
   C.   Mechanical Engineering Sector 
  6.   Mechanical - Automotive Engineering
  7.   Mechanical - Mechanical General Engineering
  8.   Mechanical - Marine Engineering.
 ( a) “The Quality Management System of Marine 
Engineering Course of IET is in accordance with 
the requirements of ISO 9001 – 2008.
 ( b) In respect of Marine Engineering Course, the 
Institute is engaged in providing academic 
instructions and industrial training Programmes to 
meet the ma ndatory requirements for knowledge, 
understanding and proficiency in Marine 
Engineering at the operational level related with 
STCW 95, including its amendments and model 
course 7.04 of International Maritime Organization 
(IMO) coverage.
5. Medium of Instruction .– All academic programmes are 
conducted in   English. 
6. Contract of Apprenticeship :
 6.1. Each selected candidate is required to enter into a 
contract with the training establishment, which consists, 
mutual obligations on both the training establishment 
and the Apprentice. At the time of registration students 
should deposit a sum of Rs. 5,000, refundable at the 
completion of the course. The deposit of the students, 
who are leaving the programme within two weeks 
from the date of registration will be refunded. 
 6.2 Sumurdhi beneficiaries are exempted from the 
refundable deposit, on submission of original 
Sumurdhi Card with a certified letter from Grama 
Sevaka approved by Divisional Secretary.
 6.3 All selected students will have to make a non 
refundable payment of Rs. 1,500  which is Rs. 500 as a 
registration fee and Rs. 1,000  for library development 
fund. 
 6.4 There is no guarantee of employment at the end of the 
training period.
 6.5 All the students registered for the above courses, 
should maintain a minimum requirement of attendance 
specified by the Institute for each subject during the 
course period. Those who fail to meet this requirement 
are not allowed to sit for the examinations and 
evaluations and they have to leave the course.  
7. Award of Certificates. – National Diploma in Engineering 
Sciences Certificate will be awarded on successful completion of 
all examinations, evaluations and on clearance of all obligations. 
8. Selection Criteria :
 8.1 All applicants who have the minimum entry 
qualifications as stated in para 1 and within the age 
limit mentioned in para 2 above, would be eligible. 
Selections will be done as given below.
 8.2 Those candidates who are eligible will be required 
to sit for a written   aptitude test in English medium.
(Eligible candidates will be informed in advance)
 8.3 Limited number of applicants will be called for an 
interview depending on the merit order of the written 
test.
 8.4 Applicants are finally selected, based on the written 
test marks and the interview marks.
 8.5 Those who are selected for Marine Engineering 
Course will have to appear for a medical test at their 
own expense prior to the registration. 
9. Applications :
 9.1 Certified copies of educational qualifications {GCE  
(O/L) & GCE (A/L)} must be attached with the 
application. Applications without copies of educational 
certificates will be rejected.
 9.2 All applicants should pay a non-refundable 
examination fee of Rs. 500, (Rs. 700 for applications 
downloaded from the IET web site.) as per the details 
of 9.3 to any branch of People’s Bank. 
 9.3 The Pay-In-Slip needs to be duly perfected with the 
following:
 (i) Branch Code and Account No: 276-1-001-8-
6351396.
 (ii) Credit Instruction: To the credit of National 
Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority 
collection account No. 276-1-001-8-6351396. 
at People’ s Bank, Katunayake.
 (iii) Name & the Address of the Applicant.
 9.4 Applications & additional information can be obtained 
from IET web site (www.iet.edu.lk) 
 
 9.5 Application forms could be collected from the 
Registrar, Institute of Engineering Technology, 
Temple Road, Katunayake on payment of Rs.200 in 
cash, or by post by sending a money order for Rs.200 
with a self-addressed stamped envelope (size 9”x4”) 
to “Registrar, Institute of Engineering Technology, 
Temple Road, Katunayake” up to 13th May 2016. 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
806
The above Money Order should be drawn in favour of 
the Accountant, Institute of Engineering Technology, 
payable at Katunayake Post Office.
  ( (011-2252833 / 011-2252834 / 011-2254667)
 9.6 Students, obtaining applications from IET website, 
have to pay Rs. 700 as the examination fee.
 9.7 Duly filled application forms, should be sent under 
registered cover to reach the Director / Principal, 
Institute of Engineering Technology, Temple Road, 
Katunayake along with the Pay-In-Slip duly signed 
by an Authorized Officer of the Bank, on or before 
27th May 2016. “Recruitment of Special Apprentices 
– 2016” should be mentioned in the left hand corner 
of the envelope. Late applications or applications 
forwarded by hand will not be accepted.
 9.8 Those who have followed or are following Diploma 
or Degree level full time courses of studies in a 
Government Technical Institute or University are not 
eligible to apply.
 9.9 Receipt of the applications will not be acknowledged. 
 9.10 Application forms also could be obtained from the 
following offices up to 27th May 2016 on payment of 
Rs.200 in cash.
 (i) National Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority, 
971, Sri Jayewardenepura Mawatha, Welikada, 
Rajagiriya. ( (011-2888782-7)
 (ii) Industrial Engineering Training Institute, 581, Galle 
Road, Katubedda,  Moratuwa. ( (011-2647393/ 
011-2643356)
 (iii) Automobile Engineering Training Institute, 07, 
Denister De Silva Mawatha, Orugodawatta, 
Wellampitiya.  ( ( 011-2572977 / 011-2532182)
 (iv) National Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority, 
No. 10/4, Malwatta Road, Badulupitiya. Badulla.                   
( (055-2230644)
 (v) National Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority, 
No:642, Vid yala Road, New Town, Ratnapura.                    
( (045-2228667)
 (vi) National Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority, 
27 A, Open University Road, Nupe, Matara.                           
( (041-2226958)
 (vii) National Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority, 
No.108/2B, Thiwanka Bodhi Mawatha, Kandy.                    
( (081-2201918) 
 (viii) National Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority, 
Airpart Road, Anuradhapura. ( (025-2223178)
 (ix) National Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority, 
Negombo Road, Malkaduw awa, Kurunegala.                        
( (037-2223789)
 (x) National Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority, 
Somasundaram Road, Chundikkuli, Jaffna.                                    
( (021-2222383)
 (xi) National Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority, 
No.06, G S Lane, Kalmunaikudi 13, Kalmunai.                   
( (067 – 2229357)
 (xii) National Apprentice & Industrial Training 
A u t h o r i t y ,  N o .  2 4 2 ,  H a v e l o c k  R o a d ,  C o l o m b o  0 5 .                                               
( (011-2597671/011-2587258)
 (xiii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority,              
No. 326/2,Main Street,Kaluthara South  ( (034-2224239)
 (xiv) National Apprentice & Industrial Training 
Authority, No. 61/5, Minuwangoda Road, Gampaha .                              
( (033-2232874)
 (xv) National Apprentic e & Industrial Training 
Authority, Molawatta Medagama Road,Madampe.                                           
( (032-2248250)
 (xvi) National Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority, 
No. 103, Irrigation Place, New Town, Polonnaruwa.  
( (027-2223023)
 (xvii) National Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority, 
Kachcheri Complex, Monaragala.  ( (055-2276504)
(xviii) National Apprentice & Industrial Training 
Authority No. 77/3, Hospital Lane, Nuwara Eliya.                                              
( (052-2223702)
 (xix) National Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority, 
No. 11, Temple Road, Mandandawala, Matale.                      
( (066-2223173)
 (xx) National Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority, 
No. 440, Kandy Road, Meepitiya, Kegalle.                                   
( (035-2223127)
 (xxi) National Apprentice & Industrial Training 
A u t h o r i t y ,  N o .  3 9 5 ,  W a k w e l l a  R o a d ,  J u l g a h a ,  G a l l e .                                            
( (091-2235628)
 (xxii) National Apprentice & Industrial Training 
Authority, No. 34, Mihindu Mawatha, Tangalle.                                                   
( (047-2241512)
(xxiii) National Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority, 
Mankulam Road, Mulliyawalai, Mulathivu.                                 
( (021-2061012)
 (xxiv) National App rentice & Industrial Training 
Authority, Kandy Road, Anandapuram, Kilinochchi.                                       
( (021-2285615)
 (xxv) National Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority, 
N o .  1 0 3 / 7 ,  P o s t  O f fi c e  R o a d ,  T r i n c o m a l e e .                                     
( (026-2226569)
 (xxvi) National Apprentice & Industrial Training 
Authority, No. 16/1, New Kalmuni Road, Batticaloa.                                                   
( (065-2228130)

<!-- page 19 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
807
(xxvii) National Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority, 
No. 49/21,  1 st Lane, Kovil  Road, Kurumankadu, 
Vavuniya. ( (024-2224679)
 (xxviii) National Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority, 
No. 952/1, Old Moor, Street, Nallayar Street, Mannar. 
( (023-2223404).
10. The Institute of Engineering Technology will not be 
responsible for any delay or loss of applications in the mail. 
Therefore, the candidates are requested to post their applications 
well ahead in time to avoid delays.
Chairman,
National Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority,
No. 971, Sri Jayewardenepura Mawatha,
Welikada,
Rajagiriya.
04–770
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY OF  NATIONAL  POLICIES AND 
ECONOMICS AFFAIRS 
First Efficiency Bar Examination for 
Entrepreneurship Development Training Officers of 
the Small Enterprises Development Division of the 
Ministry of National Policies and Economic 
Affairs - 2015
AN examination for the first efficiency bar for the Entrepreneurship 
Development Training Officers of the Small Enterprises 
Development Division of the Ministry of National Policies and 
Economic Affairs will be held in Colombo by the Commissioner 
General of the Exam inations on behalf of this Ministry. 
Applications are invited as per the following notification. 
02. Examination Procedure : 
 (a) This examination consists of 03 question papers. The 
syllabuses relevant to each paper are as follows. 
 (b) The total marks for each subject is 100 from subject 
number 01 to 03 and the minimum pass mark is 40 for 
each subject. 
 (c) This examination will be conducted in both Sinhala 
and Tamil medium. Candidates are not allowed to 
change the medium applied for. 
 (d) Candidates are required to obtain 30 marks out of 75 
marks in the written test and 10 marks out of 25 marks 
in oral test for the subject of English. 
 (e) Candidates may pass this examination appearing for 
the 03 subjects due for this examination at a single or 
several sittings. In the event that a candidate at a single 
sitting has failed only a single test, either the written 
test or the oral test for the subject of English, he or she 
may apply only for the respective test so failed earlier, 
at the next sitting. 
 ( f) Examination Fee.– The candidates appearing for the 
whole examination or a part of it for the first time 
need not to pay the examination fee. In the event that 
it is not for the first time, the examination fee will be 
charged as mentioned below : 
  For the whole examination Rs. 500
  Per Subject  Rs. 200
This examination fee should be paid in cash at any post or 
Post Office to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the 
Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt received in 
the name of the candidate should be affixed by one margin in the 
relevant cage of the application. Money orders or stamps are not 
accepted as examination fee and under any ground the fee will not 
be refunded or transferred for any other examination. 
03. Question papers and the syllabuses relevant to each paper :
First Question Paper (Time - 03 hours)
(I) Financial Regulations (Subject Number - 01)
 (i) Consolidated Fund.
 (ii) Units of Budget Classification. 
 (iii) Recurrent Expenditure/Capital Expenditure.
 (iv) Virement Procedure. 
 (v) Supervision by the Chief Accounting Officers. 
 (vi) Accounting Officers and Accunting Officers of 
public revenue. 
 (vii) Responsibilities of Chief Accounting Officers. 
 (viii) Duties and Responsibilities of Accounting Officers 
on public revenue. 
 (ix) Supervision and control by Treasury. 
 (x) Executive powers of the Treasury as a Department. 
 (xi) Internal Audit. 
 (xii) Delegation of duties on financial control.
  ( a) Expenditure
  ( b) Revenue
 (xiii) Audit quarries.
 (xiv) Payment procedure.
 (xv) Board of Survey. 
 (xvi) Procedures on supplies and obtaining services. 
 
Second Question Paper (Time - 03 hours)
(II) Establishment Code and Office Procedure. (Subject 
Number - 02)
 A question paper that examines the knowledge on 
chapter number I, II, III, IV , VI, VII, VIII, XII, XIV , 
XV , XXII, XXIV , XXV , XXVII of the part I and chapter 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
808
number XLVII of the part II of the Establishment 
Code and the Office Procedures and field organizing 
procedures. 
Third Question Paper (Time - 03 hours)
(III) English - (Subject Number - 03)
 ( a) Written Test
 ( b) Oral Test
(1) Content :
 Written examination (3 hours)
 ( a) Grammer : The following areas will be tested :-
 (i) The verb forms of all Principal Tenses of 
English e. g. : The Present Simple Tense, The 
Simple Past, The Present Perfect, etc. 
 (ii) Nouns, Countable, Uncountable. 
 (iii) Pronouns.
 (iv) Adjectives - Degrees of Comparison.
 (v) Adverbs of Frequency, Word order, phrases.
 (vi) Prepositions.
 (vii) Determiners.
 (viii) Question Words.
 (ix) Model Auxiliaries, can, Could, May, Might, 
Should, Must, Ought. 
 (x) The Definite Article.
 (xi) Cardinals/Ordinals.
 (xii) The Passive Construction. 
 (xiii) Relative Clauses.
 (xiv) If Clauses.
 (xv) Reported Speech.
 (xvi) There is/There are
 (xvii) Have/Has
 ( b)  V ocabulary tested will be that of General Modern 
English with special emphasis on the following 
field of Management. Administration and Social 
and Economic Development. 
 ( c) Writting - Ability to write essays, Department 
Reports, official letters. 
Oral Examination (15 minutes)
 ( a) Speech
 ( b) Listening Comprehension
 ( c) Reading
(2) Scheme of Examination :
 1.  Written examination - There will be one paper of 3 
hrs duration. (75% Marks)
 2.  Oral Examination - 15 Minutes duration (25% 
Marks)
04. Method of Application : 
 ( a) The application should be prepared as per specimen 
application given at the end of this notification in an 
A4 size paper using both sides of the paper in such 
a manner that Heading Numbers (1) to (3) appear on 
the first page and the rest on the second page. The 
relevant information shoud be filled accurately in 
his/her own handwriting. Applications that do not 
comply with the specimen and that have not been filled 
properly will be rejected without notice. It would be 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the application with 
the candidate. The prefected applications that do not 
comply with the specimen application given in the 
notice will be rejected. Please indicate the title of the 
examination as appeared in the specimen, in English 
as well on both Sinhala and Tamil Application forms.
 ( b) The duly filled applications should be sent under 
registered post to reach the following address before 
20.05.2016. 
  Commissioner General of Examinations,
  Department of Examinations, 
  (Organization and Foreign Examination Branch),
  P. O. Box 1503,
  Colombo.
 ( c) The name  of the examination "First Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Entrepreneurship Development 
Training Officers 2015" should be clearly indicated 
on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing 
the application. Applications that receive after 
the closing date will not be accepted. Keeping a 
photocopy of the application will be useful.
 ( d) A notice will be published in the newspapers 
by the Department of Examinations - Sri Lanka 
immediately after the admissions are issued. In 
the event the admissions is not received at least 5 
days before the sched uled date of the examination 
mentioned in the notice, such a candidate shall 
inform the Organization and Foreign Examination 
Branch of the Department of Examinations - Sri 
Lanka as mentioned in the notice. When inquiring, 
the name of the examination applied for, the full 
name of the candidate, NIC and the address of the 
candidate shall be indicated accurately. In the event 
the candidate is a resident outside of Colombo, it 
is advisable to send a letter of request containing 
the afore-mentioned information to the fax number 
given in the notice along with a fax number to which 
a photocopy of the admission could be sent to the 
candidate soon. When in quiring so, it would be 
advisable to keep ready the copy of the application, 
copy of the receipt relevant to payment if making 
payment of examination fee is applicable and the 
receipt of registration of application to confirm any 
details inquired by the Department of Examination. 

<!-- page 21 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
809
05. Sitting for the Examination : 
 ( a) The Commissione r General of Examinations will 
issue admissions to the candidates who have sent 
duly perfected applications along with the receipt 
of payment of due examination fee, where payment 
of examination fee is relevant, paid on or before 
the closing date of the applications mentioned in 
the notice, accurately stating the medium in which 
the candidate sits for the examination, the signature 
of the candidate and the Certificate of the Head 
of the Department. Candidates should sit for the 
examinations at the examination center assigned to 
them. Candidates should get their signature on the 
admission card attested in advance and produce to the 
supervisor of the examination hall. Candidates who 
fail to produce the admission will not be permitted to 
sit for the examination. The rules to be abided by the 
candidates are given in this Gazette notification. 
Note.– Issuing of an admission card to a candidate does 
not necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled 
the qualifications to sit for the examination. All 
candidates are bound to comply with the rules and 
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General 
of Examinations with regard to the conducting of 
this examination. Candidates will be subjected to 
punishment imposed by the Commissioner General 
of Examinations in the event of violation of these 
rules and regulations. 
 ( b) Identity of the Candidates. – Candidates should 
prove their identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they 
appear for. In this respect any one of the following 
documents will be accepted : 
 (i) National Identity Card issued by the 
Department of Registration of Persons, 
 (ii) Valid Passport. 
06. The Secretary of the Ministry of National Policies and 
Economic Affairs reserves the right to make a decision on any 
matter not covered by this notification. 
  M. I. M. rafeek,
  Secretary.
Ministry of National Policies and Economic Affairs, 
"Miloda" (Old Times Building), 
First Floor, Bristol Street, 
Colombo 01, 
22nd April, 2016. 
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM 
(For office use only)
firSt efficiency Bar examination for entrepreneurShip 
development training officerS of the Small enterpriSeS 
development diviSion of the miniStry of national policieS and 
economic affairS - 2015
Medium in which you sit 
for the examination :
Sinhala - 2/Tamil - 3 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01. Name : 
  1.1 Name in full :––––––––––.
   (In English block capital letters)
   Example : HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN 
KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA
  1.2 Last Name with initials at the end of the name :–––––––.
   (In English block capital letters)
   (E. g.– GUNAWARDHANA, H. M. S. K.)
  1.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/In Tamil) :––––––––––.
  1.4 National Identity Card No. : 
02.  2.1 Official Address :––––––––––.
   (In English block capital letters)
   (Admission card will be posted to this address)
  2.2 Permanent Address :––––––––––.
   (In Sinhala/In Tamil)
  2.3 Sex : 
   (Female - 1,   Male - 0)
   (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
03 Subjects appearing in the Examination : 
 1. ................................. Subject Number 
 2. ................................. Subject Number 
 3. ................................. Subject Number 
04.  The relevant attempt number :––––––––––.
05. Examination fee : 
  (i) Amount paid : Rs. :––––––––––.
  (ii) Name of the office the fee has been paid to :–––––––––.
  (iii) Date of payment :––––––––––.
  (iv) Receipt Number :––––––––––.
If  you have paid the examination fee, according to paragraph 
No. 02(f) of the Gazette notification, the receipt should be 
affixed here. It will be advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
receipt with you. 

<!-- page 22 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
810
I declare that the above information is accurate. Further, I 
shall agree to abide by the rules and regulations imposed by the 
Commissioner General of the Examination on conducting the 
examination. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the candidate. 
Date :––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................. who 
submits this application, placed his/her signature in my presence, 
the particulars furnished by him/her are accurate and he/she 
is qualified to sit for the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination. 
Further, I certify that he/she is sitting for this examination for 
the first time/paid the examination fee and affixed the relevant 
receipt. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature. 
Date :––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the Official Stamp)
04–846
–––––––––––––––––
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  
RECRUITMENT  OF  ASSISTANT  DIRECTORS  
(GRADE  III  EXECUTIVE  SERVICE)  FOR 
THE  DEPARTMENT OF  COMMERCE  UNDER  
THE MINISTRY OF  INDUSTRY AND 
COMMERCE - 2016
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from the candidates who 
have the necessary qualifications stipulated in this notice for the 
post of Assistant Director of Commerce (11 vacancies) in the 
Department of Commerce coming under the purview of Ministry 
of Industry and Commerce.
The applications pr epared as per the specimen application 
form given at the end of this notice should be sent under registered 
post to reach "The Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Organizations and Foreign examinations Branch, Department 
of Examination of Sri La nka, P. O. Box 1503, Colombo" on or 
before the date mentioned below. On the top left hand corner 
of the envelope containing the application "Open Competitive 
Examination for Recruitment of Assistant Directors Grade III of 
Executive Service for the Department of Commerce" should be 
mentioned.
(a) Closing date of application is 20.05.2016. 
Note : The complaints made on the loss or delay of 
application and other connected letters in the post will 
not be considered. The damages caused due to delay 
in the part of applicant until the closing date shall be 
borne by the applicants. 
01. Recruitment Procedure. – Candidates who satisfy the 
prescribed qualifications will be selected in order of merit on the 
results of the written examination and an interview by the Public 
Service Commission. 
02. Terms of Engagement :
 (i) This post is permanent. You will be subjected to the 
pension scheme approved by the Government of Sri 
Lanka in the future. 
 (ii) The officers are subjected to 3 years of probationary 
period and the first efficiency bar examination should 
be passed within the 3 years of probationary period. 
 (iii) Prescribed official language proficiency shall be 
obtained within 5 years of joining the service as per 
Public Administration Circular 01/2014. The officers 
who join the service in a language other than the 
official languages should obtain proficiency in one 
language of the official languages within 3 years and 
the other within 6 years. 
 (iv) This appointment will be subjected to procedural rules 
issued by the Public Service Commission, provisions 
of the Establishment Code of Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka and financial ; regulations of 
the government and other departmental orders. 
 (v) The officers may be appointed to serve abroad 
from time to time and will be entitled to receive 
an allowance approved by the government on such 
occasions. 
 
03. Salary Scale. – The monthly salary scale entitled to this 
post is as per the Public Administration Circular No. 03/2016-
SL-1-2016, Rs. 47,615 -10x1,335 -8x 1,630 - 17x2,170 -                                    
Rs. 110,895 and the salary will be paid as per the instructions 
given therein.
04. 4.1 Educational Qualifications : 
 (i) A first class or second class (Hons.) special degree in 
Economics, Commerce, Business Administration, 
Marketing, Statistics, Accountancy, Public 
Administration or Management obtained from 
a university recognized by the University Grant 
Commission or from an institution recognized by 
the University Grant Commission as an institution 
for as awarding degrees. 
 (ii) A first class or second class general degree 
with Economics or Commerce obtained from a 
university recognized by the University Grant 
Commission or from an institution recognized by 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
811
the University Grant Commission as an institution 
for awarding degrees. 
 (iii) A degree in law obtained from a university 
recognized by the University Grant Commission 
or from an institution recognized by the University 
Grant Commission as an institution for awarding 
degrees. 
  4.2 Professional Qualification : 
  Candidates who fulfill the educational qualifications 
stipulated in 4.1. iii above should have sworn in as 
an Attorney-at-law in the Supreme Court (of Sri 
Lanka). 
 4.3 Professional Experience :
  Candidates who fulfill the educational qualifications 
stipulated in 4.1. iii above should have a minimum of 
3 years service as a practicing lawyer in the field of 
Commerce or International Trade Law. 
05. Age limit.– Should not be less than 21 and not more than 
35 years of age on the closing date of applications. (Accordingly 
candidates who have the date of birth on or after 20.05.1981 and 
on or before 20.05.1995 are only eligible to apply). 
06. Physical suitability.– All candidates should be physically 
and mentally fit to serve in any part of the island and any country 
abroad.
07. Other : 
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 (ii) Should be of good character. 
 (iii) Should have fulfilled all the required qualification for 
the post on the closing date of application. 
08. Written Examination : 
 (i) Will be held in Colombo in July 2016 by the 
Commissioner General of Examination for Public 
Service Commission.  
 (ii) Examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and 
English mediums,
 (iii) Candidates will be allowed to sit for the examination 
in any one of the languages mentioned above and 
should answer all the question papers in the same 
language so selected. The medium of language applied 
for will not be allowed to change subsequently. 
 (iv) Written examination will consist of following papers : 
  Subject Subject Duration Marks Minimum
  No.    Pass Marks
01 Intelligence Test 01 hour 100 40%
02 General Paper  02 hours 100 40%
 (Commerce and 
 Economics)
03 English 02 hours 100 40%
04 Essay and Summary 02 hours 100 40%
8.1 Syllabus of Written Examination : 
 ( a) Intelligence Test : 
  Consists of multiple questions to determine the 
candidate's ability of logical reasoning, analytical 
thinking and decision, making. 
 ( b) General Paper (Commerce and Economics) : 
  Consists of questions to examine the candidate's 
knowledge on commercial and economic background 
of Sri Lanka and overseas.
 ( c) English : 
  Consists of questions to determine the candidate's 
knowledge in grammar, vocabulary and 
comprehension of English language. Candidates 
must answer all the questions. 
 ( d) Essay and Summary :
  Should write essay/essays on one or several given 
subjects. Subjects are selected which are not related 
to the field of study but to  examine candidate's 
ability of expression, imagination, thinking capacity, 
general knowledge and language skills. 
  Comprehension is meant to examine the candidate's 
ability to understand the meaning of the given 
passage and express it clearly in a summarize form.
8.2 Interview : 
 (i) An equivalent number of candidates to the number of 
vacancies will be called for the interview in order of 
merit from candidates who have obtained more than 
40% marks for all subjects. 
 (ii) The interview board appointed by the Public Service 
Commission will examine the basic qualifications 
and certificates of the candidates. 
8.3 Release of results .– A list of names of the qualified 
candidates selected equivalent to the number of 
vacancies (as mentioned in the notice) in accordance 
with the paragraph 8.2. I will be given to the 
Secretary of the Public Service Commission. Results 
will be issued by post to all the candidates who have 
sat for the exam or will be released on www.results.
exams.gov.lk.
09. Procedure of application : 
 (i) The examination will be held in all three languages : 
Sinhala, Tamil and English. Candidates will be able 
to sit f or the examination in any one language and 
should appear for all subj ects only in the language 
selected by him/her. The medium of language 
applied for will not be allowed to change under 
any circumstances. Candidates must sit for all four 
papers. 

<!-- page 24 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
812
 (ii) The examination fee is Rs. 1,000. The receipt 
obtained by paying the above examination fee to 
the credit of the revenue head 2003-02-13 of the 
Commissioner General of Examination at any Post 
Office of the Island should be properly affixed in 
the relevant space provided in the application form. 
Keeping a photocopy of the receipt will be useful. 
Note : The examination fees once paid will 
not be fully or partially refunded under 
any circumstances or for reasons such as 
withdrawing the application declining in sitting 
for the examination or having found disqualified 
after sitting for the examination. 
 (iii) The examination will be held in Colombo and the 
date of examination will be notified later. 
 (iv) All incomplete applications will be rejected without 
any  notification to the applicant. 
Note : Issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
should not be considered as an acceptance that 
he or she has fulfilled the required qualifications 
to sit for the examination. 
 (v) Application should be prepared in accordance with 
the specimen using "A4 sheets and section 01 to 08 
in the first page and the remaining sections in the 
second and third pages". All entries in the application 
have to be made in the applicant's own clear hand 
writing. Name of the examination in the heading 
should be written additionally in English language in 
the case of Sinhala and Tamil medium applications.
  All applications which do not comply with the 
specimen application and all incomplete applications 
will be rejected without any notification to the 
applicant. Keeping a photocopy of the application 
will be useful. 
 (vi) Any application which is not complete in every 
aspect is liable to be rejected. No complaint than an 
application has been lost or delayed in post will be 
considered. 
 (vii) Application should be prepared in the medium of 
language which the applicant intends to sit for the 
examination. 
 (viii) Completed applications should be forwarded by 
registered post to reach the Commissioner General 
of Examinations, Organizations and Foreign 
Examinations Branch, Department of Examination 
of Sri Lanka, P. O. Box 1503, Colombo on or before 
20th of May 2016. Applications received after 
the closing date will not be accepted. The words 
"Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
of Assistant Directors Grade III (Executive Service) 
for the Department of Commerce" should be clearly 
indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope 
enclosing the application. 
 (ix) Receipt of application will not be acknowledged. A 
newspaper advertisement will be published by the 
Department of Examination as soon as admission 
cards have been issued. It is advisable for applicants 
to be on alert of such advertisements. 
 (x) The Commissioner General will issue admission 
cards on the assumption of that the applicants have 
fulfilled all the requirement specified in the notice, 
the prescribed fee has been duly paid and the 
certification/attesting of the application has been 
done correctly. 
  A newspaper advertisement will be published by 
the Department of Examination as soon as the 
admission cards have been issued. Candidates who 
do not receive their admission cards at least 05 days 
before the date of the examination mentioned in the 
advertisement should, without delay inquire from the 
Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch of 
the Department of Examination, Sri Lanka, Name 
of the examination, Full name of the applicant, 
National Identity Card Number, Address should be 
mentioned when an inquiry is made. If such applicant 
lives outside Colombo, it is advisable to send a fax 
to the Fax number mentioned in the advertisement 
submitting a letter including above details and a 
fax number of the applicant, in order to receive 
admission card immediately as possible. Keeping a 
photocopy of the copy of the complete d application 
and the receipt obtained from the registered post will 
be useful for such situations. 
 (xi) The Commissioner General of Examinations, reserves 
the rights to postpone or cancel the examination with 
the approval of the Public Service Commission. 
 (xii) The candidate who sits for the examination should 
produce the attested admission card to the supervisor 
in the prescribed examination hall. Any candidate 
who fails to pr oduce the admission card will not be 
allowed to sit for the examination. 
  All candidates should be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General 
of Examinations on conducting the examination and 
they are liable to a punishment imposed by  him for 
breach of these rules. 
 (xiii) A candidates must  sit the examination only at the 
assigned examination hall. Every candidate must get 
his/her admission card duly attested and surrender 

<!-- page 25 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
813
it to the supervisor of the hall on the first day s/he 
presents himself/herslef for the examination. A set of 
rules to be observed by all candidates is published in 
the  Gazette. 
Note : Issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
should not be considered as an acceptance that 
he or she has fulfilled the required qualifications 
to sit for the examination. 
 (xiv) Identity of a candidate.– The candidate should prove 
his/her identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor 
on each subject he/she sits for. Either of the following 
documents will be accepted. 
 ( a) The National Identity Card issued by the 
Department of Registration of Persons ;
 ( b) Valid passport. 
  Special note : 
 ( a) Any document or a copy of the document should 
not be attached to the application ;
 ( b) Applications of those candidates who fail to 
furnish documents when required, will not be 
considered. 
The candidates who are already in public service should 
forward their application forms through the respective Head of 
the Department and the signature in the admissin card should be 
attested by the respective Head of the Department. In the case 
of other candidates' signature in the application form should 
have been attested by a Principal of a Government School, a 
Justice of the Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, Notary Public, 
Commissioned Officer in the armed forces, an officer holding 
a Gazetted  post in the Police Service or an Office holding a 
permanent post in the Public Service whose annual salar y is   
Rs. 240,360 or above. 
10. This post shall be subjected to procedural rules issued by 
the Public Service Commission Circular and other provisions 
issued by the government from time to time in relation to the 
Public Service and the conditions stipulated in the relevant 
scheme of recruitment of the Grade III Executive Service and any 
amendments subsequnetly make. 
11. If any incorrect any information in the application is found 
before the appointment, his/her candidature will be liable for 
cancellation. If such information is found after the appointment 
will render the applicant liable to cancellation/dismissal from the 
service. 
12. Decisions will be taken by the Public Service Commission 
regarding any matter not mentioned in this notice. The final 
decisions in filling all the vacancies or part of the vacancies rest 
with the Public Service Commission. 
13. This notification is published in Sinhala, Tamil and 
English and if there is any discrepancy among these texts, the 
notice published in Sinhala is considered as correct. 
On the order of Public Service Commission, 
 T. M. K. B. tennekoon, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Industry and Commerce. 
No. 73/1, Galle Road, 
Colombo 03, 
On 30th March, 2016. 
Annexture I
Specimen Application Form 
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR 
RECRUITMENT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTORS FOR THE 
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE UNDER THE MINISTRY 
OF INDUSTRY AND COMMERCE  - 2016
(For office use only)
Medium of examination : 
(Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, English - 4)
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
(The phrase "Application for the Post of Assistant Director of 
Commerce in the Department of Commerce" should be clearly 
indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing 
the application)
01.   (i) Full Name (In English block letters) :––––––––––.
   ( Eg. : HERATH  MUDIYANSELAGE  SAMAN    
  KUMARA  GUNAWARDHANA)
  (ii) Surname with initials (in block letters) :––––––––––.
   ( Eg. : GUNAWARDHANA, H. M. S. K.)
  (iii) Full name (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
02. Postal Address and the Telephone No. (In English Block 
Letters) :––––––––––.
 (Admission will be sent to this address)
03. Sex : 
 (Male - 0,  Female - 1)
 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
04.  National Identity Card Number : 
05. Resident District :––––––––––.
06. Wh ether married ? Unmarried ? Widow/Widower ? :–––––––.
07. Date and place of birth : 
 Year : Month :  Date :

<!-- page 26 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
814
  (i) Place of birth :––––––––––.
  (ii) Age as per Gazette Notification :––––––––––.
   Year : Month : Date :
08. Ethnicity :  Sinhala - 1
    Sri Lanka Tamil - 2
    Indian Tamil - 3
    Muslim - 4
    Burgher - 5
    Malay - 6
    Other - 7
    (Write the relevant number in the cage)
09. Education Qualifications :––––––––––.
 (Mention the details of all degrees, merit passes, professional 
and vocational qualifications obtained, date of obtaining such 
qualifications, if a cla ss has been obtained, details on them, 
the subject offered and the names of institutions)
  Examination/Degree Year Subject
  ( b) Exam passed with a credit pass :
 (1) Sinhala (2) Tamil (3) English
10. Academies, School and other institutions attended after 12 
years of age : 
 Academy or School From To
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
 Professional Education :
 Institute From To
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
11. Details on outstanding achievements in sports and details of 
responsible posts held by you in such fields of sports :–––––––.
12. ( a) Have you released form indebtedness ? If you have 
indebted, for how much ? :––––––––––.
 ( b) Are you a convict for a criminal offense in the court ? If 
so, mention all the details with dates number of the case 
:–––––––––. 
13. Mention the present employment and previous employments 
(Date of assuming duties, date of termination from the service 
and last drawn annual salary) :-
 Designation From To Annual Salary 
     Rs. 
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
14. Special Qualifications :––––––––––––.
 (Do you have special qualifications and/or experience 
mentioned in the Gazette Notification ? If so, indicate entire 
details on them including the dates. Please see the Gazette 
Notification for any special qualification specified) :–––––––.
15. If any other information :––––––––––––.
16. (Attach the original receipt receipt by pasting it from an edge 
here) :
 No. of the receipt :––––––––––––.
 Date :––––––––––––.
 Divisional Secretariat :––––––––––––.
17. I do hereby certify that the particulars provided by me in 
this application form are true and correct. Further, I am fully 
aware that if any information provided herein is found to be 
false or incorrect prior to my selection for the post, I am liable 
to be disqualified and if it is found after the selection, I am 
liable to be dismissed from the service without paying any 
compensation. I am also aware that I will be subject to all the 
rules and regulations stipulated by the Commissioner General 
of Examinations with regard to conducting the examination 
and issuance of reulsts. 
    ––––––––––––––,
    Signature of the Applicant. 
Date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.04.2016
815
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
18. Attestation  of signature of the applicant I attest that I know 
the applicant Mr./Mrs./Ms. ............................. and s/he has 
signed before me on ............................... and the required 
examination fee has been paid and the receipt of the bill is 
attached herewith. 
    ––––––––––––––––,
    Signature of the Attester. 
Date :––––––––––.
Name of the Attester :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(Official stamp of the Attester)
If the applicant serves in th e government service, report of the 
Head of the Department on the applicant : 
I do hereby certify that the particulars given in paragraph 13 
above are correct/should be amended as follows, the applicant 
has paid the relevant examination fees and pasted the receipt and 
his/her work and conduct is ............................... He/She can be 
released. Cannot be released from his/her present position. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Head of the  
 Department/Institution. 
Post :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
04–903