

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1560
    Page
Post - Vacant … … …  1556
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"124 – 2019 uehs ui 17 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'05'17
No. 2,124 –  FRiday ,  may 17, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 07th June, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 24th may, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1553-B 81523- 5,403 (05/2019)
N. B.–   Part i:iii, ii and iii of the Gazette No. 2,123 of 10.05.2019 were not published.


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2019
1554
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2019
1555
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2019
1556
Posts – vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of 
marriages (kandyan/General)
 
moNaRaGaLa  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the posts of Registrar of Births, deaths and Registrar/additional Registrar marriages/
additional Registrar of marriages in the divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or Widow/Widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in Public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule.
06. Related applications and "attachment 1" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
17th June, 2019.
 N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 26th april, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat Division
Post and Division  for which  Applications are 
called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
monaragala Bibila Post of Registrar of marriages (Kandyan/
General) in Bibila division and Birth and deaths 
of Nilgala division
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, monaragala.
05–265

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2019
1557
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of 
marriages (kandyan/General)
KEGaLLE  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the posts of Registrar of Births, deaths and Registrar/additional Registrar marriages/
additional Registrar of marriages in the divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or Widow/Widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in Public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule.
06. Related applications and "attachment 1" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
17th June, 2019.
 N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 26th april, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat
Post and Division  for which  Applications are called Address to which 
Applications should be sent
Kegalle yatiyanthota Post of Registrar of marriages (Kandyan/General) in 
Korala thuna and Pathabulathgama  division and Birth 
and deaths of Kithulgala Palatha division
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kegalle.
05–263
––––––––––––––––––
v ACANCIES Of ThE POSTS 
SRI LANkA POLICE 
Posts of Police Constable, Woman Police Constable and Police Constable Driver
cLoSiNG date of receiving applications for the above mentioned posts published on Gazette No. 2116 dated 22.03.2019 
will be extended up to 22.06.2019.
 c. d. 
WiCkramaratNe, 
Police Headquarters,  Act. inspector General of Police. 
colombo 01,
14th may, 2019.
05–822

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2019
1558
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of muslim of marriages
 
moNaRaGaLa  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of muslim marriages Registrar of marriages in the divisions set out 
in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the muslim marriage divisions and should be entitled to properties 
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. only muslim males can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age. (maximum age limit of the 
retirement is 65).
04. applicants should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or widow/widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of muslim marriage 
and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from the notices 
exhibited in public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, Land and district Registries, 
Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and "attachment i" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
17th June, 2019.
 N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 26th april, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat 
Division
Post and Division  for which  
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
monaragala medagama Post of muslim Registrar of marriages 
Bakinigahawela division
district Secretary/additional Registrar 
General, district Secretariat, monaragala
05–264

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2019
1559
mINISTRy Of hOuSING CONSTRuCTION 
AND CuLTuRAL  AffAIRS
Sri Lanka National film Corporation 
V acaNciES oF PoStS
aPPLicatioNS are called from qualified persons in both 
education and other mentioned below for following vacancies 
pervailed in the Sri Lanka National Film corporation.
 Posts Number of Vacancies
General manager (Hm2-1) 01
deputy General manager (Hm1-1) 02
Post.– General manager (Hm2-1)
Qualifications.– must have an experience of 10 years 
completed in the field of Senior Management after receiving 
Post Graduation with General degree received from a 
University approved by University Grant commission.
Salary Scale.– management Service circular No. 
02/2016 (i) Hm 2-1 - Rs. 91,645 - 2, 700 x 12 x Rs. 124,045.
(the start salary will be paid according to the Second 
Schedule of management Service circular No. 02/2016 (i).
Salary.– Rs. 82,122
Age Limit.– Not more than 55 years.
Method of Recruitment.– through an interview.
Standard of Post and Conditions of Service.– actions 
will be taken according to the approved recruitment method.
Post.– deputy General manager - operation (Hm1-1)
Qualifications.– must have an experience of 12 years in 
the field of Management  after receiving the first Graduation, 
in Government corporation, Statutary Board,  or recognized 
Private institution, with General degree and Post Graduation 
in related field received from a University approved by the 
University Grant commission.
Post.– deputy General manager - Finance and 
administration (Hm1-1)
Qualifications.– must have an experience of 12 years in 
the field of Management after receiving the first Graduation, 
in Government corporation, Statutary Board, or recognized 
Private institution with General degree and Post Graduation 
in related field received from a University approved by the 
University Grant commission.
Salary Scale.– management Service circular No. 
02/2016 (i) Hm 1-1 Rs. 80,295 -2,270x 15 - Rs. 114,345.
(the start salary will be paid according to the Second 
Schedule of management Service circular No. 02/2016 (i).
Salary.– Rs.71,942
Age Limit.– Not more than 55 years.
Method of Recruitment.– through an interview.
Standard of Post and Conditions of Service.– actions 
will be taken according to the approved recruitment method.
02. applicants must be a Sri Lankan and have an excellent 
character and the following copies of certificates should be 
attached with the application.
1. copies of Educational Certificates
2. Copy of the Birth Certificate
3. Copy of the experience Certificates.
03. Method of forwarding Applications :-
 (i) The applicants who fulfilled the abovesaid 
qualifications, send in their applications 
prepared by themselves to the President, Sri 
Lanka National Film corporation, No. 303, 
Baudhaloka mawatha, colombo 07 by registered 
post and the name of the post applied for should 
be clearly mentioned in the top left corner of the 
envelope.
 (ii) Late applications are not entertained and if found 
any false information given by the applicants 
after or before the recruitment it will be rejected 
and treated as unqualified for this post.
 President,
 Sri Lanka National Film corporation.
No. 303, Baudhaloka mawatha, 
colombo 07.
05-359

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2019
1560
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of hEALTh, NuTRITION AND 
INDIGENOuS mEDICINE  
Enrolment of Graduates for the Orientation and 
Coordination Courses of the Service of Professions 
Supplementary to medicine - 2019
aPPLicatioNS are called from eligible Sri Lankan 
citizens who possess a degree obtained from a university 
recognized by the University Grants commission, for the 
recruitment to the following orientation and coordination 
courses for the Service of Professions Supplementary to 
medicine of ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous 
medicine.
2. Academic and other special qualifications relevant to 
the post :
Code
No.
Orientation and 
Coordination Course
Degree required to 
be completed
1 medical Laboratory 
technologist B.Sc. mLS
2 Pharmacist B. Pharm
B.Sc. Pharmacy
3 Physiotherapist B.Sc. Physiotherapy
4 Radiographer B.Sc. Radiotherapy
B.Sc. Radiography
3. Other General Qualifications: 
 (a) Should be not less than 18 years and not more 
than 35 years of age as at 14.06.2019.
 (b) the effective date of the degree should be a date 
prior to the closing date of applications.
 (c) Should be fit mentally and physically.
4. Method of application :
 (a) the application should be prepared using a4 
size papers in accordance with the specimen 
form of application appended to this notification. 
(Numbers from 01 to 09 of the application 
should appear on the first page of the paper and 
numbers from 10 to 13 should appear on the 
other side of the paper).
 (b) the receipt obtained by paying Rs.300/- to 
the credit of the account of "director General 
of Health Services-collection of Exam Fees" 
Number 7041318 of the Bank of ceylon, 
Thaprobane Branch, should be affixed so as not 
be detached, on the place where it is mentioned 
"Receipt" in the application. (Please keep a 
copy of the receipt with you)
 (c) candidate’s signature should be attested by a 
Principal of a Government School/ Justice of 
the peace/ commissioner for oaths/ an attorney 
at Law / Notary Public / authorized officer in 
tri-forces / an officer who holds a Gazetted  post 
in the police service or public officer who holds 
a permanent and pensionable post in staff grade 
post in Public Service or Provincial Public 
Service and obtain a consolidated salary more 
than Rs.393, 684/= per annum.
 (d) the words " Enrolment of Graduates as trainees 
for the training of the Service of Professions 
Supplementary to medicine - 2019” and relevant 
degree and academic year should be mentioned 
on the top left hand corner of the envelope 
of size 9" x 4" in which the duly completed 
application should be enclosed and it should 
be sent to reach the director (administration - 
Establishment), ministry of Health, Nutrition 
and indigenous medicine, “Suwasiripaya”, 
No.385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero 
mawatha, colombo 10 under registered post on 
or before 14.06.2019.
5. Employees in Public or Semi - Government 
institutions should submit their applications through 
the respective Head of the department. the applicants 
should note that this is an external recruitment and they 
have no right of reversion to the current post either                                                                                                
he/she will be able or not able to complete the training  
successfully.
6. Receipt of applications will not be informed and 
applications which will be received after the closing date  
will be rejected. The applications which are not complying 
to the instructions and the relevant specimen form 
given in this notification, will be rejected without any notice.
7. Eligible persons will be selected to each training 
course according to the merit list prepared on the basis of 
the effective date of the degree and GP a value relevant 
to each training course. the priority will be given to 
the graduates those who have completed the degree 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2019
1561
after 08.01.2018 which was the closing date of previous 
Gazette notification regarding enrolment of these graduates.
8. if the number of applicants is higher than the number 
of existing vacancies, a written examination which 
consists of a question paper on General knowledge and 
aptitude of 01 hour, will be held to select for enrolment  
for the orientation and coordination course and a 
number equal to the number of existing vacancies will be 
enrolled for the training on the merit of marks obtained 
at the examination. at the interview, applicants should 
produce the original copies and certified copies of the 
following documents.
 (a) Birth Certificate.
 (b) Original of the Degree Certificate (A certified 
copy should also be sent with the application)
 (c) Original Certificates of the results of the G.C.E. 
(o/L) and G.c.E. (a/L) Examinations.
 (d) National identity card or valid passport or valid 
driving license.
 (e) Should be continuously resided in the district 
from which you are applying for a period of 03 years 
immediately prior to the closing date of 
applications which is 14.06.2019.
I.  A certificate issued by Grama Niladari and 
counter signed by Divisional Secretary to confirm 
the residence (certificate of the Grama Niladari)
9. The training procedure :
Code 
No.
Orientation and 
Coordination
course
Duration 
of the 
course
Medium in 
which the 
course should 
be followed
1 medical Laboratory 
technologist 6 months English
2 Pharmacist 6 months English
3 Physiotherapist 6 months English
4 Radiographer 6 months English
 i. applicants selected from the interview will 
be attached to training schools to follow the 
relevant orientation and coordination course. 
the courses should be followed in the medium 
which is mentioned against each course.
 ii.  trainees admitted to the training schools will be 
subject to the rules and regulations prevail in the 
training schools and the orders imposed by the 
ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous 
medicine from time to time.
 iii. the trainees who will not complete the training 
successfully at the end of the training period 
or whose work and conduct are not satisfactory 
or who fail to adhere to the conditions of the 
training school, may be terminated without 
compensation at any time.
 iV . an allowance will be paid to the trainees during 
the training period in terms of the Provisions of 
Public administration circular 03/2016.
 V.  at the time you are admitted to the training 
school, you should enter into an agreement 
and bond of surety with the director General 
of Health Services that you will complete the 
training successfully, that you will not leave the 
training programme and if you will be granted 
an appointment after completing the said entire 
training that you will serve in the relevant 
post at least for a period of 05 years. in case 
you leave or abandon the training during the 
training period or your training is terminated as 
per the above section iii or you fail to serve in 
the relevant post for a period of 05 years in the 
relevant post after appointment, the allowance 
paid to you during the training period, expenses 
incurred by the Government and the amount 
of the surety bond should be refunded to the 
ministry of Health Nutrition and indigenous 
medicine by you. if not, legal action will be 
instituted in terms of the agreement to recover 
that amount.
10. Terms of engagement.– at the end of the training, 
it will be decided to grant / not to grant permanent 
appointments considering the number of vacancies existing 
for the time being. accordingly, if the ministry of Health, 
Nutrition and indigenous medicine decides to grant 
permanent appointment in the relevant post, action will 
be taken to appoint the candidates to the class iii of the 
relevant post in terms of the conditions in the Scheme of 
Recruitment relevant to the course concerned. in terms of 
Public administration circular 03/2016, the salary scale 
Rs. 32,080-445x10-660x11-730x10-750x10- Rs. 58,590 
of mt-6-2016 is applicable to the posts given above under 
the code numbers 1,2,3,4 of the Service of Professions 
Supplementary to medicine, and payments are made in 
terms of the provisions of Public administration circular 
03/2016.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2019
1562
11. The particulars of education and other qualifications in the application should be filled carefully and accurately. 
If the above mentioned certificates are found to be counterfeit after recruitment to the training or after appointment, action 
will be taken to refer to the criminal investigation department for legal action, and also to cancel the appointment and to 
dismiss from the training / post, and to enter his / her name in the black list of those who are not permitted to be re-employed 
in the Public Service after taking legal action against him / her. in addition, action will be taken to recover the allowance 
paid to him / her during the training period, expenses incurred by the Government, and the amount of agreement and Surety 
Bond.
12. Selected applicants should attend for a medical examination during the first month of the training to obtain 
a certification that he/she is physically and mentally fit to follow the course and serve in any part of the Island, and if an 
applicant is found to be unfit at the medical examination he / she will be disqualified for the training.
13. All persons selected as above will be subject to all laws and regulations relevant to the public officers, the 
provisions of the Establishments code of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, policies imposed by the ministry of 
Health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine, Financial Regulations and other regulations and rules and orders that may be 
imposed by the Government from time to time.
14. this ministry is not bound to provide residential facilities in the training schools for the applicants recruited for 
the training. if such facilities are provided, rent assessed for a room, water and electricity bills will be charged.
15. if any problem arises regarding enrolment to the training or any matter covered or uncovered by this 
Gazette notification, the decision of the Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine will be final. 
in case of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, tamil and English texts, the text in Sinhala will prevail.
 WaSaNtha Perera,
 Secretary,
 ministry of Health, Nutrition & indigenous medicine.
ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine, 
"Suwasiripaya"
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha,
colombo 10,
27th april, 2019.
SPEcimEN FoRm oF aPPLicatioN
eNrolmeNt of graduateS for orieNtatioN aNd CoordiNatioN traiNiNg CourSeS of the SerViCe of
ProfeSSioNS SuPPlemeNtary to mediCiNe -2019
read the Gazette NotifiCatioN Carefully before filliNg the aPPliCatioN
• course applying for :...............................................................................   
 (in Sinhala / tamil)
• course applying for :............................................................................... 
 (in English)
01.  (a)  Name with initials :––––––––––––.
   (in English Block capitals):- Ex: a.B.c. SiLVa  :––––––––––––.
  (b)  Name in Full (in English Block capitals) :––––––––––––.
  (c)  Name in Full (Sinhala /t amil)  :––––––––––––.
02. National identity card No. :- 
 (attach a copy)
code Number relevant to the 
training course (according 
to the Gazette Notification)

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2019
1563
03. Postal address:- in Sinhala /tamil :––––––––––––.     in English :––––––––––––.
04. (a) Permanent address:  in Sinhala /t amil :––––––––––––. in English :––––––––––––.
 (b) telephone No. :  mobile : Fixed :
 (c) district of Residence:  in Sinhala/ tamil :––––––––––––. in English :––––––––––––.
 (d) are you a permanent resident in this district: yes/No :––––––––––––. 
 (e) if “y es”, How long :––––––––––––. 
05. date of Birth: year :––––––––––––.  month :––––––––––––.   date  :––––––––––––.
 age as at ................. 2019 : y ears :––––––––––––. months :––––––––––––.  days :––––––––––––.
06. Gender:  Female   male  (mark a ‘P’ in the relevant cage)
07. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka:  y es  No     (mark a ‘P’ in the relevant cage)
08. civil Status:   married   Single 
09. Educational Qualifications:
Serial 
No. Degree Grade
Grade Point Average 
(GP A) and Effective 
date of the degree
University Academic
Year
Medium in which you 
appear for the Written 
examination
10. Have you ever been convicted for any offense in a court of law?  : y es     No
 (mark ‘P’ in the relevant cage)  
 if so, give particulars :––––––––––––.
11) Certification of the applicant:
 (a) i certify that i have carefully studied and understood the Gazette notification and filled the application subject 
to all the conditions mentioned therein, and i do not take part in any other full time course and the particulars 
furnished by me in the application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
 (b) i am aware that if this declaration or any particulars contained in the application are found to be false, i am liable 
to be disqualified for the training, and if so, found after appointment, I am liable to be dismissed.
 (c) and, i am aware that this is an external recruitment and i have no right of reversion to the current post even if i 
will be/ will be not able to complete the training successfully.
Affix the receipt obtained by paying Rs.300/= to the credit of the Account of "Director General of 
Health Services - collection of Exam Fees" Number 7041318 of the 
Bank of ceylon, thaprobane branch.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date  :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2019
1564
12) Attestation of the Applicant’s Signature :
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss  ................................ who is submitting this application is personally known to 
me and he/ she placed his/her signature in my presence on .............................................
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attester.
date  :––––––––––––.
Full Name of the attester  :––––––––––––.
designation  :––––––––––––.
Address  :––––––––––––.          Official Frank of the Attestor.
13. Certification of the Head of the Department, if the applicant is in Public Service / Provincial Public Service 
(Delete irrelevant words) :
 i. i hereby certify that the above applicant mr./ mrs./ miss ..................................................... holds the Post of  
.......................... in this department.
 ii. i hereby certify that the particulars furnished in the above application are true and he/ she can/ cannot be 
released if he/she is selected to the post.
 iii. i hereby state that i have explained him/ her that this is an external recruitment and he/ she has no right of 
reversion to the current post after completing successfully or without completing the relevant training.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the department.
date  :––––––––––––.
Name of the Head of the department  :––––––––––––.
designation  :––––––––––––.
address  :––––––––––––.
(Official frank of the Head Department)
05-501
–––––––––––––––––––––
Annexture 02
Notice of amendment
mINISTRy Of EDuCATION 
First Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers of Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service -2019
tHE Section 05.1(a) of the notice No. 03-465 published in the Gazette No. 2114, dated 08.03.2019 will be amended, as 
follows :
Said Section has been published as "the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and its 
previous constitutions in 1972 and 1974". it should be amended as "the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka and its previous constitutions in 1972 and 1947".
 m. N. r
aNaSiNghe, 
 Secretary, 
 ministry of Education. 
ministry of Education,
"isurupaya",
Battaramulla,
13th may, 2019.
05–769
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  oF  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.