

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
THE SERETSE KHAMA FOUNDATION TRUST
(INCORPORATION)
————————
[Bill No. 244]
————————
Presented by Hon. Buddhika Pathirana, M.P. for   Matara District
 on 05th June, 2013
(Published in the Gazette on May 13, 2013)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
to incorporate the Seretse Khama Foundation Trust
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
2—PL 007322—850 (06/2013)

<!-- page 2 -->

1The Seretse Khama Foundation Trust
(Incorporation)
2—PL 007152—  75 (04/2013)
Preamble.
Short title.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SERETSE KHAMA FOUNDATION TRUST
WHEREAS a trrust called and known as  the “The Seretse
Khama Foundation Trust” has heretofore been ceated in Sri
Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the said
Foundation Trust:
AND WHEREAS the Board of Trustees of the said
Foundation Trust  has heretofore successfully carried out
and transacted the several objects and matters for which the
said Foundation Trust was created on 20th January 2006,
and has applied to be incorporated, and it will be for the
public advantage to grant the application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as The Seretse Khama
Foundation Trust (Incorporation) Act, No.      of 2013.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as presently are members of the
“The Seretse Khama Foundation Trust” (hereinafter referred
to as the “Foundation Trust”) and whose names are set out in
the schedule of this Act  or shall hereafter be admitted as
members of the Corporation hereby, constituted, shall be a
body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)
with perpetual succession under the name and style of “The
Seretse Khama Foundation Trust” and by that name may sue
and be sued in all courts with full power and authority to have
and to use a Common Seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to perpetuate the memory of Sir SecretseKhama,
the first President of Botswana and spread his
message of peace and unity in Sri Lanka;
Incorporation
of the Seretse
Khama
Foundation.
30

<!-- page 3 -->

2 The Seretse Khama Foundation Trust
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to develop bilateral relations between Botswana
and Sri Lanka by promoting cultural, social and
economic exchanges between the two countries;
(c) to engage in activities for poor relief and the
eradcation of poverty;
(d) to provide financial assistance and to award
scholarships and bursaries to the deserving students
to the University of  Botswana and the University
of Colombo;
(e) to provide assistance and relief during the natural
disasters;
(f) to work toward the eliminiation of all terms
discrimination amongst the people and uphold the
Rule of Law;
(g) to support women and children for the upliftment
of their lives;
(h) to establish and maintain youth hostels, medical
centres and hospices;
(i) to establish internet international communications
and radio stations for disseminatio of knowledge;
(j) to assist the government in its efforts to improve
the livings condition fo the people;
(k) to engage in disaste relief and reconstruction;
(l) to establish medical aid and legal aid schemes for
the welfare of people; and
(m) to do all such other thisgs as may be necessary or
conducive to the accomplishment of the objects of
the Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3The Seretse Khama Foundation Trust
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
4. (1) The Board of Trustees shall consist of minimum
of three and a maximum of seven Trustees, five of whom are
appointed in accordance with the rules of the Corporation
and others are appointed by the Board of Trustees as and
when it is deemed necessary,
(2) Mr. Chulapathmendra Dahanayake shall be the
lifetime Trustee shall be the Chairman  of the Board of
Trustees of the Foundation Trustees for a period of five years
from the date of commencement of this Act.
(3) The other Trustees shall hold office for a period of
five years from the date of commencement of this Act.
(4) Any turstee who may be appointed by the Board of
Trustees of the Foundation Trust shall hold office for a period
of five years or less as deermined at the discretion of the
Board of Trustees.
(5) In the event of the death of Chulpathmendra
Dahanayake the other Trustees shall have the right to elect a
person amongst themselves as Chairman or to appoint a new
trustee in terms of the provision herein contained.
(6) If any Trustees shall retire from office or shall become
unfit to act or incapable of acting or refuse to act or resign as
Trustees or any Trustee shall happen to die, a successor
Trustee shall forthwith be appointed by the continuing
and / or surviving Trustees provided that any such Successor
Trustee shall be appointed with the consent of the settlor
during the life.
(7) A Trustee may be removed from office only pursuant
to a decision made by a 2/3 majority of the trustees and with
the approval of the settlor.
5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law the Corporation shall have the power to do all
such acts and things as are necessary for or conducive or
incidental to the carring out of the objects of the Foundation
Trust.
30
Constitution
of the
Foundation
Trust.
General
Powers of
the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 The Seretse Khama Foundation Trust
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by subsection (1), the Corporation shall have the
following powers:—
(a) to acquire in any manner whatsoever and hold any
property movable or immovable which maybecome
vested in it by any purchase, grant, gift, device or
otherwise;
(b) to sell, mortgage, lease, convey, devise, assign,
exchnage or otherwise dispose of any such
property;
(c) to invest found belonging to the Foundation Trust
in Treasury Bonds, Treasury Bills and such other
Securities as may be determined by the Corporation;
(d) to open, operate, maintain and close bank accounts
and to borrow or raise money with or without
security;
(e) to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Foundation Trust;
(f) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations
in cash or kind;
(g) to administer the officers of the Trust and manage
its assets;
(h) to engage in dialogue with Government and other
institutions and Banks in furtherance of the objects
of the Foundation Trust;
(i) to determine what monies are to be considered
capital and what income;
(j) to derermin what expenses, costs and outgoings are
properly out of capital or income respectively;30

<!-- page 6 -->

5The Seretse Khama Foundation Trust
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(k) to establish tourist resorts and provide touring and
cab services, create new ventures within the
objectives of the Trust, lay out policies and
effectively implement them;
(l) to purchase farms and agricultural properties; and
(m) to do all such acts and things as are incidental or
conducive for the carrying out of the objects of the
Foundation Turst.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time  to
time at any meeting of the members and by a majority of not
less than two-thirds of the members present and voting to
make rules not inconsistent with the provisions of this  Act
or any other written law and the terms of the Trust for all or
any of the following matters:—
(a) the award of scholarships and the provisions of
financial assistance;
(b) the procedure to be followed inthe transaction of
business at meetings of the Corporation;
(c) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
members of the Corporation and various officers
and servants of the Corporation;
(d) the defrayal of such expenses as may be incurred
by the Foundation Trust for the purpose of carrying
out the objects of the Foundation Trust;
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Foundation Trust, the custody of its funds
and maintenance and audit of its account; and
(f) such other things as may be necessary for the
attainment of the objects of the Foundation Trust.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 The Seretse Khama Foundation Trust
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be altered,
amended,   rescinded at a like meeting and in like manner as
a rule may be made under subsection (1).
(3) All member of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Board of Trustees of the Foundation Trust
shall meet at least once a year.
(2) Special General Meetings may be called by the
Chairman of the Board on giveing five days notice to all
trustees.
(3) Three (3) Trustees shall form the Quorum.
(4) Minutes of every meeting shall be read at the next
meeting and shall be confirmed either with or without
amendments.
(5) Meetings of the Board of Trustees of the Foundation
Trust may be held either in Sri Lanka or Botswana.
8. The Fund of the Corporation shall consist of—
(a) All moneys lying to the credit of the Foundation
Trust on the day immediately preceding the date of
the commencement of this Act;
(b) All moneys that may accrue to the Corporation
afterthe date of commencement of this Act; and
(c) The financial year of the Corporation shall be from
1st of April to 31st of March every year.
9. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of all income and expenditure of the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
annually by the auditors appointed by the Corporation.
PL 007152 Seretse Khama Foundaton (G)
Meetings of
the Board of
Trustees.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Audit and
accounts.

<!-- page 8 -->

7The Seretse Khama Foundation Trust
(Incorporation)
10. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation Trust
existing on the day preceding the date of commencement of
this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted
and all debts due to and all subscriptions and fees payable
to the Foundation Trust on that day shall be paid to the
Corporation for the purpose of this Act.
11. The Seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody
of the Corporation and it shall not be affixed to any instrument
whatsoever except with the sanction of the Corporation and
in the presence of two members of the Corporation who shall
sign their names to the instrument in token of their presence
and such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice
or affect the rights of the Republic of Sri Lanka or of
anybody politic  or corporate or any other persons except
such as are mentioned in the Act and those  claiming by,
from, or under them.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES (Clause 2)
1. Chulapathmendra Dahanayake
2. Earle Laksman Jayawardene
3. Dhammika Kitulgoda
4. Jayantha W. A. Seneviratne
5. Mrs. Indra Hemantha Dahanayake
6. Mohamad Uvais Mohamad Tharique
7. Palaninathan Vijithan
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of any
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
5
10
15
20

<!-- page 9 -->

8 The Seretse Khama Foundation Trust
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .