

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.05.2014
1 A
wxl 1864$54 - 2014 uehs ui 30 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'05'30
No. 1864/54  –  FRIDAY MAY  30, 2014
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
1A
LAND  ACQUISITION  ACT (CHAPTER  460)
REGULATIONS  made by the Minister of Lands and Land Development under Section 63(2)(E) of the Land Acquisition Act,
(Chapter 460) and approved by the Parliament of Sri Lanka on 18th February 2014.
These regulations shall be effective only in respect of the below mentioned projects.
JANAKA BANDARA THENNAKOON,
Minister of Lands and Land Development.
on 22nd  May, 2014,
At Colombo.
Regulations
1. These regulations may be cited as the Land Acquisition (Payment of Compensation) Regulations 2013.
2. (1) The basis of assessing the market value or the compensation for any injurious affection caused by the
acquisition of any land for any of the projects specified in paragraph (2) (hereinafter referred to as the “Specified Projects”)
in respect of which a notice under Section 7 of the Act has been published, shall be in accordance with the provisions
specified in regulations 3, 4, 5 and 6 of these regulations.
(2) The Specified Projects, for the purposes of these regulations shall be -
(a) Colombo - Katunayake Expressway Project ;
(b) Colombo Outer Circular Highway Project ;
(c) Southern Transport Development Project ;
(d) Colombo - Kandy Road Project ;
(e) Orugodawatta - Ambatale Road Project ;
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
 This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
3—PG 2065

<!-- page 2 -->

2 A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.05.2014
(f) New Kelani Bridge Approach (Kelanimulla to Angoda, Koswatta Road) Project ;
(g) Mattakkuliya Bridge Approach (Central Road and Aluth Mawatha) Project ;
(h) Matara - Kataragama Railway Construction Project ;
(i) Daduru Oya Reservoir Project ;
(j) Rathnapura - Balangoda Road Project ;
(k)  Balangoda - Bandarawela  Road Project ;
(l) Padeniya - Anuradhapura  Road Project ;
(m) Thambalagamuwa - Kinniya Road Project ;
(n) 5/2 Bridge Katugasthota - Kandy - Jaffna  Road  ;
(o) Matara - Godagama Road ;
(p) Horana - Pamankada Road ;
(q) Southern Expressway - Madurugoda Road ; and
(r) Kirulapna - Godagama Road
3. (1) The market value of any land or the compensation for any injurious affection caused by the acquisition of any
land for a Specified Project, shall be assessed by the Land Acquisition and Re-settlement Committees (hereinafter referred to
as the “ LARC ”) appointed for he respective Divisional Secretary’s Division in which the land acquired is located.
(2) LARC shall consist of the following members appointed by the Minister -
(a) the Divisional Secretary or Assistant Divisional Secretary of the relevant Divisional Secretary’s
Division ;
(b) the Surveyor General or his nominee ;
(c) the Chief Valuer or his nominee ; and
(d) an officer not below the rank of the Assistant Secretary nominated by the Minister to whom the subject
of the respective Specified Project has been assigned.
(3) Every person affected by the acquisition of relevant land shall be given an opportunity to make their
representation at the proceedings of the LARC.
4 (1) The LARC shall in determining the market value and the compensation to be paid for any land referred to in
these regulations, take into consideration the criterions and factors specified in paragraph (2)
(2) (a) Written Claims :-
Written claims submitted by the owner of the land or the affected persons ;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.05.2014
3 A
(b) Lands :-
(i) The payment for the land shall include replacement cost as determined by the Chief Valuer and an
ex-gratia payment amounting to the difference between the statutory compensation and the
replacement ;
(ii) If a remaining portion of a land after acquisition (other than agricultural land) is incapable of being
utilized as a separate entity. LARC may give an allowance to the owner if he wishes to retain the
extra portion ;
(iii) In case of agriculture lands if the remainder is physically not possible for cultivation, the LARC may
decide whether to acquire or make a payment for the balance extent. Reasonable time shall be given
to harvest perennial crops where payment will not be made on the market value ;
(iv) all ex-gratia payments shall be determined by the LARC ;
(c) Encroachers on State Lands :-
(i) No payment shall be made to the Encroachers on State Lands :
Provided however, a payments for the improvement of the land shall  be made ;
(ii) The provisions of this regulation shall apply only to the encroachers who were in occupation prior
to the date of the Order under Section 2 of the Act is published ;
(d) Paddy Lands :-
An ex-gratia payment shall be made for paddy lands based on the difference between the statutory
compensation and the amount equivalent to ten per cent of the market value of the land as computed by
the Chief Valuer ;
(e) Buildings and Structures :-
The replacement cost for the buildings and structures (without depreciation) shall be an amount as
determined by the LARC considering the following factors :-
(i) for parts of a structure ; the floor area to be considered for payment up to the structural points ;
(ii) remaining portions of the structure : if the remaining portion is not suitable for further usage LARC
shall pay compensation for that part as well.
(f) Rent controlled premises under the Rect Act : Residential premises and Business premises :-
Ex-gratia payment for the Building shall be the deference between the statutory compensation and the
replacement cost and  shall be paid according to the following manner :-
Period of occupancy by the occupant Percentage
Occupant Owner
1. > 20 years 75% 25%
2. 10 to 20 years 50% 50%
3. 5 to 10 years 25% 75%
4. <  5  years 10% 90%

<!-- page 4 -->

4 A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.05.2014
(g) Loss of Business :-
Payments shall be made according to the categorization of businesses in the following manner :-
Business Category Entitlement
1. Informal (non-income tax payer)
2. Formal (income tax payer)
(h) Loss of Livelihood :-
Those who are self-employed and are temporarily affected due to loss of income shall be entitled for a
loss of livelihood payment as determined by the LARC.
(j) Allowance for Vulnerable Families :-
An extra payment shall be paid for families in a vulnerable situation as determined by the LARC ;
(k) Loss of Wages of Employment :-
Persons who have lost the wages of employment due to the acquisition of their places of employment
shall be entitled for a payment as may be determined by the LARC.
(m) Ex-gratia payment for handing over possession of properties before the deadline :-
(i) If the affected persons hand over the possession of a cultivated land or a residential building
before the date specified by the Acquiring officer they shall be entitled for an ex-gratia payment
determined by the LARC ;
(ii) Temporary Accommodation :-
If the physical possession of the property is required to be taken before the date specified by the
Acquiring officer a rent allowance shall be paid to the affected persons, based on the floor area of
the house in which they were resident prior to the date of the order published under Section 2 of the
Act, in the following manner :-
House category Municipal Urban Pradeshiya
(on Floor Area) Council Area Council Area Sabha Area
(sq. ft) (Rs.) (Rs.) (Rs.)
1. < 500 50,000 40,000 20,000
2. 500 - 750 60,000 50,000 30,000
3. 750 - 1,000 75,000 60,000 40,000
4. >1,000 100,000 75,000 50,000
Rs. 15,000 or up to 3 months net income whichever is higher,
if the income is ascertained through supporting documents.
If the business is completely lost up to 3 years net average
adjusted profit of the years immediately preceding the date
of the publication of the notice under Section 2 of the Act on
production of the tax declaration documents.
If the business is temporarily disrupted payment shall be
determined by the LARC.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.05.2014
5 A
(iii) Shifting Allowance :-
If the physical possession of the property is required to be taken before the date specified by the
Acquiring officer a shifting allowance shall be paid to the affected persons, based on the floor area
of the house in which they were resident prior to the date of the Order published under Section 2 of
the Act, in the following manner :-
House category Payment
(on Floor Area) (Rs)
(sq. ft)
1. < 500 50,000
2. 500 - 750 75,000
3. 750 - 1,000 100,000
4. >1,000 150,000
(n) Payment for re-location :-
(i) Every re-settler affected by the acquisition with a title to the land acquired is entitled for a block of
land not exceeding an extent of 20 perches from a fully serviced re-settlement site equivalent to the
unimproved land value determined by the LARC or to cash payment applicable for self-re location
as specified in paragraph (p) ;
(ii) Where the LARC deems that it is reasonable and justifiable, the encroachers of state lands, may be
offered a block of land up to an extent of 10 perches from a re-settlement site or to cash payment
applicable for self-re location as specified in paragraph (p) ;
(iii) Sub-families living in the same house registered under the same register of electors or separate
registers of electors, at least 3 years prior to the date of the order published under Section 2 of the
Act, are entitled for a block of land up to an extent of 10 perches from a re-settlement site or to 50 per
cent of the cash payment, applicable for self-re location as specified in paragraph (p) ;
Provided however, the entitlement for lands referred to in this paragraph shall be subject to the
availability of lands in a particular area ;
Provided further, a cash payment applicable for self re-location may be made to a re-settler, in
addition to a block of land entitled by such re-settler under this paragraph, if the LARC deems
it to be appropriate ;
(p) Self re-location :-
(i) The persons affected by the prospective acquisition who wish to self re-locate shall be entitled for
a payment specified in sub paragraph (iii) in lieu of a block of land depending on the area in which
the property to be acquired is situated ;
(ii) Sub-families registered under the same register of electors or separate registers of electors, living in
the same house for a period at least 3 years, prior to the date of the order published under Section
2 of the Act, are entitled to 50 per cent of the cash payment, applicable for self re-location as
specified in sub paragraph (iii) ;

<!-- page 6 -->

6 A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.05.2014
(iii) Municipality Areas Rs. 500,000
Urban Council Areas and Rs. 300,000
Pradeshiya Sabha Areas in
Metropolitan and Board
of Investment Areas
Pradeshiya Sabha Areas Rs. 150,000
(3) (a) All ex-gratia payments shall be as determined by the LARC
(b) No interest shall be paid for any ex-gratia payment.
5. (1) The owner of a land referred to in regulation 3(1), aggrieved by  the assessment made by LARC on the market
value and the compensation to be paid for such acquisition, may appeal in writing, to the Land Acquisition and Re-settlement
Special Committee (hereinafter referred to as the “Super LARC”)
(2) The super LARC shall consist of the following members appointed by the Minister :-
(a) the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister to whom the respective subject of the Specified Project is
assigned or his representative ;
(b) the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister to whom the subject of Land and Land Development is
assigned or his representative ;
(c) the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister to whom the subject of Finance is assigned or his
representative ;
(d) the Chief Valuer or his representative ;
(e) the Survey General or his representative ;
(f) the Chairman or Chief Executive Officer of the respective Specified Project or a representative nominated
by him.
(3) The Super LARC may after careful consideration of all the relevant factors
(a) affirm the assessment made by the LARC under these regulations ; or
(b) revise the assessment made by the LARC by increasing or decreasing the amount of the assessment ;
               and inform such decision to the appellant in writing forthwith.
6. For the avoidance of doubts it is hereby declared that the provisions of Land Acquisition Regulations, 2008,
published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 1596/12 of April 7, 2009, shall not apply for the determination of the market value or
the compensation for any injurious affection caused by the acquisition of any land for any of the Specified Projects.
7. For the purposes of these regulations -
“Act” means Land Acquisition Act (Chapter 460) ;
“Acquiring Officer” has the same meaning as in the Act ;

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.05.2014
7 A
“Disabled person” has the same meaning as in the Protection of the Rights of the Persons with Disabilities Act,
No. 28 of 1996 ;
“Families in a vulnerable situation” means women headed families, families with disabled persons and families
with persons older than sixty years ;
“Minister” means the Minister to whom the subjects of Lands and Land Development is assigned ;
“Paddy land” means the lands which are being cultivated with paddy or lands that have been prepared for
cultivation of paddy or lands that have been used for cultivation of paddy at least five years prior to the
date of the notice published under Section 7 of the Act. ;
“Register of electors” has the same meaning as in the Registration of Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980 ;
“Rent Act” means the Rent Act, No. 7 of 1972 ;
“Replacement Cost” means the prevailing cost involved in replacing an asset at the time of acquisition and
includes fair market value, transaction costs, interest accrued, transitional and restoration costs and any
other applicable payments. If any, but the depreciation of assets and structures shall not be taken into
account. Where there are no active market conditions, replacement cost is equivalent to delivered cost of
all building materials, labour cost for construction and any transaction or relocation costs.
“Statutory compensation” means the market value and the compensation determined in terms of the provisions
of Section 45 of the Act.
06-382
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.