

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 23.09.2016
231
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
Page 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
  
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 232
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 1"986- 2016 iema;eïn¾ ui 23 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'09'23                                                                                                                                       
        No. 1,986 - Friday,  SEPtEMbER 23,  2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
231
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  14th  October, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on  30th September, 2016.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
15th September, 2016.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
              Note .- Rajitha Kodithuwakku Foundation  (Incorporation)   Bill was  published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of 
the Democratic  Socialist   Republic of Sri Lanka of June 17, 2016. 
N. B.-  Part IV (A) of the  Gazette No. 1985 of 15.09.2016 was not  Published. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 23.09.2016
232
miscellaneous Lands notices
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/29359.
Provincial  Land  Commissioner's  No.:NCP/PLC/L6/15/04.
noTIfIcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe   LAnD  
ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It is hereby notified that for the Purpose of Residential,                               
Mrs. Nelawasan bopage  Nalani  has  requested on  lease a state 
land containing in extent about Perhes 14.5 out of  extent Marked 
and the  tracing  No. t. S. P. P. 14b and  situated in the  village of  
Thimbirikadawala with  belongs to the  Grama Niladhari Division 
of 296, Isurunmuniya  coming  within the area of   authority of  
Nuwaragama Palatha Central Divisional Secretariat in the District 
of  Anuradhapura. 
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :-
 
On the North by : Road  Reservation   ;
On the East by : Land of Mr. N. b. Jayarathna ;
On the  South by :  Road  Reservation ;
On the West by :  Land of Mr. Sudan Senaka.   
03. the land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the 
land subject to other Government approved conditions   : - 
 (a) Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty  (30) Years (from 15.06.1995 
on wards);
    The Annual Rent  of the Lease.– 4% of the undeveloped 
value  land as per valuation of the Chief  Valuer for the Year 
1995 ;
  Penalty .- 4% of the developed value of the  land ;
 (b) the  lessee  must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease,  develop the said land  in such a manner as to 
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
 
(c) the lessee  must not use this land for any purposes  other 
than for  the purpose of  Residential activities  ;
 (d)  this  lease  must  also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional 
Secretary/Scoping committee/board of Investment of Sri 
Lanka  and   by other  Institutions;
 (e) the buildings constructed must be maintained in a proper 
state of repair ;
 (f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure 
on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within the specified 
time frame the purpose for which the land was obtained, 
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
 (g)  No sub - leasing can be  done  until the expiry  of a minimun 
period  of 05 years from 11.02.2010;
 (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted 
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse;
 (i) House construction activities  must  be completed within  
the time frame specified in alienating  lands for  house  
construction purposes and the  failure to do  so will be 
deemed as a lapse of the long  term lease bond  and the 
land will have  to be re - vested in the  government.  
 
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within 
six weeks of the date which this  notice is published  in the  
Gazette  
to the effect that this land must not be given on lease, the land will 
be leased out as requested. 
  L. P. Chamika Subodhini,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
 "Mihikatha Medura",   Land Secretariat,
No. 1200/6, Rajamalwatta Road, battaramulla.
23rd September, 2016.
09-965
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/35883.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.: NCP/PLC/L/9/Mt/04. 
noTIfIcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe  LAnD  
ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It  is hereby notified that for the Agricultural Purpose of,                            
Mr. Ganihiachchi Kankanamalage Kamal Priyantha  Wimalasena   
has  requested on lease a  State land containing in extent about  02 
Acre out of   extent marked Lot No. - as  depicted in the  tracing  
No.- situated in the  village of Wellamorana with belongs to the  
Grama Niladhari Division of No. 579, Namalwewa  coming within  
the area of authority  of  Mihinthale Divisional Secretariat in the 
District of Anuradhapura.

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 23.09.2016
233
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
 
On the North by : Katukelliyawa Wewa Reservation  ;
On the East by : Second Road Reservation  ;
On the  South by :  Second  Road Reservation  ;
On the West by :  Katukelliyawa Wewa  Reservation.
03. the land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the 
land subject to other Government approved conditions and the 
following conditions : - 
 (a) Term  of the Lease.– Thirty  (30) Years,  ( from 03.08.2016);
   The Annual  Rent of the Lease.– 4% of the   undeveloped   
value  of the land as per valuation of the Chief   Valuer 
for the year 2016. this amount of the lease must be  
quinquennially revised in such a manner that the amount 
as a result of the revision will be  not less than  50% of the  
amount that just preceded.
Premium . - treble of the annual amount of the  lease ;
 (b) the  lessee must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop  the said  land, in such a manner as to 
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
 (c) the lessee must not use this land for any purposes  other 
than for the  purpose of  Agricultural  Activities  ;
 (d)  this   lease  must  also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional 
Secretary/Scoping committee/board of Investment  of Sri 
Lanka and  by other  Institutions;
 
 (e) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure 
on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within the specified 
time frame the purpose for which the land was obtained, 
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
 
 (f)  No sub - leasing  can be  done  until the expiry  of a minimum 
period  of 05 years from 23.12.2013  ;
 
 (g) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted 
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse.
 
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within 
six weeks of the date  which this notice is  published in the 
Gazette   
to the effect that this land must not be given on lease, the land will 
be leased out as requested. 
  
L. P. Chamika Subodhini,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
"Mihikatha Medura", Land Secretariat, 1200/6,
Rajamalwatta Road, 
battaramulla.
23rd September, 2016.
09-966 
PRINtED  At  tHE  DEPARtMENt  OF  GOVERNMENt  PRINtING,  SRI  LANkA.