

<!-- page 1 -->

SARAVANAPAVAN  FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Saravanapavan Foundation
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
A
BILL
Presented by Hon. M. A. Sumanthiran, M. P. for Jaffna District
on 25th October, 2016
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs.  8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
——————
——————
[Bill No. 143]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on September 26, 2016)

<!-- page 2 -->

Saravanapavan Foundation
(Incorporation)
1
5
10
15
2—PL 010144—300 (08/2016)
20
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SARAVANAPAVAN FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an Society  called and known as the
“Saravanapavan Foundation” has heretofore been formed in
Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out its
objects and transacting all matters connected  with the said
Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted  several objects and
matters for which it was established,  and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be expedient to grant the said
application :
BE it  therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Saravanapavan
Foundation  (Incorporation) Act, No.    of  2016.
2. From and after  date of commencement of this Act, such
and so many persons as now are members of the
“Saravanapavan Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or  shall  hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be  a body corporate,
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of the
“Saravanapavan Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued, with
full power and authority to have and  use a common seal and  to
alter  the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to encourage and assist persons to commence business
in the agricultural import, export, commercial and
other sectors and to provide such persons with the
necessary training and technical assistance;
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the
Saravanapavan
Foundation.
25 General
objects of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Saravanapavan Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to assist projects for the protection, management and
conservation of the environment;
(c) to collaborate with any other institution or
organization, whether foreign or local, having objects
similar to those of the Corporation;
(d) to sponsor and conduct, conferences, seminars,
workshops, group studies and lectures in Sri Lanka or
abroad in furtherance of the objects of the
Corporation;
(e) to formulate and implement, schemes for cottage
industries and self employments;
(f) to establish libraries, archives and centres to preserve
and to protect the cultural heritage of all communities
in Sri Lanka;
(g) to promote welfare activities for the benefit of children,
women and orphans;
(h) to undertake the implementation of development
programmes such as road development and housing
schemes, the construction and maintenance of
hospitals, schools and other educational centers and
community centers;
(i) to assist and co-operate  with the media organizations;
and
(j) to do such other acts and things as may be necessary,
incidental, or conducive to the accomplishment of
all or any of the objects of the Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Saravanapavan Foundation
(Incorporation)
3
5
10
15
20
25
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as  necessary
or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects
of the Corporation or any one of them, including the power—
(a) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations in
cash or kind;
(b) to acquire, in any manner whatsoever and hold, take
or give on lease or hire, rent, sell or otherwise dispose
of any movable or immovable property and construct,
maintain and alter any buildings or works necessary
or convenient for the business of the Corporation;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate and close bank accounts and
borrow or raise money with or without security;
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for the
purposes of the Corporation in such manner as the
Board of Management may determine;
(e) to enter into agreement or contracts with any person,
or body of persons whether incorporated in Sri Lanka
or abroad or with any Government Department,
Corporation, Board, Provincial Council or Local
Authority for the achievement of the objects of the
Corporation;
(f) to determine the fees to be paid in respect of
registration of different categories of membership;
and
(g) appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services of
officers and servants of the Corporation and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the Corporation.
30
General
powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Saravanapavan Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation be administered by a Board of
Directors consisting of the Chairman, the Secretary, Treasurer
and another two members elected in accordance with such
rules.
(2) The Board of Management of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Directors of the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this
Act.
(3) A member of the Board of Directors other than the
Chairman shall unless he vacates his office earlier by death
or resignation, hold office for a period of five years. Where
due to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Board of
Directors a new member shall be appointed to fill such
vacancy and such a new member shall hold office for a period
of five years.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by the votes  not less than
two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make rules,
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other
written law, for the admission, withdrawal or expulsion of
members, the election of the Board of Management, for the
conduct of the duties of the office bearers, agents, officers
and servants of the Corporation, for the procedure to be
followed in the transaction of business by the Corporation
and Board of Management and generally, for the
management of the affairs of the Corporation and the
accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made may
at a like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added to,
amended or rescinded.
(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
30
Management
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Saravanapavan Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund. All
moneys received by way of gifts, bequests, donations,
transfers,  subscriptions, contributions, or fees shall be
deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or more
Banks as the Board of Management shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund of the Corporation,
all such sums of money as may be required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in carrying out the
objects of the Corporation.
(3) The moneys and property of the Corporation
whosoever derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of the objects as setforth herein and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or otherwise, to any member of the
Corporation.
8. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor as  may be determined by the Board.
In this section, “qualified auditor” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by  the Council of such
institute; or
5
10
15
20
25
Fund of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
Audit.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Saravanapavan Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or of any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
institute.
9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Chairman and the Secretary who shall sign their names on
the instrument in token of their presence and such signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a
witness.
10. All debts and liabilities of the foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable
to the foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.
11. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law,
to take and  hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being
of the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation but shall be given or
20
Seal of the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Corporation.
25
30

<!-- page 8 -->

Saravanapavan Foundation
(Incorporation)
7
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
transferred to some other Foundation or Foundations having
objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which is or
are, by its rules thereof prohibited from distributing any income
or property among its or their members. Such Foundation or
Foundations shall be determined by the Board at or
immediately before the dissolution of the Corporation.
13. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of annual subscription payable by
him to the Corporation.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other person, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Limitation of
liabilities of
members.
5
10
15

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Saravanapavan Foundation
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .