

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
SRI LANKA ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION
(INCORPORATION) ACT, N o. 33 OF 2011
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 19th July, 2011]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 5.25 Postage : Rs. 10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 22, 2011

<!-- page 2 -->

1Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)
Act, No. 33 of 2011
2-PL 004990—3,090 (07/2010)
[Certified on 19th July, 2011]
L.D.—O. Inc. 14/2009
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  SRI LANKA  ECONOMIC  ASSOCIATION
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the
“Sri Lanka Economic Association” has heretofore been
formed as a limited liability company under the Companies
Act, No. 17 of 1982 and has made an application to re-register
under Act, No. 7 of 2007 for the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting all objects and matters
connected with the said Association according to the rules
agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Economic
Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 33 of 2011.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Sri Lanka Economic Association (hereinafter referred to as
“the Association”) and such other persons shall hereafter
be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby
constituted, shall be a body corporate with perpetual
succession under the name and style of the “Sri Lanka
Economic Association”  (hereinafter referred to as “the
Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued with
full power and authority to have and to use a common seal
and alter the same at its pleasure.
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation of
the Sri Lanka
Economic
Association.

<!-- page 3 -->

Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)
Act, No. 33 of 2011
2
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to undertake, promote and facilitate studies in the
field of Economics within and outside Sri Lanka;
(b) to organize and promote research in the field of
Economics and undertake studies and research
projects on contract from government, private and
international agencies or institutions;
(c) to plan and organize teaching and training
programmes in the field of  Economics;
(d) to train students and others in research methodology
with the idea of promoting knowledge and
awareness in subjects relevant to economics;
(e) to assist in the formulation of effective socio-
economic policies;
(f) to prepare and submit reports on issues relating to
economic and social development or to prepare
reports on studies relating to economic
development;
(g) to promote understanding, co-operation and
friendship with similar associations within and
outside Sri Lanka; and
(h) to undertake, promote and conduct on its own
initiative or in collaboration with local or foreign
associations such surveys and studies on economic
and social development in the international sphere
and more particularly in Sri Lanka.
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)
Act, No. 33 of 2011
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any
other written law, the Corporation shall have the power to
do, perform and execute all such acts and matters as
necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance
of the objects of the Corporation or any one of them,
including the power —
(a) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,
in cash or kind;
(b) to acquire, in any manner whatsoever and hold,
take or give on lease or hire, rent, sell or otherwise
dispose of, any movable or immovable property
and construct, maintain and alter any buildings or
works necessary or convenient for the business of
the Corporation;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate and close bank accounts and
borrow or raise money with or without security;
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for
the purposes of the Corporation in such manner as
the Council of Management may determine;
(e) to enter into agreements or contracts with any person
or body of persons for the implementation of these
objects;
(f) to determine the fees to be paid in respect of
registration of different categories of membership;
and
(g) appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities
as may be determined by the Corporation.
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)
Act, No. 33 of 2011
4
5. (1) The management, control and administration
of the Corporation shall, subject to the provisions of
this Act and any rule that may be made under section 6,
vest  in a Council of Management (hereinafter referred to as
“the Council”).
(2) The first Council of the Corporation shall consist of
the members of the Council of the Association holding office
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
  6. (1)  It shall be lawful for the  Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions  of this Act or any
other written law , for all or any of the following matters :—
(a) the classification of membership, fees payable by
each class of members, admission, withdrawal,
expulsion or resignation of members and for the
maintaining of a register of members;
(b) the election of office bearers of the Council or
vacation of or removal from office and the powers,
duties and functions of the office bearers;
(c) the appointment, powers, duties and functions and
terms and conditions of the various officers, agents
and servants of the Corporation;
(d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Council, the
Corporation and any sub-committee thereof,
including the quorum therefor and the conduct of
business thereat;
(e) the qualification and disqualification for members
of the Council and the Corporation; and
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)
Act, No. 33 of 2011
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation for the accomplishment of the
objects of the Corporation.
(2) The rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all time be
subject to the rules of the Corporation made under this section.
7. (1) With effect from the date of commencement of
this Act—
(a) all property, movable or immovable, of the
Association;
(b) all rights, powers, privileges and interests of the
Association and all the liabilities of the
Association;
(c) all books, accounts and documents of the
Association;
shall vest absolutely in the Corporation.
(2) With effect from the date of commencement of this
Act and without prejudice to the generality of
subsection (1)—
(a) all debts due to and subscriptions and fees payable
to the Association shall be paid to the Corporation;
(b) all liabilities of the Association subsisting on the
day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act shall be deemed to be
the liabilities of the Corporation;
Vesting of the
property etc. of
the Association
in the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)
Act, No. 33 of 2011
6
(c) all officers and servants of the Association on the
day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act shall be deemed to be
officers and servants of the Corporation;
(d) all contracts and agreements entered into for the
purposes of the Association and subsisting on the
day immediately preceding date of commencement
of this Act shall be deemed to be contracts and
agreements entered into by the Corporation;
(e) all actions and legal proceedings instituted by or
against the Association and pending on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act shall be continued and enforced as legal
proceedings instituted by, or against, the
Corporation.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and
it shall consist of all moneys  received by way of gifts,
testamentary dispositions, grants, donations,  contributions
or fees in cash or kind.
(2) All moneys received shall be deposited in the name
of the Corporation in one or more banks and be invested in
any suitable manner to achieve the objects of the Corporation
as may be decided by the Council.
(3) All expenditure incurred by the Corporation in the
exercise, performance and discharge of the powers, duties
and functions of the Corporation shall be paid out of the
fund of the Corporation.
9. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor as may be determined by the Council.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
Audit.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)
Act, No. 33 of 2011
(3) In this section “qualified auditor” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law , possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners,
being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law possesses a certificate or parctice
as an Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute.
10. All debts and liabilities of the Association existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation and all debts due to,
subscriptions and contributions payable to the Association
on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purpose
of this Act.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation
there remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and
liabilities, any property whatsoever, such property shall
not be distributed among the members of the Corporation
but shall be given or transferred to some other institute
or institutes having objects similar to those of the
Corporation, and which is or are by the rules thereof
prohibited from distributing any income or property
among its or their members. Such institution or institutions
shall be determined by the Council at or immediately before
the dissolution of the Corporation.
12. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Secretary or a member of the Council as may be duly
authorised by the Council and another member of the Council
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Debts due and
payable to the
Association.

<!-- page 9 -->

Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)
Act, No. 33 of 2011
8
who shall sign their names on the instrument in token of
their presence and such signing shall be independent of the
signing of any person as a witness.
13. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of annual subscription payable by
him to the Corporation.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
Limitation of
liability of
members.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)
Act, No. 33 of 2011
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.