

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2033
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2030
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"984 – 2016 iema;eïn¾ ui 09 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'09'09
No. 1,984 –  fRiday ,  sEPtEmbER 09, 2016
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 30th  september, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th  september, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
B. K. S. Ra vindRa,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
21st June, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2027
Note.— medical (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of June 10, 2016.
N. B.— Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 1983 of 02.09.2016 was not published. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2028
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2029
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2030
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrars marriages, births and Deaths in Tamil medium
 
tRiNcomaLEE  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrars of marriages, births and deaths in the divisions set out in the 
schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said births, deaths and marriages Registration divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or 
before 10th october, 2016.
 E. m. 
gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
23rd august, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
trincomalee seruwila Post of Registrar of births, deaths district secretary/additional
    and marriages (tamil medium) of  Registrar General,  district
   Lingapuram division  secretariat, trincomalee. 
09–335
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrars marriages, births and Deaths 
 
mataRa  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrars of marriages, births and deaths in the divisions set out in the 
schedule hereto.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2031
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said births, deaths and marriages Registration divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or 
before 10th october, 2016.
 E. m. 
gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
23rd august, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
    Applications are called Applications should be sent
matara Kirinda Puhulwella Post of Registrar of marriages (General) district secretary/additional
    in Gangabadapaththuwa and births   Registrar General,  district
   and deaths of Kirinda East division  secretariat, matara. 
09–253
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of muslim marriages 
aNuRadhaPuRa  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrars of muslim marriages in the divisions set out in the schedule 
hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said muslim marriages Registration divisions and should 
be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. muslim males only can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2032
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. 
07. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
10th october, 2016.
 E. m. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla,
24th august, 2016. 
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Division and Post  for which Address to which
  Division  Applications are called Applications should be sent
anuradhapura Palagala Post of Registrar of muslim marriages district secretary/additional
    in balaluwewa area of Kalagam   Registrar General, district   
   Palatha division  secretariat, anuradhapura. 
09–336
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of muslim marriages 
tRiNcomaLEE  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrars of muslim marriages in the divisions set out in the schedule 
hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said muslim marriages Registration divisions and should 
be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. muslim males only can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2033
07. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
10th october, 2016.
 E. m. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla,
23rd august, 2016. 
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division  Applications are called Applications should be sent
trincomalee thambalagamuwa Post of Registrar of muslim marriages district secretary/additional
    of mollipothana division   Registrar General, district   
      secretariat, trincomalee. 
09–334
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
fOOD  COmmISSIONER’S  DEPARTmENT
Open Competitive Examination for the 
Recruitment of Supervisory management 
Assistant (Technical Service Category) Inspector 
of Works Grade III of food Commissioner’s 
Department 2016  
aPPLicatioNs are called from qualified citizens of 
sri Lanka for the open competitive Examination to for 
the recruitment of one post of supervisory management 
assistant (t echnical service category) inspector of 
Works  Grade iii of food commissioner's department. 
the applications duly prepared using both sides of a4 
papers in accordance with the specimen application 
produced at the end of this Gazette Notification should be 
sent to food commissioner’s department, No.330, union 
Place, colombo 02” under registered cover to reach on or 
before the following date.  the words “open competitive 
Examination for the Recruitment to the Post of inspector 
of Works Grade iii” should be clearly written at the top left 
corner of the envelope.
(a) the closing date for calling applications is 30th of 
september 2016.
Note.– complaints against a loss or delay of an 
application or a letter in its relation in post 
will not be  entertained. applicants themselves 
amendment Notice
IRRIGATION DEPARTmENT 
 
ministry of Irrigation and Water Resources 
management 
oPEN comPEtitiVE ExamiNatioN foR thE 
REcRuitmENt to thE Posts of thaKshaNa 
sahayaKa (iRRiGatioN) aNd thaKshaNa 
sahayaKa (mEchaNicaL) - 2016
REfERENcE to above examination published in Gazette 
No. 1980 dated 12.08.2016 under the Notice No. 08-297/2, 
under the section No. 6.0/sub-section 6.2 vacational 
qualification. 
Name of the post has been incorrectly published as 
technical assistant, which should be corrected to read 
as "thakshana sahayaka'. 
 Eng. s. s. L. 
Weerasinghe, 
 director General of irrigation. 
irrigation department, 
colombo 07,
on the dated 24th of august, 2016. 
09–405

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2034
have to bear any loss or damage occurred upon 
delaying the applica tions till the closing date of 
applications.
1. Method of Recruitment to the Service .– A qualified 
candidate will be selected for the post of inspector of 
Works Grade iii on the basis of order of marks obtains at 
the written examination conducted by the commissioner 
General of department of technical Education and 
training.
2. Conditions of Recruitment to the Service :
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable, 
should contribute to the Widows'/Widowers' 
and orphans' Pensions scheme.
 (ii) the period of probation is three (03) years 
and the First Efficiency Bar should be passed 
within the probationary period of three (03) 
years.
 (iii) Level II of proficiency in Second Official 
Language should be obtained, before the 
completion of five (05) years of the appointment 
in terms of the Public administrative circular 
01/2014.
 (iv) this appointment subject to procedural rules 
of Public service commission, Establishment 
codes and financial Regulations of the 
democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka 
and other orders of the department. 
3. Salary Scale.– in terms of the salary circular of Public 
administration circular 03/2016 and the salary code mN 
03-2016 the salary scale is Rs. 31,040-10 x 445-11x 660-
10 x 730-10 x 750 – Rs. 57,550 (monthly) 
4. (i)  Educational Qualifications :
1. should have passed G.c.E (a/L) Examination 
at one sitting with 03 subjects in science / 
mathematics scheme including credit passes for 
Physics and chemistry subjects.  
And
2. should have passed G.c.E (o/L) Examination 
at one sitting with 06 subjects including credit 
passes for sinhala/ tamil / English , science, 
mathematics and one of the other subjects. 
4.(ii) Professional Qualifications :
1. National diploma in technology offered by 
university of moratuwa or ampara haRdy , 
advanced technological institute ;
 or
2. National diploma in Engineering science offered 
by National apprentice and industrial training 
authority (Naita) ;
 or
3. National higher diploma in Engineering offered 
by the ministry of higher Education ;
 or
4. diploma in technology offered by open 
university of sri Lanka (ousL) ;
 or
5. successful completion of Part i of the Engineering 
Examination conducted by institution of 
Engineers sri Lanka ;
 or
6. Completion of National V ocational Qualification 
(NVQ) Level 6 relevant to the field of the job ; 
 or
7. Other qualifications in technology recognized by 
tertiary and Professional Education commission 
and equal to the above technical qualifications in 
every respect after obtaining information from 
the ministry of higher Education and above 
institutions that issue certificates of technology.  
5. Age Limit.– Not less than 18 years of age and not more 
than 30 years as at the closing date of calling applications. 
6. Physical Requirement.– Every applicant shall be 
physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the Island.  
7. Other Qualifications :
 (i) shall be a citizen of sri Lanka,
 (ii) shall have a excellent moral character,
 (iii)  All the qualifications required for the 
recruitment to this post shall be completed in 
all respects as at the closing date of calling 
applications in the Gazette notification. 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2035
8. Written examination :
examination  Time   Maximum Pass Syllabus
 Paper Hours Marks Marks
1. test on subject 3 hours 100 40% basic concepts on construction of buildings, desinging 
  related       plans, maintenance (air conditioning, plumbing, 
  t echnology      electricity) reading survey plans and employee   
       management of a work site 
2. i. Q. test 1 hour 100 40% General Knowledge
8. (i) General Interview.–  the interview will be held 
only to check qualifications marks are not given. 
9. Conditions of the examination :
 (i) admission cards for the candidates who 
have sent duly filled applications will be 
issued by director General, department of 
technical Education and training. candidate 
should present the attested admission card 
to the supervisor of the examination hall. No 
candidate of not presenting the admission 
card would be permitted to appear for the 
examination. 
 (ii) No travelling allowance or any other allowance 
borne by candidates to sit for this examination 
will be reimbursed. 
 (iii) candidates will be required to prove their 
identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor. for this purpose ;
 (a) the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registrations of Persons ;
  or
 (b) a  valid Passport is only accepted. 
 (iv) the Examination will be conducted in the 
sinhala, the tamil and the English medium 
and the candidate will not be permitted to 
change the medium for the examination given 
in his or her application.
 (v) food commissioner will allow all the 
candidates who have paid prescribed 
examination and presented duly filled 
applications on or before the closing date of 
calling applicati ons to sit for the competitive 
programme on the prior assumption that only 
the persons who possess qualifications in the 
Gazette notification. Sitting for the exam will 
not be considered that candidate is qualified for 
the post. 
 (vi) candidates subject to the rules and regulations 
regarding holding this examination enacted 
by director General, department of technical 
Education and training. 
 (vii) this examination would be held only in 
the examination centers in colombo by 
Examinations and Evaluation division of 
the department of technical Education and 
training. 
10. Method of sending Applications  :
 (i) applications should to be prepared by using 
a4 (24cmx 29cm) size papers as item number 
01 to 04 should be in the first page and next 
item from the item  number 05 should be in the 
other pages and it should be clearly filled in 
candidate’s own hand writing. 
 (ii) heading in sinhala medium applications 
should be in English as well   in addition to 
sinhala, and in tamil medium applications in 
English as well   in addition to tamil.
 (iii) applications which are not complying with the 
specimen form and receive after the closing 
date of accepting of applications will not be 
accepted. applicants are advised to post the 
applications earlier to avoid delays in the mail. 
 (iv) applications should be in the language in which 
the candidate is eligible to sit the examination.
 (v) a deposit of Rs. 500/- be made in favour of 
“food commissioner, bank of ceylon, union 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2036
Place account No. 7042667 as the examination 
fee from any branch of bank of ceylon in the 
island. the receipt obtained for this payment 
should be firmly pasted with one edge to the 
place specified in the application form. It is 
advisable if a photocopy of the receipt is kept 
with the candidate. the examination fee is 
not refundable under any circumstances and 
money orders and stamps are not accepted. 
 (vi) candidate’s signature in the application should 
be attested by a Principal of a Government 
school/ Grama Niladhari of the division, 
a Justice of the Peace/ commissioner of 
oaths, attorney at-Law, Notary Public, 
Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces, 
An Officer Holding a Gazetted Post on the 
Police Service ,Permanent Staff Officer of 
public or provincial public service whose 
annual initial salary is  Rs. 240,360/- or above 
or chief incumbent of a buddhist temple or a 
priest of other religion who bears considerable 
status.
 (vii) Employees of Provincial and state services 
should send their applications through the 
head of their department. 
 (viii) if it any information in the application detected 
as false actions will be taken for dismissal from 
service.  
11. in a case of any inconsistency among the sinhala, 
tamil and English texts of this Gazette notification, the 
sinhala text shall prevail. 
12. decision of the food commissioner would be the 
final decision regarding any matter not herein included. All 
the applicants are bound to abide by the general rules and 
regulations in the Gazette notification. 
 J. 
krishnamurthy,
 food commissioner.
  
food commissioner’s department,
No. 330,
union Place,
colombo 02,
09th september, 2016. 
specimen application Form
wdydr flduidßia fomd¾;fïka;=fõ wëlaIK 
l<ukdlrK iyldr ;dlaIK fiajd .Kfha jev 
mÍlaIl ;k;=frys iii jk fY%a‚h i|yd n|jd .ekSfï 
újD; ;r. úNd.h - 2016
open competitive examination For the recruitment 
oF supervisory management assistant (technical 
service category) inspector oF Works grade iii oF Food 
commissioner’s department - 2016
   
     (For Office use Only)
medium :
sinhala  - 2
tamil  - 3
English  - 4
(Write the number  in the relevant cage)
1.0 
 1.1  full Name (in English block capitals) :––––––––.
   (eg. : hERath  mudiyaNsELaGE  samaN  
     KumaRa  hERath )
 1.2  Last name first with initials at the end (in English 
block capitals) :–––––––––––.
  (eg. : hERath  h.m.s.K )
 1.3 full Name :–––––––––––.
  (sinhala / tamil)
 1.4 National identity card No. :
2.0
 2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
  (in English block letters)   
 
 2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
  (sinhala/ tamil)
 
 2.3 address to send the admission card :––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals) 
3.0
 3.1  Gender :             
  male  - 0 
  female - 1
  (Write the number  in the relevant cage)
4.0 4.1  date of birth   :                              
  y ear : month : date :

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2037
 4.2  age as at the closing date of application :
  y ears : months : days :
5.0  Educational Qualifications :
 5.1 details of G.c.E. o/L Examination :
 (i) year and month of Examination :––––––––.
 (ii) index  No. :–––––––––––.
 (iii) Results :
 Subject Grade Subject Grade
1 6
2 7
3 8
4 9
5 10
 5.2 Particulars of G.c.E. a/L Examination:
 (i) year and month of Examination :––––––––.
 (ii) index  No. :–––––––––––.
 (iii) Results :
 Subject Grade Subject Grade
1 3
2 4
 
 5.3 if possess a degree from recognized university:
 (i) university :––––––––––. 
 (ii) degree :––––––––––.
 (iii) admission No. :––––––––––.
6.0   Professional Qualifications:
 (i) –––––––––––––––
 (ii)  –––––––––––––––
7.0 Experience :––––––––––––.
8.0 have you been convicted by a court of Law for any 
offence? :
 * (Tick ( √ ) the relevant cage)  
 y es   No
 (if yes 
explain) :––––––––––.
9.0 Particulars of the  receipt for payment of examination fees:
 (i) branch of bank of ceylon where examination fee was 
paid :–––––––––––––.
 (ii) Paid amount Rs.  :–––––––––––––.
Paste the receipt properly here.
(Keep a photocopy for future reference)
10.0  Certificate of the candidate :
 (a) i, do hereby honourary declare that the particulars 
furnished above are true to the best of my knowledge. 
i agree to bear any loss that may occur because of not 
completing a part of this and completing inaccurately. 
further i declare that i have completed all the parts 
accurately. 
 (b) i know that   the statement in the application which is 
found to be false will make  me liable disqualification 
if the it is detected before the selection and for 
dismissal if detected after the selection. 
 (c) further, i declare that i am bound the rules and 
regulations enacted by director General of the 
department of technical Education and training.
 (d) i shall not change any particulars stated in this 
subsequently.
 ––––––––––––,
 signature of the applicant.
date  :–––––––––––––.
11.0  attestation of the applicant’s signature:
i, certify that i personally know mr./mrs./miss.....................
.............................. Presenting this application he/ she has paid 
the prescribed examination fee, has affixed the receipt in the 
application and he/she put his/her signature before me on............
................................................
 –––––––––––––––––,
 signature of the attester.
date  :–––––––––––––.
full name of the attester  :–––––––––––––.
designation  :–––––––––––––.
address  :–––––––––––––.
(Certify with the official frank)
12.0 If the candidate is in public service certificate of the Head of 
department  :
i, certify that mr./mrs./miss .............................. who has 
applied for this  post is at present employed in this ministry/ 
department/ Provincial council/ institute on permanent/ casual/ 
temporary basis he/ she can be/cannot be released from the 
present post. 
    
 –––––––––––––––––,
 signature of the head of the department    
 or the Authorized Officer.
date :–––––––––––––.
full name of the department head  :–––––––––––––.
designation  :–––––––––––––.
address  :–––––––––––––.
(Certify with the official frank)
..............................................................
09–435
 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2038
fIRST  EffICIENCy  bAR  ExAmINATION  fOR  OffICERS  IN  SRI  LANkA  
ADmINISTRATIVE  SERVICE,  SRI  LANkA  ENGINEERING  SERVICE,  SRI  LANkA  
SCIENTIfIC SERVICE, SRI  LANkA  ARChITECTS' SERVICE,  SRI LANkA ACCOuNTANTS' 
AND SRI LANkA PLANNING SERVICE -  2016 (I) 
it is hereby notified that First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka 
Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service, Sri Lanka Architects' Service, Sri Lanka Accountants' Service and Sri 
Lanka Planning service 2016(I), shall be held in colombo during weekends from 22nd October 2016 to 11th December 
2016, by the director General, sri Lanka institute of development administration, under the supervision and direction of 
ministry of Public administration and management. 
02. Efficiency Bar Examinations which are due to be held in respect of the above services shall be as follows: 
 Serial  Name of the examination  Code  
 No.
      
 1  1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative   SLAS1 
  service     
 2  1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Engineering   SLES 
  service  
 3  1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Scientific Service  SLSS  
 4  1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Architects' SLArS 
  service     
 5  1st  Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka  SLAcS I
  accountants' service  
 6 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service  SLPS I 
 7 other services which can be applied for the above examination other  
   
03. Officers may appear separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, it is 
compulsory to pass the Efficiency Bar Examinations within the prescribed period. 
04. this examination shall be conducted by the director General of sri Lanka institute of development 
administration and the candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by him with regard to conducting 
the examination. candidates shall be subjected to any punishment imposed by the disciplinary authority for violation of 
these rules and regulations. 
05. applications for the examination can strictly be made online through www.slida.lk.  the official web site of 
the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration. It is possible to commence the filling of application by selecting 
the relevant examination from the sub menu “apply online” at the Right side of web site
’s main page. 
filling of applications is strictly allowed during the period from 8.00 a.m. on 09th September, 2016 up to 12.00 
midnight on 23rd September, 2016. 
06. examination Fees .– The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time need not to pay the 
examination fees. at such occasions where a candidate, who has made application, has not sat for the examination even 
after issuing an admission by sri Lanka institute of development administration that should be considered as a sitting 
for the examination. 
For subsequent sittings, officers shall pay the examination fee in the following manner :
Rs. 1,000 shall be paid if it is applied for more than one subject of the First Efficiency Bar Examination. Rs. 500 
shall be paid if it is applied only for one subject of the First Efficiency Bar Examination. 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2039
Examination fee should be paid by any post office all over the island (except sub post offices) to be credited to 
the "sLida" account and the number of the receipt issued shall be indicated in the relevant cages of the application. When 
filling the application for inland telegraphic money order (format 85) for payment of money to 'SLIDA' account, "SLIDA" 
should be mentioned as the recipient. in the meantime, the code name of the relevant examination shall be indicated at the 
place for the recipient's address. (the code names should be as mentioned in section 02).
Further, when crediting money to the account, the application should be filled including the name of the applicant 
as the remitter and the N.i.c. Number of the applicant at the space for the address of the remitter. 
07. Getting Admission for First Efficiency Bar Examination for Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka 
Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service, Sri Lanka Architects' Service, Sri Lanka Accountants' Service and Sri 
Lanka Planning Service.– 
When the application filled online is submitted, the candidate will be issued a confirmation number and the 
candidate shall keep it for further inquiries. candidates will be able to get their admission card of the examination by way 
of following the instructions indicated in the web page to which the candidate will have the access once the application 
duly perfected is sent online. The candidate shall get a printed copy of the admission card and get his signature certified 
by the respective Head of the Department or a deputy officer authorized by the Head for the purpose. The admission card 
certified in this manner shall be submitted to the Supervisor of the examination. A copy of admission card certified as 
for that manner should be submitted to the head of the department for the purpose of attaching to the personal file of the 
candidates. 
Note.– The private address, place of work and the official address shall be clearly included when filling the 
application online. 
08. Any clarification regarding the process for submitting applications can be obtained through the Telephone 
Number 011 - 5980236 of sri Lanka institute of development administration. communication can be made through this 
line from 8.30 a.m up to 4.15 p.m during working days of the week from 09th September, 2016 to 23rd September, 
2016.
09. Head of Departments should grant duty leave for the officers who possess admissions enabling them to sit 
for the examination. If it is required to get their candidature confirmed, it can be done through the Telephone Number 
011- 5980236. candidates shall not be paid traveling expenses for appearing for the examination. 
10. Identity of Candidates.– candidates shall be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they offer. for this purpose one of the following documents should be 
submitted to the supervisor. 
 (i)  the National identity card issued by the department of Registration of  Persons. 
 (ii)  a valid Passport.
the candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the 
discretion of the director General of sri Lanka institute of development administration. 
11. the examination will be held in sinhala, tamil and English media. if it is found that a candidate has appeared 
for the examination in a language medium that he/she is not entitled to, the candidature of such applicant shall be cancelled.  
a candidate shall not be permitted to change the language medium indicated in the application form.
12. Scheme of examination .– Subjects and the syllabus of each Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows. 
duration of each question paper is three (03  hours). at least forty (40) marks shall be obtained for each subject by a 
candidate to pass this Efficiency Bar Examination.
 12.1  1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service (Appendix "G" of Sri 
Lanka administrative service minute published in the Gazette Extraordinary dated 23.12.2013)

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2040
  The subjects of the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination are given below : 
  Serial  Subjects   Duration  Subject 
  Number     Number 
01  Law constitutional  Law  and  03 hours  01 -i
  administrative Law    
    the Legal systems of sri Lanka  03 hours  01 -ii
   criminal Law & Evidence Law  03 hours  01-iii 
02 administration   03 hours  02-i
03  Economics and sociology 03 hours  03 
04  financial management and procurement procedure in the  03 hours  04
 public sector 
12.1.1 Law (100 marks)
  three question papers based on the following: 
  first (1) question paper -
  Constitutional Law and Administrative Law (Subject No. 01-1) 
 
 (i) the structure of the constitution of sri Lanka and the Republic constitution of 1978 with the 
historical development.
 (ii) the Executive, President of the Republic, Prime minister, cabinet of ministers and Public service. 
 (iii) administration of Justice. 
 (iv) Judicial control over administration. 
 (v) directive Principles of the state Policy and fundamental duties. 
 (vi) delegated Legislation.
 (vii) Liability of the state and the Public authorities. 
 (viii) fundamental Rights.
  Second (II) question paper -
  The Legal Systems in Sri Lanka (Subject No. 01-11)
 (i)  administration of Justice
 (ii) the Legal history of sri Lanka 
 (iii)  the organization of the courts 
 (iv)  the courts ordinance (chapter 6) 
 (v)  administration of Justice act, No. 44 of 1971
  Third (III) question paper -
  Criminal Law and Evidence Law (Subject No. 01-III)
 (i)  the Penal code 
 (ii)  the Evidence ordinance. 
a candidate shall be required to obtain 35% of marks for each subject and an average of 40% of the total 
marks allocated for the 03 subjects to pass the subject of law. 
12.1.2. administration (subject No. 02-i -100 marks) 
  a  question paper based on the following: 
 (i)  Office and Field organization and methods of organization.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2041
 (ii)  following chapters of the Establishments code
  chapters i, ii, iii, V , Vi, Vii, ix, xi, xxiii, xxV , xxVi, xxVii, xxViii, xxix, xxx, xxxi, 
xxxii, xxxiii, xLVii and xLViii). Procedural Rules of the Public service commission.
 12.1.3.  Economics and Sociology (Subject No. 03 - 100 marks) 
   this question paper consists of two parts.
   first (1) part - Economics
 (i)  Principles of Economics with special reference to the theories of Value, Production and 
distribution; 
 (ii)  money, Production and distribution
 (iii)  Economic background of sri Lanka and policies, strategies and programmes relevant to economic 
development with special reference to the Economic structure of sri Lanka. 
  Second (II) part - Sociology
 (i)  social structure, organization and functions; 
 (ii)  human Relationships and Groupings; 
 (iii)  Kinship, marriage and the family; 
 (iv)  Rural and urban society; 
 (v)  Social Stratification and Differentiations; 
 (vi)  social control; 
 (vii)  culture, Religion, morals and Values. 
a candidate shall be required to obtain at least twenty (20) marks for each part to pass the 
subject of Economics and sociology. 
12.1.4. financial management and procurement procedure in the public sector (Subject No. 04 - 
   100 marks)  
   a  question paper based on the following :-
   (i) fiscal Governance in sri Lanka 
     constitutional Provisions Relating to Public financial management 
     Parliamentary control over Public finance  
     meaning of fund 
     consolidated fund and its operation 
     object and methods of appropriation 
     contingencies fund 
     other funds and their operation                
     Government Revenue 
     Powers and functions of the minister of finance 
     Powers and functions of the treasury 
     Warrants and imprest authority 
     auditor General, his Powers and functions 
     committee on Public Expenditure (coPa)
     committee on Public Enterprises (coPE)
   (ii) Appointment of Accounting Officers, Chief Accounting Officers and Revenue Accounting  
  Officers and their Powers and Function 
   (iii) internal audit 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2042
   (iv) Public Expenditure Planning and management; 
     Identification of Organizational Objectives and Functions 
     Identification of Government Policies, Goals Targets and Programmes 
     Planning and appraisal of development Projects and Programmes and  Prioritization of 
      them 
     formulation and finalization of annual Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure.
   (v)  making changes of approved Estimates
     implementation of Virement Procedure
     management of Public sector cadres and salaries 
     total cost Estimates and Revisions 
     supplementary Estimates 
   (vi)  Losses and Waivers of government properties 
   (vii)  miscellaneous accounting matters 
   (viii)  delegation of functions for financial management 
   (ix)  custody of Public money and bank accounts Procedure 
   (x)  Government Procurement Process, 
     Government Procurement Procedure
     Government Procurement Guidelines
12.2  First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service (Schedule "iii" of Sri 
Lanka Engineering service minute, published in the Gazette Extraordinary dated 11.11.2013).
 Subjects of the First Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows : 
  Serial No. Subject Duration Subject Number
  01 administration 03 hours 02-ii
  02 financial systems 03 hours 05-i
  03 department/Establishment methodologies since this examinati on is conducted by the  
   head of the institution, particulars in this   
   regard are not published in this notification. 
the minimum marks required to pass each subject is 40.
12.2.1  Administration (Subject No. 02-II - 100 marks)
  a  question paper prepared in relation to the functions of Engineering service based on Volume I of 
the Establishments Code published in 1985 and all the chapters in V olume ii of the Establishment 
code published in 1999 and the Procedural Rules of Public service commission (subjected to timely 
revisions).
 12.2.2 financial systems (Subject No. - 05-I - 100 marks)
  a  question paper prepared in relation to the functions of Engineering service based on all the 
chapters in financial Regulations published in 1992 except chapter ix and x and criteria for National 
Procurement Guidelines (subjected to timely revisions).
12.3  First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Scientific Service (Appendix 4 of Sri Lanka 
Scientific Service Minute, published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 1877/27 dated 28.08.2014) and 
 First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Architects' Service (Appendix 4 of Sri Lanka 
architects' service minute, published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 1877/28 dated 28.08.2014).

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2043
 subjects of these examinations are as follows :
    Subject Duration Subject Number
    financial systems 03 hours 05-ii
    administration 03 hours 02-iii
    department Regulations since this examination is conducted by the  
   head of the institution, particulars in this   
   regard are not published in this notification.
 12.3.1 financial Systems (Subject No. 05-II - 100 marks)
  a  question paper based on the following : 
   (i) fiscal Governance in sri Lanka :
     constitutional Provisions Relating to Public financial management 
     Parliamentary control over Public finance  
     meaning of fund 
     consolidated fund and its operation 
     object and methods of appropriation 
     contingencies fund 
     other funds and their operation                
     Government Revenue 
     Powers and functions of the minister of finance 
     Powers and functions of the treasury 
     Warrants and imprest authority 
     auditor General, his Powers and functions 
     committee on Public Expenditure (coPa)
     committee on Public Enterprises (coPE)
   (ii) Appointment of Accounting Officer, Chief Accounting Officers and Revenue Accounting  
  Officers and their Powers and Function 
   (iii) internal audit 
   (iv) Public Expenditure Planning and management; 
     Identification of organizational objectives and functions 
     Identification of Government Policies, Goals Targets and Programmes 
     Planning and appraisal of development Projects and Programmes and  Prioritization of  
    them 
     formulation and finalization of annual Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure.
   (v)  making changes of approved Estimates :
     implementation of Virement Procedure
     management of Public sector cadres and salaries 
     total cost Estimates and Revisions 
     supplementary Estimates 
   (vi)  Losses and Waivers of Govt. Properties 
   (vii)  miscellaneous accounting matters 
   (viii)  delegation of functions for financial management 
   (ix)  custody of Public money and bank accounts Procedure 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2044
   (x)  Govt. Procurement Process, 
     Government Procurement Procedure
     Government Procurement Guidelines
   Note.– the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject.
 12.3.2 Administration (Subject No. 02-III - 100 marks)
  a  question paper is based on the following. 
 (i) following chapters of the Establishments code
  chapters i, ii, iii, V , Vi, Vii, ix, xi, xxiii, xxV , xxVi, xxVii, xxViii, xxix, xxx, 
xxxi, xxxii, xxxiii, xLVii and xLViii), Procedural rules of Public service commission. 
 (ii) Procedural Rules of Public service commission published in the Gazette extraordinary             
No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009.
  Note.– the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject. 
12.4 First Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers in Grade III of Sri Lanka Accountants' Service : 
(the appendix 03 of the service minute of sri Lanka accountants' service published on the Gazette 
extraordinary dated 10.09.2010 and No. 1670/33)
  Subjects of the First Efficiency bar Examination are as follows : 
 Serial No   Subject  Duration (Hours) Subject No.
01. Government financial Procedures 03 hours 06
02. Law and management 03 hours 07
03. administration 03 hours 02-iV
04. Report writing and Presenting information to management 03 hours 08
 12.4.1 Government financial Regulations :
  candidates will be tested on the application of financial Regulations and treasury circulars in 
government transactions, financial regulations/procedures as they relate to revenue, expenditure, 
foreign aid, annual and supplementary estimates, public debt, supplies, tenders, imprests and 
advances, financial sanctions, the account of the Island, functional and economic classifications, 
programme and performance budgeting, functions of the ministry of finance. the General 
treasury, the ministry of Planning, the secretaries, the auditor General and the Public accounts 
committee. 
 12.4.2 Law and management (subject No. 07) (marks 100)
Law - Definition of Law
  Legal systems of sri Lanka
  courts systems of sri Lanka
  Law of contract
  Law of agency
  sale of goods
  hire purchase
  Negotiable instruments
  Guarantee of securities
  insurance

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2045
management - introduction to management
  functions and skills of managers
  Planning process and setting organizational levels
  organization structure human resource management
  Peformance evaluation Promotion
  motivation
  Leadership
  communication
  decision making
  Conflict resolution
  change management
  Conflicts Management
  t ime management
  Quality circles and Production
  Result management ethics and responsibilities
 12.4.3 administration : chapters of the Establishments code Vii, ix, xi, xii, xV , xxiii, xxV , 
xxVi, xxVii, xxViii, xxix, xxx, xxxi, xxxii, xxxiii, xLVii, xLViii Public service 
commission rules and procedure V olume i-Vi.
 12.4.4 Report writing and presenting information to the management :
  importance of accurancy, of timeliness and of perfection of management information, 
  dealing with reference information
  Periodic and ad-hoc reports
  Writing minutes of meetings and notes
  structure of management reports
  important results that should be highlighted 
  interpretation of results
  suggesting variations
  use of statistical name systems in data analysis
  comparison of performance
  use of ratios and percentages in management reports
  diagrammatic representation
  Listening to professional talks and lectures
  Reporting lectures through speech
  Panel discussions
  seminar abilities
  delivering a speech
Note.– the candidate shall be requried to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject to pass. 
12.5 First Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers in Grade III of Sri Lanka Planning Service : (The 
appendix c service minute of the sri Lanka Planning service published on the Gazette extraordinary 
dated 10.09.2010 and No. 1670/32).
  Subjects of the First Efficiency bar Examination are as follows : 
 Serial No. Subject Duration (Hour) Subject No. 
01 Planning concepts, methodology and Planning institutions 03 09
02 Economic analysis and statistics 03 10
03 Project Planning, implementation monitoring and Evaluation 03 11
04 institutional Regulations and Public sector financial methods 03 12
05 English Language 03 13

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2046
 12.5.1 the examination should be passed within the prescribed time period as per the provisions in 
the Service Minute and the Letter of Appointment and an officer is allowed to appear for all the 
papers at one sitting or for different sittings for each subject. 
Scheme of examination : 
 12.5.2 Planning concepts, methodology and Planning Institutions (Subject No. 09)
 (i) National objectives and priorities and planning policy framework and programmes for their 
achievement. 
 (ii) methodology for National Planning, major problem areas in planning, public participation 
and mobilization of resources etc.
 (iii) Nature and sources of data for National Planning, collection of data, presentation of 
interpretation and analysis, field supervision and investigations demographic concepts, 
economic projections and policy analysis. 
 12.5.3 Economic Analysis and Statistics (Subject No. 10)
 (i) Principles of economics with special emphasis on the theories of production and distribution. 
 (ii) finance, banking systems, international financial methods and trade.
 (iii) analysis of monetary, monetary trade and tariff Policies.
 (iv) Economic structure of sri Lanka.
 (v) Review of the Economy.
 (vi) assessment of technically skilled and unskilled manpower and other resources including 
foreign aid and their utilization. 
 (vii) Economics and social incidents.
 (viii) Economic analysis and basic statistical concepts and methods used in Planning.
 (ix) Principles of Benefit/Cost Analysis.
 12.5.4 Project Planning, Implementation, Supervision and monitoring (Subject No. 11)
 (i) Planning, Identification and defining Projects and Project Planning Policies, theories, 
selection of location, Estimation of technology and cost and benefits, Technical, financial 
and economic analysis.
 (ii) Project implementation and operation/supervision, proper and timely implementation of 
projects and programmes, preparation of detailed operational plans and implementation 
schedules, coordination of monitoring and progress control and follow up action. 
 (iii) Evaluation of projects, assessment of effectiveness of projects and programmes analysis of 
benefits in relation to costs. 
 12.5.5 Institution Regulations and financial methods of the Public Sector (Subject No. 12)
 (i) Government financial Regulations, V olume 1 (except chapter x)
 (ii) chapters Vii, ix, xi, xii, xV, xxiii, xxV, xxVi, xxVii, xxViii, xxix, xxx, xxxi, 
xxxii, xxxiii, xLVii, xLViii chapters i to Vi of the Public service commission 
procedure and rules. 
 (iii) financial control of sri Lanka. – Statutory Provisions relating to Public Finance 
Management, Parliamentary control over Public finance, consolidated fund and its 
operation. aim of appropriation and appropriation methods, state revenue, powers 
and function of minister of finance, powers and the function of the treasury, Warrant 
and imprest authority, auditor General, his powers and function, Public Expenditure 
committee, Public Enterprises committee. 
 (iv) Appointment of Accounting Officers, Chief Accounting Officers and Accounting officers of 
state Revenue their powers and function. 
 (v) Planning and Management of State Expenditure, Identification of Objectives and Functions 
of Organizations, Preparation of Annual Estimates and Expenditure and taking final 

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2047
decisions, Effecting changes in the approved Estimates of Expenditure, implementation of 
Virement Procedure, management of cadres in the Public sector, supplementary Estimates. 
 (vi) Government Procurement Procedure.- Procuring Goods, services and Work, composition 
of tender boards and technical Evaluation committees, Powers and function of 
appointment, tender Evaluation Procedure, management of foreign funded projects. 
 12.5.6 English Language (Subject No. 13)
  a  written examination in English Language will be held to test the academic and professional 
knowledge of English of candidates in relation to subject of Planning development and 
management. 
  Note.– the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject to pass. 
13. the timetable of the examination is as follows : 
  Serial Name  of  the  Subject  Subject  Date  Time 
  No.  examination   No.   
 01  1st  Efficiency  Bar   Constitutional Law and  01-I 22.10.2016 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 p. m. 
   Examination for  administrative Law    
   Officers in Sri  Lanka  Legal Systems of Sri Lanka  01-II 22.10.2016 12.30 p. m. -3.30 p.m. 
   administrative  criminal Law and Evidence  01-iii 23.10.2016 9.00 a. m. -12.00 p.m.
   service  Law    
   administration  02-i 05.11.2016 9.00 a.m.-12.00 p. m. 
   Economics  and sociology 03 23.10.2016 12.30 p. m.-3.30 p.m. 
   financial management in the public 04 19.11.2016 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 p. m.
   sector and procurement process 
 02  1st  Efficiency  Bar  Financial Systems  05-I 20.11.2016 9.00 a. m. -12.00 p. m.
   Examination  for  administration     
   Officers in Sri Lanka    02-II 06.11.2016 9.00 a. m. -12.00 p. m.
   Engineering service     
 03  1st Efficiency Bar  Financial Systems  05-II 20.11.2016 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m. 
   Examination  for  administration     
   Officers in Sri Lanka    02-III 06.11.2016 12.30 p. m. -3.30 p. m.
   Scientific Service      
 04  1st  Efficiency  Bar   Financial Systems  05-II 20.11.2016 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p.m. 
   Examination  for  administration     
   Officers in Sri Lanka    02-III 06.11.2016 12.30 p. m. -3.30 p. m. 
   architects ’ service     
 05  1st  Efficiency  Bar   Government Financial regulations 06 19.11.2016 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.  
   Examination for  Law and management 07 26.11.2016 9.00 a. m. -12.00 p. m.  
   Officers in Grade III Administration  02-IV 05.11.2016 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m. 
   of sri Lanka  Report writing and Presenting 08 26.11.2016 12.30 p. m. -3.30 p. m.
   accountants ’ service  information to management     
 06 1st  Efficiency  Bar  Planning concepts, Methodology 09 03.12.2016 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 p. m.
   Examination for  and Planning institutions
   Officers in Grade III Economic Analysis and statistics 10 03.12.2016 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p.m.
   of sri Lanka  Project Planning, implementation 11 10.12.2016 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 p. m.
   Planning service monitoring and Evaluation
   institutional Regulations and  12 10.12.2016 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.
   Public sector financial methods
   English Language 13 11.12.2016 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 p. m.
    

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2048
14. 
 14.1  Exemptions from the requirement of passing the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examination and 
second Language test shall be made in the following manner. 
 Examination Subject Qualifications required to be exempted
1st Efficiency Bar Examination  Law Should be a Barrister, Advocate in a Supreme
for officers in sri Lanka    court, a Graduate in Law from a university 
administrative service    accepted by university Grants commission
Note 1.– The exemption for Sociology or Economics in the First Efficiency Bar shall be made applicable 
to the officers of Sri Lanka Administrative Service recruited from 01.07.2012 to 23.12.2013 under the 
service minute No. 1419/3 dated 14.11.2005.
 14.2  Even though as per the interim provisions 1.5 (b) of Sri Lanka Administrative Service Minute, the officers 
were required to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination under the provisions of previous service minutes 
before the effective date of (01.07.2012) of the above Service Minute, the officers who are unable to pass 
the same as at 31.12.2014 should complete the Efficiency Bar Examination by passing the subjects of the 
Efficiency Bar Examinations held under the existing service minute which are conforming to the subjects 
of each Efficiency Bar Examination as per the existed service minute. Corresponding subjects are given 
in the following table :
 Service Minute No. 1419/3 dated 14th of November, 2005 The New Service Minute dated 23.12.2013
administration  administration
First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination
financial management in the Public sector Public sector financial management and Procurement 
 Second (II) Efficiency Bar Examination  Process 
 First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination
(a) Economics or  Economics and sociology 
(b) Sociology First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination
First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination 
Law Law
First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination
15. Issuance of results.– the results of all the candidates who have applied/ sat for this examination shall be 
published in the web site of the ministry of Public administration and management. Publishing of the results in the 
ministry website of the shall be considered as an issuance of results to the candidates, according to the circular Number                  
sP/sb/1/13 and dated 13.10.2009 of secretary to h. E. President on the e-documents and e-communication. accordingly, 
heads of departments shall include the relevant copies of the results sheets of the examination published in the website 
of the Ministry to the personal files of the officers. It is not allowed to re-scrutinize the results of the examination. 
16. any matter not referred to herein will be decided by secretary to the ministry of Public administration and 
management. 
17. in the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this notification, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 J. J. 
rathnasiri,
 secretary,
 ministry of Public administration and management.
ministry of Public administration and management, 
independence square,
colombo 07,
26th august, 2016.
09–478

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2049
mINISTRy  Of  EDuCATION
Admission of Student Teachers to National 
Colleges of Education to follow a Three year 
Pre-Service National Diploma in Teaching 
Course - 2016
1.0 aPPLicatioNs are invited from those who have 
acquired requisite academic qualifications and eligibility 
to follow a three year Pre-service National diploma in 
teaching course in a National college of Education.
 1.1  applicants are strongly advised to read and understand 
every detail provided in the Gazette Notification 
under the course/s they apply for, 
 1.2  special attention should be paid to the number of 
applicants recruited for each course as mentioned 
in nos. 7.0, 7.1 and 7.2 of “instructions for the 
Preparation of application form” in the Gazette 
Notification.
2.0  Eligibility.– 
Every applicant should,
 2.1 be a citizen of sri Lanka,
 2.2 be of an excellent character and sound physical 
and mental health,
 2.3 age:
 2.3.1 should be not more than 25 years of age as 
on 01. 01. 2016 ;
 2.3.2  clergy/those who bear a priesthood applying 
for the courses of buddhism, catholicism, 
christianity should be not more than 30 
years of age as on 01. 01. 2016 ;
 2.4 should be unmarried.
3.0 Basic Educational Qualifications.– 
Qualifications mentioned in this chapter are the compulsory 
qualifications unless specifically mentioned under each 
course :
 3.1 should have passed three (03) subjects in one 
sitting at the G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held in 
year 2014 (Estate workers’ children with two 
(02) passes in one sitting are eligible to apply for 
sri Pada National college of Education). 
 3.2  should have passed  six (06) main subjects 
including mother tongue (sinhala/t amil 
Language), mathematics with three (03) credit 
passes in not more than two sittings at the G.c.E. 
(o/L) Examination/ in case of Preliminary 
Pirivena Examination six (06) main subjects 
including mathematics and sinhala with three 
(03) credit passes in not more than two sittings. 
(Should have passed at least five (05) main 
subjects at the first sitting.)
 
NOTE.- following subjects are considered the 
main subjects under the G.c.E. (o/L) new 
syllabus of 2008 and the old syllabus which was 
in function before 2008.
  main subjects under the New syllabus of 2008:
 (i)  Religion, (ii) sinhala Language and 
Literature/tamil Language and Literature, 
(iii) English Language, (iv) mathematics, (v) 
history, (vi) science, (vii) any subject out of 
first or third category (viii) Any subject out of 
second category.
  main subjects under old syllabus (before 
2008):
 (i)  Religion, (ii) sinhala Language and 
Literature/tamil Language and Literature, 
(iii) English Language, (iv) mathematics, 
(v) science and technology, (vi) social 
studies and history, (vii) any subject out of 
aesthetic subjects (viii) any subject out of 
technical subjects
  compulsory subjects of Preliminary Pirivena 
final examination are (i) Sinhala (ii) Pali (iii) 
sanskrit (iv) English (v) mathematics (vi) 
thripitaka
      3.3  If the special qualifications in the G.C.E. (O/L) 
Examination mentioned under 3.2 have not 
been completed in two sittings, they should 
have been completed at the third sitting. 
(Special qualifications will be considered only 
if the applicants have completed the basic 
qualifications indicated at 3.1 and 3.2 above.),
    3.4  English Language proficiency for the English 
medium courses:
  3.4.1  those who apply for English medium 
courses except for English Language 
course should have obtained a credit 
pass in English Language/ordinary pass 
in English Literature at the G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination,
  3.4.2 although the courses on information 
communication technology and Western 

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2050
music are conducted in the English 
medium, the applicants are selected from 
those who have appeared for G.c.E. 
(a/L) in sinhala/t amil/English medium 
considering the number of vacancies 
that exists in sinhala and tamil medium 
schools. 
 3.5 applicants who are called for interview for art/ 
dance (oriental)/ dance (bharatha)/ music 
(oriental)/ music (carnatic)/ drama and theatre 
will be graded and selected as mentioned below.
  applicants who apply for the aesthetic subjects 
will be ranked according to the grade they have 
obtained in the relevant subject in the G.c.E. 
(a/L) examination and the ranking order will be 
prepared based on the Z-score they have obtained 
in the G.c.E. (a/L) examination. accordingly 
priority will be given to the applicants with the 
highest Z-score and the highest grade in the 
particular aesthetic subject (conforming to the 
other criteria of recruitment). 
 3.6  Effective date of all the Educational/ V ocational 
certificates should be on or before the closing 
date of applications.
4.0 Qualifications for the Courses.– 
Educational qualifications and other special 
qualifications applicable for recruitment to each course 
in National colleges of Education are as follows.
    4.1 Course No.  01 -  Primary Education (Sinhala)
   Primary Education (Tamil)       
 4.1.1 three (03) passes including sinhala/ tamil 
Language at G.c.E. (a/L)   examination in 
arts stream held in year 2014. (t wo (02) 
passes including sinhala/ tamil Language 
only for estate workers’ children for sripada 
National college of Education) ;
and
  should have passed G.c.E. (o/L) 
examination in six (06) main subjects 
including English with credit passes in 
sinhala/ tamil Language and mathematics;
or
 4.1.2   
 4.1.2.1.  three (03) passes at G.c.E. (a/L)   
examination for those who studied in 
arts stream without sinhala / tamil 
Language held in year 2014 (two 
(02) passes in relevant subjects only 
for the estate workers’ children for sri 
Pada National college of Education);
       or
 4.1.2.2.  three (03) passes at G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination in commerce/science 
(Physical science/biology) / other 
,subject streams held in year 2014 
(two (02) passes in relevant subjects 
only for the estate workers’ children 
for sri Pada National college of 
Education)  ;
  and
  should have passed G.c.E. (o/L) 
examination in six (06) main subjects 
including English with a distinction 
pass in sinhala/ tamil Language and 
a credit pass in mathematics.
 NOTE - 
 (i) 60% are selected out of the applicants 
who have appeared for G.c.E. (a/L) 
examination in arts stream with sinhala/
tamil language as a subject.
 (ii) 10% out of the applicants who have 
appeared for G.c.E. (a/L) Examination 
in arts stream without sinhala/t amil 
language as a subject and 10% each out 
of science (Physical science/b iology), 
commerce and other streams are 
selected.  
 4.2 Course No. 02 -   Science (Sinhala)
                                     Science (Tamil)
                                     Science (English)
  4.2.1 three passes at the G.c.E. (a/L) 
examination held in year 2014 in the 
biology stream subjects of Physics, 
chemistry and biology. (two passes out of 
the above subjects including biology for sri 
Pada National college of Education only 
for estate workers’ children) ;
   and
         4.2.2 Passed at G.c.E. (o/L) examination in six 
(06) main subjects with a pass in sinhala/ 
tamil Language and a credit pass in 
mathematics.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2051
 NOTE - Science (English medium) Course  
60% out of the applicants who have studied for 
G.c.E. (a/L) in the medium of English and 
remaining 40%  out of the candidates who 
have studied for G.c.E (a/L.) in the medium of 
sinhala/tamil will be selected for the course.
  
(Priority will be given in recruitment to the 
candidates who have studied for G.c.E. (a/L) in 
the medium of English)
 4.3 Course No. 03 –   mathematics (Sinhala)
      mathematics (Tamil)
      mathematics (English)
     
 4.3.1   three (03) passes at the G.c.E. (a/L) 
examination held in year 2014 in the 
subjects of combined mathematics, higher 
mathematics, Physics and chemistry under 
the Physical science stream (t wo (02) 
passes in the subjects of Physical science 
stream including combined mathematics 
or higher mathematics only for estate 
workers’ children for sri Pada National 
college of Education) ;
    and 
 4.3.2 should have passed G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination in six (06) main subjects 
including sinhala/ tamil Language and 
a credit pass in the subject of science/
science and technology. 
                 
NOTE - mathematics (English medium) Course
60% out of the applicants who have studied for 
G.c.E. (a/L) in the medium of English and 
remaining 40% out of the candidates who have 
studied for G.c.E (a/L.) in the medium of 
sinhala/tamil will be selected for the course.
(Priority will be given in recruitment to the 
candidates who have studied for G.c.E. (a/L) in 
the medium of English)
 4.4 Course No. 04 - Social Science (Tamil)
  (Social Science course will be conducted 
only for Tamil medium students in Sripada 
National College of Education. hence, only 
the applicants mentioned under the section 
6.3 can apply for this course. )
 4.4.1 should have passed in three (03) subjects 
including one subject out of history, 
Political science, Geography at G.c.E. 
(a/L) examination held in year 2014. (two 
(02) passes including one of the above 
subjects only for estate workers’ children) ; 
 
  and
 4.4.2 should have passed G.c.E. (o/L) 
examination in six (06) main subjects 
including tamil Language and mathematics 
with a credit pass for social studies and 
history/ history/ citizenship Education/ 
Geography.
4.5     Course No. 05 - buddhism
  buddhist Priests/ Nuns / dasasil matha  registered 
in department of buddhist affairs of buddha 
sasana ministry and the Laity can apply for the 
course of buddhism. (Laity candidates should 
have completed all educational qualifications in 
their laity name.)
 4.5.1 should have passed G.c.E. (a/L) 
examination held in year 2014 in three 
(03) subjects including two (02) out of 
buddhism, buddhist civilization, Pali and 
sinhala. 
 4.5.2  should have passed G.c.E. (o/L) 
examination in six (06) main subjects 
including sinhala Language, buddhism 
and mathematics or Preliminary Pirivena 
final Examination in six (06) compulsory 
subjects with sinhala Language, 
mathematics and tripitaka dharma.
 4.5.3 should have passed Pracheena, Preliminary 
Examination. 
 
 4.5.4 should have passed bauddha dharmacharya 
Examination.
 4.5.5 should have passed daham school final 
Examination.
 

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2052
NOTE -
  
  Priority order in Selection-
 (a) Applicants having all Certificates under 
4.5.1, 4.5.2, 4.5.3, 4.5.4 and 4.5.5
 (b) Applicants having Certificates under 4.5.1, 
4.5.2 and 4.5.3
 (c) Applicants having Certificates under 4.5.1, 
4.5.2 and 4.5.4
 (d) Applicants having Certificates under 
4.5.1,4.5.2 and 4.5.5
 (e) Applicants  having Certificates under 4.5.1 
and 4.5.2
4.6  Course No. 06 – hinduism
 4.6.1 three (03) passes including one of 
the subjects out of hinduism, hindu 
civilization, sanskrit at G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination held in year 2014
 4.6.2 should have passed G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination in six (06) main subjects 
including tamil Language, mathematics 
and hinduism
 4.6.3 candidates having shaiva siddhantha 
Pandithar Certificate
 4.6.4 candidates having Shaiva Pulaver Certificate
 4.6.5 candidates having ilang shaiva Pulaver 
Certificate.
 
 NOTE - Priority order in Selection 
 (a) candidates having 4.6.1, 4.6.2 and all other 
Certificates.
 (b) Candidates having certificates 4.6.1, 4.6.2, 4.6.5 
and one of the other two Certificates.
 (c) Candidates having Certificates 4.6.1, 4.6.2 and 
one of the other three Certificates.
 (d) Candidates having Certificates 4.6.1, 4.6.2
 4.7 Course No. 07 – Islam
 4.7.1 three (03) passes including one subject 
out of the subjects of islam, islamic 
civilization and arabic in the G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination held in year 2014.
 4.7.2 should have passed G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination in six (06) main subjects 
including tamil Language, mathematics 
and islam.
 4.7.3 should have passed all subjects in al – 
alim Preliminary Examination and all 
subjects in al – alim final Examination.  
 4.7.4 should have passed all subjects in al – 
alim Preliminary Examination.
 4.7.5 Having Moulavi Certificate.
  NOTE - Priority order in Selection 
 (a) Candidates having Certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.2, 
4.7.3, 4.7.4 and 4.7.5.
 (b) Candidates having Certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.2, 
4.7.4 and 4.7.5. 
 (c) Candidates having Certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.2 and 
4.7.5.
 (d) Candidates having Certificates 4.7.1 and 4.7.2.
 4. 8 Course No. 08 –  Catholicism/ 
   Christianity (Sinhala)
   Catholicism/Christianity(Tamil)
 4.8.1 Should have passed 
  in any three (03) subjects at G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination held in year 2014 ; 
and
  in six (06) main subjects including sinhala/ 
tamil Language and mathematics at G.c.E. 
(o/L) Examination ;   
and
  in catholicism/ christianity/ christian 
civilization at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination or 
with a credit pass in catholicism/ christianity 
at G.c.E. (o/L) Examination ;
and
  the applicant should have obtained the 
Certificate of Catholic Bishop for Catholics 
to be a teacher of catholicism and the 
Certificate of National Christian Council 
for christians to be a teacher of christianity

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2053
 4.8.2 selection of applicants for catholicism 
course will be made in the priority order of 
qualifications given below:
 4.8.2.1   Certificate of the four year course 
on theology (bth) conducted by 
National seminary ;
  or 
 4.8.2.2  Certificate of the Christian Philosophy 
course conducted by National seminary ; 
  or
  4.8.2.3  Certificate of the three year religious 
education course conducted by deva   
dharma Nikethanaya (theology centre) ;
   or
 4.8.2.4 Certificate issued by Superior or 
relevant bishop of the clergy sect 
that the applicant has successfully 
completed   the course of  studies on 
the Religious education and training 
(Novitiate) to become a member of the 
clergy ;
  or
  4.8.2.5 Passing of one of the catholic dharmacharya 
Examinations  conducted by the National 
catechetical centre (dahamguru)
 i.e.
       dharmacharya hons (dahamguru 3)
                  or
       dharmacharya special (dahamguru 2)
    or 
      dharmacharya ordinary (dahamguru 1)
   or
  4.8.2.6  Passing of catholicism/christianity/ 
christian civilization in G.c.E. (a/L)   
Examination.  
 4.8.3 selection of applicants for christianity 
will be made in the priority order of 
qualifications given below  :
.
 4.8.3.1  Should have obtained the Certificate 
of dharmavedi diploma course 
conducted by Lanka theological 
college, Pilimatalawa.
 4.8.3.2 Should have obtained National Certificate 
on Religious Knowledge (dharmacharya) 
issued by National  christianity council. 
    
NOTE - 
 (i) the applicants for the catholicism/christianity 
(sinhala medium) course are selected in the order 
of Z-score based on the catholic population in 
each district. 
 (ii) 85% of all admissions of catholic applicants 
qualified under 4.8.1 are selected on the priority 
order given under 4.8.2. if the required number 
of applications is not received from catholics 
(to fill 85% of admissions), Christian candidates 
are selected for such vacancies.
 (iii) 15% of all admissions of christian applicants 
qualified under 4.8.1 are selected on the priority 
order given under 4.8.3. if the required number 
of applications is not received from christians 
(to fill 15% of admissions), Catholic candidates 
will be selected for such vacancies.
 (iv) 40% of the total number of admissions will be 
selected from catholic and christian clergy. 
if the required percentage (40%) of vacancies 
cannot be filled out of clergy, selection will be 
made from laity applicants.
      
 (v) In case of sufficient number of applicants of the 
clergy who have passed G.c.E. (a/L) in 2014 
is not available, those (clergy)  who have passed 
the G.c.E. (a/L) Examination in the years 
2013, 2012, 2011 and 2010 respectively will 
be selected considering  the year immediately 
preceding 2014. 
4.9 Course No. 09 - first Language (Sinhala)
 4.9.1 should have passed in three (03) subjects 
with a credit pass in sinhala Language at 
G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held in year 
2014 ;    
     and   
 4.9.2 should have passed in six (06) main 
subjects including mathematics and a 
credit pass in sinhala Language at G.c.E. 
(o/L) Examination.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2054
   4.10  Course No. 10 - first Language (Tamil)
 4.10.1 should have passed in three (03) subjects 
with a credit pass in tamil Language at 
G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held in year 
2014. (t wo passes (02) including tamil 
Language only for the estate workers’ 
children for sri Pada National college of 
Education. Priority will be given to those 
who have a credit pass for tamil Language 
at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination.) ;
   and   
 4.10.2 should have passed in six (06) main 
subjects including mathematics and a 
credit pass in tamil Language at G.c.E. 
(o/L) examination.  
4.11 Course No.  11 -    English
              
 4.11.1 should have passed in three (03) subjects 
including English Language (subject No. 
73) at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held in 
year 2014  ;
                 and 
              should have passed in six (06) main subjects 
including sinhala/ tamil Language and 
mathematics with a credit pass for English 
Language/an ordinary pass in English 
Literature at G.c.E. (o/L) Examination or 
Passing London (o/L) Examination.
 4.11.2 should have passed in any three (03) 
subjects at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held 
in year 2014 ;
                and 
         should have passed in six (06) main  
subjects including sinhala/ tamil Language, 
mathematics and English Language at least 
with a credit pass in English Literature at 
G.c.E. (o/L) Examination.   
 4.11.3 should have passed in any three subjects 
at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held in year 
2014.
                 and 
              should have passed in six (06) main 
subjects including sinhala/ tamil Language, 
mathematics with at least a Very Good pass in 
English Language at G.c.E. (o/L) Examination.
 NOTE - Priority order in selection 
 
 (i) Applicants qualified under 4.11.1
  selection will be made according to the order of 
the Z-score in the district/secretarial division 
and under the provisions of Para 6.1.2.  
 (ii) Applicants qualified under 4.11.2
  selection will be made according to the order 
of the marks offered to the grades obtained for 
English Literature at G.c.E. (o/L) Examination 
in the district/secretarial division and under 
the provisions of Para 6.1.2. (only distinction 
pass - a, Very Good pass - b and credit pass – 
c will be considered)
 (iii) Applicants qualified under 4.11.3
  selection will be made according to the order 
of the marks offered to the grades obtained for 
English Language at G.c.E. (o/L) Examination 
in the district/secretarial division and under the 
provisions of Para 6.1.2. (only distinction pass - 
a and Very Good pass - b will be considered)
 
 4.13 Course No.  13 –  Art (Sinhala)
                           Art (Tamil)  
 4.13.1 should have passed in three (03) subjects 
including art at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination 
held in year 2014. (two (02) passes in relevant 
subjects including art only for the Estate 
workers’ children for sri Pada National college 
of Education) ;
  and
 4.13.2 should have passed G.c.E. (o/L) Examination 
in six (06) main subjects including sinhala/ 
tamil Language, mathematics and art.
 4.13.3 The applicants who have acquired qualifications 
under 4.13.1 and 4.13.2 will be selected in 
accordance with the procedure stated in section 
3.5. 
 NOTE -   (If the number of applicants who have fulfilled 
the required qualifications for Sri Pada National 
College of Education is not sufficient to fill the 
vacancies, priority will be given to the applicants 
of tamil medium non-estate workers with 
indian origin who are living in Estate districts. 
they should have passed in three (03) subjects 
including art at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held 
in year 2014. if vacancies exist beyond this, 
Estate workers’ children who have passed in 

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2055
two (02)  subjects in one sitting at G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination held in year 2014 and obtained a 
credit pass for art/ art and sculpture at G.c.E. 
(o/L) Examination will be considered for 
selection.)
4.14   Course No.  14 –    Dance (Oriental) 
 
 4.14.1 should have passed in three (03) subjects 
including dancing (oriental) at G.c.E. 
(a/L) Examination held in year 2014 ; 
  and
 4.14.2 should have passed in six (06) main subjects 
including sinhala Language, mathematics 
and dancing (oriental) at G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination.
 4.14.3  the applicants who have acquired 
qualifications under 4.14.1 and 4.14.2 
will be selected in accordance with the 
procedure stated in section 3.5. 
4.15   Course No.  15 –    Dance (bharatha)
 4.15.1 should have passed in three (03) subjects 
including bharatha Natyam at G.c.E. 
(a/L) examination held in year 2014. (two 
(02)  passes in relevant subjects including 
bharatha Natyam only for the estate 
workers’ children for sripada National 
college of Education)  ; 
  and
 4.15.2 should have passed in six (06) main subjects 
including tamil Language, mathematics 
and bharatha Natyam at G.c.E. (o/L) 
examination.
 4.15.3   the applicants who have acquired 
qualifications under 4.15.1 and 4.15.2 
will be selected in accordance with the 
procedure stated in section 3.5
 NOTE -   (if the number of applicants who have 
fulfilled the required qualifications for Sri 
Pada National college of Education is 
not sufficient to fill the vacancies, priority 
will be given to the applicants of tamil 
medium non-estate workers with indian 
origin who are living in estate districts. 
they should have passed in three (03) 
subjects including bharatha Natyam at 
G.c.E. (a/L) examination held in year 
2014. if vacancies exist beyond this, estate 
workers’ children who have passed in two 
(02) subjects in one sitting at G.c.E. (a/L) 
examination held in year 2014 and obtained 
a credit pass for bharatha Natyam at G.c.E. 
(o/L) examination will be considered for 
selection.)
4.16  Course No. 16 - music (Oriental)
 4.16.1 should have passed in three (03) subjects 
including music (oriental) at G.c.E. (a/L) 
examination held in year 2014  ;
    and
 4.16.2 should have passed in six (06) main subjects 
including sinhala Language, mathematics 
and music (oriental) at G.c.E. (o/L) 
examination.
 4.16.3 the applicants who have acquired 
qualifications under 4.16.1 and 4.16.2 
will be selected in accordance with the 
procedure stated  in section 3.5
4.17 Course No. 17 - music (Carnatic)
 4.17.1  should have passed in three (03) subjects 
including carnatic music at G.c.E. (a/L) 
examination held in year 2014. (two (02) 
passes in relevant subjects including music 
(carnatic) only for the estate workers’ 
children for sri Pada National college of 
Education) ;
  and
 4.17.2 should have passed in six (06) main 
subjects including tamil Language, 
mathematics and carnatic music at G.c.E. 
(o/L) examination.
 4.17.3 the applicants who have acquired 
qualifications under 4.17.1 and 4.17.2 
will be selected in accordance with the 
procedure stated in section 3.5.
 NOTE - (If the number of applicants who have fulfilled 
the required qualifications for Sri Pada National 
College of Education is not sufficient to fill the 

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2056
vacancies, priority will be given to the applicants 
of tamil medium non-estate workers with 
indian origin who are living in estate districts. 
they should have passed in three (03) subjects 
including carnatic music at G.c.E. (a/L) 
examination held in year 2014. if vacancies 
exist beyond this, estate workers’ children who 
have passed in two (02) subjects in one sitting 
at G.c.E. (a/L) examination held in year 2014 
and obtained a credit pass for carnatic music at 
G.c.E. (o/L) examination will be considered for 
selection.
 4.18  Course No.  18 –    Western music (English)
 4.18.1  should have passed in three (03) subjects 
including Western music at G.c.E. (a/L) 
examination held in year 2014 ;
  and
  should have passed in six (06) main 
subjects including sinhala/tamil Language, 
mathematics and Western music and a 
credit pass for English Language or an 
ordinary pass for English Literature at 
G.c.E. (o/L) examination ;
  or
 4.18.2 should have passed in any three (03) 
subjects at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held 
in year 2014 ;
  and
  should have passed in six (06) main 
subjects including sinhala/ tamil 
Language, mathematics and Western music 
with a credit pass in English Language or 
an ordinary pass in English Literature at 
G.c.E. (o/L) Examination ;
  and
  Should have passed Grade five in Western 
music (theory and Practical) from a 
recognized institute approved by the 
colleges of Education board/secretary to 
the ministry of Education ;
      or
 4.18.3 should have passed in any three (03) 
subjects at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held 
in year 2014 ;
  and
  should have passed in six (06) main 
subjects including sinhala/ tamil 
Language, mathematics and Western music 
with a credit pass in English Language or 
an ordinary pass in English Literature at 
G.c.E. (o/L) examination ;
 and 
  should have passed in Western music 
as an additional subject at G.c.E. (a/L) 
examination ;
  or
 4.18.4 should have passed in any three (03) 
subjects at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held 
in year 2014 ;
                 and
  should have passed in six (06) main 
subjects including sinhala/tamil Language, 
mathematics and a distinction pass in 
Western music with a credit pass in English 
Language or an ordinary pass in English 
Literature at G.c.E. (o/L) Examination 
NOTE -
 (i) applicants should reach a satisfactory level of 
performance at the practical test conducted for 
Western music course.
 (ii) in selection, priority will be given to applicants 
qualifying under 4.18.1, 4.18.2, 4.18.3, 4.18.4 
respectively.
 4. 19 Course No. 19 –  Drama and Theatre (Sinhala)
    Drama and Theatre (Tamil)
 4.19.1 should have passed in three (03) subjects 
including drama and theatre at G.c.E. 
(a/L) Examination held in year 2014 ;
  and
 4.19.2 should have passed in six (06) main 
subjects including sinhala/ tamil 
Language, mathematics and drama and 
theatre/ music/ art or dance at G.c.E. 
(o/L) Examination.
 4.19.3 the applicants who have acquired 
qualifications under 4.19.1 and 4.19.2 
will be selected in accordance with the 
procedure stated in section 3.5
NOTE -  Priority will be given to the applicants 
who have passed in drama & theatre at 
G.c.E. (o/L) Examination. if the number 
of applicants who have passed in drama 

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2057
and theatre at G.c.E. (o/L) examination 
is not sufficient to fill the vacancies in any 
district, those who have passed in music/ 
art/ dance at G.c.E. (o/L) examination 
will be considered for recruitment.   
 
4.20 Course No. 20 - Physical Education  (Sinhala) 
 Physical Education (Tamil) 
 Physical Education (English)
 4.20.1 should have passed in any three (03) 
subjects at G.c.E. (a/L) examination held 
in year 2014 ;   
  and
 4.20.2 should have passed in six (06) main subjects 
including sinhala/ tamil Language, health 
and Physical Education and mathematics at 
G.c.E. (o/L) examination ; 
  and
 4.20.3  achievements/ performances of the 
recognized track and field  athletics and 
organized sports. 
•	 a  maximum of 75 marks will be awarded 
for three (03) certificates of games/ events 
in the following priority order.
 
          PRioRity  oRdER of sPoRts/ EVENts
Se. No. Levels/ Subject Single Team Place/Grade Marks
1 international  Level single ---- 1 25
2 international  Level single ---- 2 24
3 international  Level single ---- 3 23
4 international  Level ---- team 1 22
5 international  Level ---- team 2 21
6 international  Level ---- team 3 20
7 international level Representation single team ---- 19
8 National Level single ---- 1 18
9 National Level single ---- 2 17
10 National Level single ---- 3 16
11 National Level ---- team 1 15
12 National Level ---- team 2 14
13 National Level ---- team 3 13
14 Provincial Level single ---- 1 12
15 Provincial Level single ---- 2 11
16 Provincial Level single ---- 3 10
17 Provincial Level ---- team 1 09
18 Provincial Level ---- team 2 08
19 Provincial Level ---- team 3 07
20 Regiment Sergeant Major /Warrant Officer 1 ---- ---- ---- 06
21 Presidents’ scout/ Girl Guide ---- ---- ---- 06
22 Sergeant  Major /Warrant Officer 2 ---- ---- ---- 05
23 district Level/Zonal/ divisional secretariat Level single ---- 1 06
24 district Level/Zonal/ divisional secretariat Level single ---- 2 05
25 district Level/Zonal/ divisional secretariat Level single ---- 3 04
26 district Level/Zonal/ divisional secretariat Level ---- team 1 03
27 district Level/Zonal/ divisional secretariat Level ---- team 2 02
28 district Level/Zonal/ divisional secretariat Level ---- team 3 01

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2058
 4.20.4 additional points will be granted for the 
grade obtained in health and Physical 
Education at G.c.E. (o/L) examination as 
given below.
   
  a  Pass –  05
  b Pass – 03 
  c Pass –  02
  s  Pass –  01
NOTE :
 (i) selection for the Physical Education 
course will be made according to the 
respective order of sports performances of 
the applicants in each secretarial division / 
district. (according to the table in 4.20.3)
 
 (ii) Recognized sports competitions (international) 
– Participation in international competitions 
representing sri Lanka National sports 
teams or school National sports t eams 
(except chess, carom and draught) through 
ministry of Education/ m inistry of s ports 
and their registered sports associations. 
(Participation in international competitions 
on personal basis by school sports teams 
will not be considered.)
 (iii) Recognized sports competitions – National 
level competitions organized by the 
ministry of Education/ ministry of sports/ 
National youth services council. 
  Provincial level competitions organized 
by the Provincial ministry of Education/ 
Provincial ministry of sports/ National 
youth services council.
 
  district Level competitions organized 
by the Provincial ministry of Education/ 
Provincial ministry of sports/ National 
youth services council.
 
            Zonal level competitions organized by the 
Provincial ministry of Education.
 
 (iv) 1
st, 2 nd and 3 rd places in ‘a ’ Grade 
competitions organized by recommended 
sports associations registered under 
the ministry of sports and ministry of 
Education will only be given priority 
respectively.
 (v) Certificates obtained for Sports 
performance/achievements within the 
preceding five (05) years before the closing 
date of the application will only be valid. 
 (vi) marks will be awarded to the highest 
certificate out of three certificates obtained 
for the same event in the same year.
4.21 Course No. 21 – home Economics (Sinhala)    
        home Economics (Tamil)
 4.21.1 should have passed in three subjects 
including home Economics at G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination held in year 2014 ;
  
                   and
 4.21.2 should have passed in six (06) main subjects 
including sinhala/ tamil Language, 
mathematics and science/science and 
technology at G.c.E. (o/L) examination. 
4.22 Course No.  22 –   Agriculture and food   
 Technology (Sinhala)
  Agriculture and   
                              food  Technology  (Tamil)
 4.22.1 should have passed in agriculture, 
biology and chemistry at G.c.E. (a/L) 
examination held in year 2014 ;
  and
  should have passed in six (06) main subjects 
including sinhala/    tamil Language with 
credit passes for mathematics and science/
science and technology at G.c.E. (o/L) 
examination.  
 4.22.2 should have passed in three (03) subjects 
including agriculture/ agricultural 
technology/ bio – Resource technology/ 
food technology at G.c.E. (a/L) 
examination held in year 2014 ;
   
  and
  should have passed in six (06) main subjects 
including sinhala/ tamil Language with 
credit passes for mathematics, science/
science and technology and agriculture/ 
agriculture and food technology/ 
horticulture/ animal husbandry/ marine 
bio-resource technology/inland fisheries 

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2059
technology/ food science and technology  
at G.c.E. (o/L) examination. 
NOTE - Priority order of selection: 
 (a) Applicants who have obtained a certificate 
for successfully completing a course on 
agriculture for one year or more in a recognized 
Government agriculture college, together with 
the qualifications stated under 4.22.1.
 (b)  Applicants qualified under 4.22.1
 (c) Applicants qualified under 4.22.2
4.23  Course No. 23 – Technical Studies – Crafts
    and Art (Sinhala)
   Technical Studies – Crafts  
          and Art (Tamil)
 4.23.1 should have passed in any three (03) 
subjects at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held 
in year 2014 ;
 
  and 
 4.23.2  should have passed in six (06) main subjects 
including mathematics and sinhala/ tamil 
Language and craft and art/art and craft 
at G.c.E. (o/L) examination ;
 
         and 
 4.23.3 should have followed and successfully 
completed (not less than  10 months) a 
technical course which is relevant to the 
subject area, conducted by a Government 
approved t echnical college/ National 
apprentice board/ V ocational training 
authority/ textile industries department/ 
industrial development and Enterprise 
Promotion department/ other institutions 
Governed by central/ Provincial ministries, 
which holds the power and authority to 
issue formal certificates indicating the 
performance level.
NOTE - 
  (i)  Priority order of selection:
 (a) Applicants having Certificates 4.23.1, 4.23.2 
and 4.23.3
 (b) Applicants having Certificates  4.23.1 and 
4.23.2
  If a sufficient number of qualified applicants 
as per (a) is not available in each district, the 
applicants who have acquired qualifications in 
the years 2013 and 2012 respectively will be 
considered as per (a). if vacancies exist beyond 
this, the applicants who have passed G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination in the years 2014, 2013 and 2012 
respectively as per (b) will be considered.
 (ii) in the application, under the section 16.1 the term 
craft and art must be clearly mentioned as the 
subject area applying for the course.
 (iii) all requirements indicated above should have 
been completed on or before the closing date of 
the applications. 
4.24 Course No.  24 – A Design and Construction 
Technology (Sinhala) 
 24 – b Design and mechanical 
Technology (Sinhala)
 24 – C  Design and Electrical and 
Electronic Technology 
(Sinhala)
 24 –  A  Design and Construction 
Technology (Tamil) 
 24 –  b Design and mechanical 
Technology (Tamil) 
 24 – C Design and Electrical and 
Electronic Technology 
(Tamil)   
                
 4.24.1 should have passed in three (03) subjects 
including one of the subjects of civil 
technology; mechanical technology; 
Electrical, Electronic and information 
technology belonging to hard technology at 
G.c.E. (a/L) examination in year 2014 ; 
  or
 4.24.2  should have passed in any three (03) 
subjects at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held 
in year 2014 ;
  and 
 4.24.3 should have passed in six (06) main subjects 
including mathematics, sinhala/ tamil 
Language, and one subject of construction 
technology/ mechanical technology/ 
Electrical and Electronic technology/ 
design and technology at G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination ;
  and
  4.24.4  should have followed and successfully 
completed (not less than 10 months) a 
technical course which is relevant to the 
subject area, conducted by a Government 
approved technical college/ National  
apprentice board/ V ocational training 
authority/ industrial development and 

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2060
Enterprise Promotion department/ other 
institutions Governed by central/ Provincial 
ministries, which holds the power and 
authority to issue formal certificates    
indicating  the performance level.
                  
   NOTE - 
 (i)  Priority order of selection:
 (a) Applicants having Certificates 4.24.1, 4.24.3 
and 4.24.4
 (b) Applicants having Certificates 4.24.2, 4.24.3 
and 4.24.4
  If a sufficient number of qualified applicants as 
per (a) and (b) is not available in each district, 
the applicants who have passed G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination in the years 2013 and 2012 
respectively  will be considered as per (a) or (b) 
mentioned above.
 (ii) in the application, under the section 16.1 the 
subject area must be clearly mentioned as 
design and construction technology/design 
and mechanical technology / design, Electrical 
and Electronic technology.
 (iii) all requirements indicated above should have 
been completed on or before the closing date of 
the applications. 
  
4.25  Course No. 25 – Information Communication  
  Technology (English)
 4.25.1 should have passed in three (03) subjects 
including at least a credit pass for 
information communication technology 
at the G.c.E. (a/L) examination held in 
year 2014 (t wo (02) subjects including 
information communication technology 
only for the estate workers’ children) ;
  and
  should have passed in six (6) main subjects 
including sinhala/ tamil Language with 
a credit pass for English Language/ an 
ordinary pass for English Literature and 
a credit pass for mathematics at G.c.E. 
(o/L) examination. 
  (Passing in six (6) main subjects 
including sinhala/ tamil Language and 
English Language with a credit pass for 
mathematics at G.c.E. (o/L) examination is 
valid only for the estate workers’ children).
 4.25.2 should have passed in three (03) subjects 
including information communication 
technology at G.c.E. (a/L) examination 
held in year 2014 (t wo subjects (02) 
including information communication 
technology only for the estate workers’ 
children) ;
             and
  should have passed in six (06) main subjects 
including sinhala/ tamil Language, 
mathematics with a credit pass for English 
Language/ an ordinary pass for English 
Literature and at least a credit pass for 
information communication technology at 
G.c.E. (o/L) examination.
  (Passing in six (06) main subjects including 
sinhala/ tamil Language, English 
Language, information communication 
technology and mathematics at G.c.E. 
(o/L) examination is valid only for the 
estate workers’ children).
 4.25.3 should have passed in three (03) subjects in 
Physical science stream at the G.c.E. (a/L) 
examination held in year 2014. (t wo (02) 
subjects in Physical science stream only for 
the estate workers’ children) ;
  and
  should have passed in six (6) main subjects 
including sinhala/ tamil Language and 
mathematics with a credit pass for English 
Language/ an ordinary pass for English 
Literature and at least a Very Good pass for 
information communication technology at 
G.c.E. (o/L) examination.
  (Passing in six (6) main subjects 
including English Language, information 
communication technology, sinhala/ 
tamil Language and mathematics at G.c.E. 
(o/L) examination is valid only for the 
estate workers’ children).
 4.25.4 should have passed in three (03) subjects 
in biology stream at the G.c.E. (a/L) 
examination held in year 2014  (t wo (02) 
subjects in biology stream only for the 
estate workers children) ;
        
and
  

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2061
  should have passed in six (6) main subjects 
including sinhala/ tamil Language and 
mathematics with a credit pass for English 
Language/ an ordinary pass for English 
Literature and at least a Very Good pass for 
information communication technology at 
G.c.E. (o/L) examination. 
  (Passing in six (6) main subjects including 
sinhala/ tamil Language, mathematics, 
English Language, information 
communication technology at G.c.E. 
(o/L) Examination is valid only for the 
estate workers’ children).
 4.25.5 should have passed in three (03) subjects 
in art or commerce stream at the G.c.E. 
(a/L) examination held in year 2014. (two 
(02) subjects in art or commerce stream 
only for the estate workers’ children) ;
  and
  should have passed in six (6) main subjects 
including sinhala/ tamil Language and 
mathematics with a credit pass for English 
Language/ an ordinary pass for English 
Literature and a distinction pass for 
information communication technology at 
G.c.E. (o/L) examination. 
  (Passing in (6) main subjects including 
sinhala/ tamil Language, mathematics, 
English Language, information 
communication technology at G.c.E. 
(o/L) examination is valid only for the 
estate workers’ children).
•	 selection of Estate Workers’ children for 
information communication technology 
course will be made on the similar basis 
as for other courses; but the course will be 
conducted for them at Ruwanpura National 
college of Education.
NOTE - Priority Order of Selection 
 selection will be made according to the order of the Z-score 
in each district /secretarial division and para 6.1.2. of this 
Gazette Notification.
 (i) Applicants qualified under 4.25.1
 (ii) Applicants qualified under 4.25.2
 (iii) Applicants qualified under 4.25.3
 (iv) Applicants qualified under 4.25.4
 (v) Applicants qualified under 4.25.5
4.30   Course No. 30 - Second National Language     
           (Sinhala)
 4.30.1 should have passed in three (03) subjects 
with a credit pass in sinhala Language at 
G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held in year 
2014 ;
  and   
 4.30.2 should have passed in six (06) main 
subjects including mathematics and sinhala 
Language at G.c.E. (o/L) Examination.  
  NOTE - in selection of applicants for this course, 
priority will be given to those who have 
passed in tamil as a second National 
Language at G.c.E. (o/L) Examination/ 
second National Language (advanced) 
Certificate in Tamil issued by the 
Department Official Languages / Optional 
second National Language at G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination, in respective order. 
4.31 Course No. 31 -  Second National Language   
         (Tamil)
 4.31.1 should have passed in three (03) subjects 
including a credit pass in tamil Language 
at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held in year 
2014 ;
      and   
 4.31.2  should have passed in six (06) main 
subjects including mathematics and tamil 
Language at G.c.E. (o/L) Examination. 
NOTE -  in selection of applicants for this course, 
priority will be given to those who have 
passed in sinhala as a second Language 
at G.c.E. (o/L) Examination/ second 
Language (Advanced) Certificate in 
sinhala issued by the department 
Official Languages / Sinhala as Optional 
Language at G.c.E. (o/L) Examination, 
in respective order.

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2062
4.32 Course No. 32 –    Special Education (Sinhala)
         Special Education (Tamil)
4.32.1  should have passed in any three (03) 
subjects at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held 
in year 2014 ;
and
 4.32.2 should have passed in six (06) main subjects 
including sinhala/ tamil Language and 
mathematics at G.c.E. (o/L) Examination.
NOTE - t he applicants of this course will be considered 
to appoint as teachers of special Educational 
needs such as visually- impaired, hearing- 
impaired, multiple - impaired, autism, learning - 
difficulties and intellectual deficiencies. Hence, 
only the applicants, who are willing to sign an 
agreement to serve in these special units where 
the impaired children learn, should apply for 
this course.
 the applicants in this course are accountable 
to serve the children of special needs. 
therefore, the applicants who are not in 
appropriate physical and mental condition 
to assist such children are better refrain from 
applying to this course. 
for Special Attention.– 
the following points which will be relevant in the 
recruitment procedure in the year of 2017 and thereafter 
are published for the prior information of the applicants. 
 Amendments of qualifications to recruit 
student teachers to follow above courses in 
National Colleges of Education after 2017 
will be made in a par with the amendments 
to G.C.E. (A/L) curriculum in 2015 too. 
 it has been suggested to consider one year 
Diploma Certificate issued by Buddhist and Pali 
university when selecting student teachers for 
the courses on buddhism in National colleges 
of Education in 2017, based on the results of 
G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held in 2015.
 it is expected to consider the catholic 
Dhamma School Final Certificate issued by the 
Department of Examinations and the Certificate 
of three year Religious studies course 
conducted by aquinas higher Education 
Institute in addition to the qualifications 
stated under 4.8.2 of this Gazette notification 
for the selection of student teachers to follow 
catholic/christian courses in National colleges 
of Education in 2017, based on the results of 
G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held in 2015.
 it has been suggested to consider passing of 
General information technology Examination 
(Git) of Grade 12 and the National V ocational 
Qualification Certificate of Level Three (3) 
(NVQ) when selecting student teachers to follow 
information communication technology course 
in National colleges of Education in 2018, based 
on the results of G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held 
in 2016.
5.0 Number of the Course, Name of the Course 
and the medium in a par with the National 
Colleges of Education where each course will 
be conducted and the respective number of the 
NCoE are indicated below. 
 the applicants are requested to refer to the table 
carefully and identify the number of the course 
correctly before filling in the application form. 
your application will be computerized referring 
to your course Number. applications that are 
filled with incorrect information will be rejected. 
No alteration is permitted after your application 
is sent to the branch of National colleges of 
Education, ministry of Education. however, 
colleges of Education board/secretary to the 
ministry of Education holds the right of making 
final decision regarding the placement of courses 
in an appropriate manner in National colleges of 
Education. 
column i  –  course Number
column ii  –  course Name
column iii  – NcoEs where sinhala medium 
courses are conducted.
column iv  – NcoEs where tamil medium 
courses are conducted.
column v  – NcoEs where English medium 
courses are conducted.
(the number of the National college of Education is 
given within brackets beside the Name of the college).

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2063
Course 
Number
Course Name Names and Numbers of NCoEEs by Courses medium wise
Sinhala medium Tamil medium English medium
i ii iii iv v
01 Primary Education (1) uva (6) Vavuniya
(2) Nilwala (7) sripada
(3) mahaweli (8) addalaichenai
(4) sariputta 
(dambadeniya)
(9) batticaloa
(7) sripada (15) Jaffna 
(10) Pasdunrata (16) dharga town
(11) Pulathisipura
(12) Wayamba
(13) Ruwanpura
(14) Ruhuna
(17) hapitigama
(19) maharagama
02 science (2) Nilwala (6) Vavuniya (2) Nilwala
(5) siyane (7) sripada (5) siyane
(7) sri Pada (8) addalaichenai (15) Jaffna
(9) batticaloa
(15) Jaffna
03 mathematics (2) Nilwala (6) Vavuniya (2) Nilwala
(5) siyane (7) sri Pada (5) siyane
(7) sri Pada (8) addalaichenai (15) Jaffna
(10) Pasdunrata (15) Jaffna
04 social science (7) sripada
05 buddhism (4) sariputta/
dambadeniya
06 hinduism (6) Vavuniya
07 islam (8) addalaichenai
08 catholicism / christianity (12) Wayamba (6) Vavuniya
09 first Language (sinhala)  (12) Wayamba
(18) Peradeniya
10 first Language (tamil) (7) sripada
(16) dharga town
(18) Peradeniya
11 English (3) mahaweli
(10) Pasdunrata
(15) Jaffna
(18) Peradeniya
13 art  (3) mahaweli (7) sripada
(12) Wayamba (9) batticaloa
(15) Jaffna
14 dance (oriental) (3) mahaweli
(12) Wayamba

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2064
   NOTE -
  darga town National college of Education is 
reserved for tamil medium female students. 
6.0   Procedure for Selection of Student Teachers for 
year 2016
 6.1 basis of Selection:
 6.1.1. the number of student teachers to 
be admitted to the colleges has been 
decided by considering the teacher carder 
requirements based on the number of 
vacancies created through the retirement 
of teachers in the year 2019, the existing 
number of vacancies at present in the school 
system and the necessity of making subject 
variations in the under-privileged areas 
and calculating the teacher requirement for 
each subject and matching that number to 
the available facilities in 2016. 
  a  higher percentage of student recruitment 
will be allocated for the courses of Primary 
Education, science, mathematics and 
English to the applicants from the under- 
privileged districts of Nuwara-eliya, 
hambanthota, Jaffna, Kilinochchi, mannar,  
Vavuniya, mulaithivu, batticaloa,  ampara, 
trincomalee, Puttlam, anuradhapura, 
Polonnuruwa, badulla, monaragala and 
Ratnapura (based on the number of student 
teachers selected for each course). 
  although a large number of vacancies 
exists in the school system, the selection of 
student teachers to the National colleges of 
Education will be made in accordance with 
the facilities available in each college.   
15 dance ( bharatha) (7) sripada
(15) Jaffna
16 music (oriental) (3) mahaweli
(12) Wayamba
17 music ( carnatic) (7) sripada
(15) Jaffna
18 Western music (3) mahaweli
19 drama and theatre (3) mahaweli (9) batticaloa
(12) Wayamba
20 Physical Education (1) uva (6) Vavuniya (1) uva 
(2) Nilwala (9) batticaloa
(14) Ruhuna 
21 home Economics (14) Ruhuna (6) Vavuniya
(16) dharga town
22 agriculture and food technology (11) Pulathisipura (6) Vavuniya
23 technical studies – crafts and art (5) siyane (9) batticaloa
24 design and construction technology/ 
design and mechanical technology/ 
design and Electrical and Electronic 
technology
(5) siyane (9) batticaloa
25 information communication 
technology
(13) Ruwanpura
(19) maharagama
30 second Language  (sinhala) (3) mahaweli
31 second Language  (tamil) (3) mahaweli
32 special Education (17) hapitigam (8) addalaichenai
(19) maharagama (15) Jaffna
Course 
Number
Course Name Names and Numbers of NCoEEs by Courses medium wise
Sinhala medium Tamil medium English medium
i ii iii iv v

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2065
    6.1.1.1  accordingly, the recruitment in 
2016 will be made on two bases as 
mentioned below :
 (i)   if the number of applicants 
recruited is fifty (50) or less, 
the applicants with the highest 
qualification based on Z-Score 
will be selected from the 
twenty five (25) districts in the 
island or the districts where the 
subject is taught in the relevant 
medium.
 (ii)   if the number of applicants 
recruited is more than fifty 
(50), 50% of applicants will 
be selected on the basis of 
secretarial divisions and the 
remaining 50% will be selected 
on district basis. 
  (if the number of applicants 
recruited for sri Pada National 
college of Education is fifty 
(50) or less for a particular 
course, the applicants with 
the highest qualifications and 
highest rank of Z-score will 
be recruited from the Estate 
district. if the number of 
applicants recruited for sri 
Pada National college of 
Education is more than fifty 
(50) for a particular course, 
50% of the applicants will 
be selected on the basis of 
secretarial divisions in Estate 
districts and the remaining 
50% will be selected on the 
Estate district basis).
 6.1.2  the basis of selection except for catholicism/ 
christianity (sinhala medium) course and 
Physical Education course will be the order 
of the Z-score obtained at G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination in 2014 as stipulated in 6.1.1.1 
in this Gazette notification.  
  When the selections are made on the 
basis of Z-score, if one student should be 
selected out of several students who have 
obtained the same Z-score in the relevant 
secretarial division or district/two or 
more applicants have scored the same mark 
in accordance with the 4.11.2 or 4.11.3/ 
considering the Performance of sports 
marks if one student should be selected 
out of several who have scored the same 
mark, the results obtained at the G.c.E. 
(O/L) at the first sitting will be considered. 
marks will be awarded as 04 marks for a 
distinction pass, 03 marks for a Very Good 
pass, 02 marks for a credit pass, and 01 
mark for an ordinary pass and the available 
number of vacancies will be filled based on 
the total marks obtained. the awarding of 
these marks will be limited only for eight 
(08) main subjects (as mentioned in 3.2). 
as mentioned in 4.11.2 or 4.11.3/ if marks 
of sports performance and G.c.E. (o/L) 
marks are the same, selection will be made 
on Z-score as stipulated in 6.1.1.1     
 6.1.3 applicants should reach a satisfactory 
level of performance at the Practical 
test conducted for Physical Education, 
dance (oriental), dance (baratha), 
music (oriental), music (carnatic) and 
Western music courses under the basis of 
recruitment stipulated in 6.1.1.1.
 6.1.4
 6.1.4.1 If the expected number of qualified 
applicants is not available in each 
secretarial division, selections will 
be made considering the district 
performances or the provincial 
performances respectively.
 6.1.4.2 When the selections are made on 
district basis, if the required number 
of qualified applicants is not available, 
the provincial performance of the 
applicants will be considered.
 6.2 Determination of Permanent Residence  – 
 6.2.1 in the secretarial division based 
recruitment, the secretarial division of 
the applicant should be the secretarial 
division in which the applicant 
permanently resided in the year he/
she appeared for the G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination in the first sitting and the 
two years immediately preceding to that. 
 6.2.2 in the district basis, the applicant’s 
district should be the district in which 
the applicant appeared for the G.c.E. 
(A/L) Examination in the first sitting and 
the two years immediately preceding to 
that. 

<!-- page 40 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2066
•	 the province in which the applicant 
permanently resided in the year he/
she appeared for the G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination in the first sitting and the 
two years immediately preceding to that 
will be considered as the province of the 
applicant in determining the provincial 
rank.
•	 Applicants should confirm their 
permanent residence by certified copies 
of electoral registers as per the procedure 
of recruitment. 
•	 In case that the applicant fails to confirm 
their permanent residence of three 
years or several of the years by certified 
copies of electoral registers, acceptable 
reasons should be provided for being 
unable to register in the electorate in the 
‘Certificate on Residence and Character’ 
issued by the Grama Niladhari (ds 04) 
under the column ‘other information’ 
with the signature of the Grama Niladhari 
of the division where the  applicant’s 
permanent  residence is and counter 
signed by the divisional secretary.
•	 in case of the years of which the 
applicant was unable to register in the 
electoral register due to being underage, 
permanent residence of the applicant in 
such years should be confirmed by the 
copies of electoral registers in which the 
names of the applicant’s parents appear.
•	 applicants those who resided with a 
guardian other than the parents during the 
concerned period of time should confirm 
permanent residence by including such 
guardianship under the column ‘other 
information’ in the ‘Certificate on 
Residence and character’ issued by the 
Grama Niladhari (ds 04). in case of the 
years of which the applicant was unable 
to register in the electoral register, 
permanent residence of the applicant 
in such years should be confirmed by 
certified copies of electoral registers 
in which the names of the applicant’s 
guardian appear.
•	 in case that the applicant is able to 
confirm permanent residence only of 
one or two years, permanent residence 
of the remaining year/years should 
be confirmed by other acceptable 
documents (e.g. Certificate issued by 
the Grama Niladhari, address in the 
National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons).
 6.2.3  for the applicants those who are unable 
to confirm permanent residence under 
6.2.1/6.2.2 or Province, the secretarial 
division/district/Province in which 
the school/Examination center the 
applicant appeared for the G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination in the first sitting was 
located will be considered the secretarial 
division/district/Province of permanent 
residence of the applicant.
6.3  Selection for Sri Pada National College of 
Education
 6.3.1 75% of the vacancies will be filled out of the 
applicants of the indian tamil origin and 
25% out of sinhalese applicants. 
 6.3.1.1 based on the required number of 
vacancies prevailing in the secretarial 
divisions of the plantation districts/
those districts 35% of the candidates 
will be allocated to the secretarial 
divisions of moneragala, badulla and 
Ratnapura districts/those districts.
6.3.2
 6.3.2.1 applications for admission to sri Pada 
National college of Education will 
be entertained only from the children 
whose parents are estate workers and 
residents in the secretarial divisions of 
the plantation districts; Nuwara Eliya, 
Kandy, matale, badulla, moneragala, 
Ratnapura, Kegalle, Kalutara, matara, 
Galle and Kurunegala/those plantation 
districts. Priority will be given to 
children of the workers who work 
at present and the children of estate 
workers living in estates after serving 
for at least 25 years in the estate sector 
and retired/ passed away/ left service on 
medical reasons during 2005 – 2014 .
 6.3.2.2 In case of insufficient number of 
applicants as per 6.3.2.1, applications 
from the children of the estate workers 
who worked continuously at least 
for 05, 04, 03 years after 2005 will 
be considered even if they are not 
employed at the moment. (Priority is 
given respectively as 2014, 2013, 2012.)  

<!-- page 41 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2067
   6.3.2.3 In case of insufficient number of 
applicants qualified in Tamil medium 
as mentioned above, applicants those 
who are not the children of employees 
in the plantation sector, but of indian 
origin living in secretarial divisions 
of the above mentioned districts/those 
districts, will be considered.      
 6.3.2.4 In case of insufficiency of qualified 
applicants under the above category too, 
tamil medium applicants with indian 
origin who are from other districts/
secretarial divisions of other districts 
will be considered. 
 6.3.2.5 t amil medium applicants with indian 
origin, living in secretarial divisions 
of plantation districts/plantation 
districts or secretarial divisions of other 
districts/other districts should have 
passed in three subjects at G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination.
 6.3.2.6 In case of insufficient number of 
sinhala medium applicants from estate 
workers’ children of plantation districts/ 
secretarial divisions of those districts, 
the rest of the vacancies will be filled 
out of those who have applied for the 
same course in sri Pada/other National 
colleges of Education. the basis of the 
selection will be the Z-score.  
 
 6.3.3  at the interview, the children of the 
employees in the state and Private sector 
Estate companies should submit relevant 
documents out of the documents mentioned 
below to confirm that they are children of 
estate workers.
•	 a letter from the Estate superintendent 
relating to current service (with 
relevant time duration) that the parent is 
permanently and continuously serving 
and residing in estates. 
•	 a letter from the Estate superintendent 
confirming the current permanent  
residence of the family members of 
estate workers those who have resigned 
from service due to medical reasons/
retired/passed away during 2005-2014 
after serving in estate sector for 25 years. 
Permanent residence in the estate at 
present and the year and date of retirement/
resignation should be clearly mentioned in 
the letter.
•	 a letter from the Estate superintendent 
confirming the continuous service for 
a period of past 05 years or more in 
plantation sector workers who retired/
resigned in or after 2005. (indicating year 
and date clearly). 
•	 Letters including Registration Numbers to 
prove that deductions are being made for 
the Employees’ Provident fund. 
 6.3.4  Applicants should submit an affidavit at the 
interview declaring to serve a period of ten 
(10) years continuously in the schools in the 
plantation sector after the course.
Note - in the case of an applicant having an indian 
tamil origin who had studied in sinhala 
medium, they will be considered for the 
percentage entitled to indian tamil origin. 
similarly, a sinhalese applicant who had 
studied in tamil medium will be considered 
for the sinhala medium percentage.
7.0  Other matters related to selection
7.1 selected applicants should be prepared to 
submit acceptable evidence and originals of 
certificates to confirm their eligibility on the 
date of interview. a number of applicants 
three times as the number of applicants to be 
recruited in each secretarial division/district 
will be called for the interview. those who fail 
to appear in the interview without informing 
an acceptable reason on due date, are 
considered as absentees and their opportunity 
will be filled with other applicants from the 
same secretarial division/district based on the 
order of qualifications. Absentees will not be 
reconsidered. 
7.2 it is mandatory to submit all original 
certificates at the Interview. Those who fail to 
do so will not be selected.
7.3 Mental and physical fitness required by an 
applicant for reaching the expected level in the 
course and to enter the teaching Profession 
will be checked by the interview board at the 
first interview following the criteria given 
by the ministry of Education. the interview 

<!-- page 42 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2068
board will submit their recommendations on 
whether the applicant possesses the required 
mental and physical fitness to enter the 
teaching Profession.
7.4 selected applicants according to section 
7.3, will be notified through registered 
post. accuracy of the submitted details will 
be reconfirmed by an interview board in 
the registration at the National college of 
Education. those who fail to register at the 
relevant National colleges of Education 
within 10 working days of the due date will be 
deprived of the opportunity for the admission. 
The vacancies created thereby, will be filled 
according to the performance order, subjected 
to the provisions stipulated in the recruitment 
procedure.
   
7.4.1 hence, it is emphasized that there is no 
any opportunity to consider appeals of 
the applicants who are not registered 
within said dates.  
 Specific situations for which an 
interview board is unable to submit 
recommendations will be directed 
to a special board. the report 
of the special board will be put 
forward to the colleges of Education 
board/secretary to the ministry of 
Education for the final decision. 
7.5  Selected applicants through the first and 
second interviews are required to appear 
for a medical Examination before their 
admission to the colleges of Education for 
the certification of their health condition. 
7.6 after the admission to any course/National 
college of Education, permission will not 
be granted to change such course/National 
college of Education. If a sufficient number 
of applicants are not available for a particular 
course, the applicants will be transferred to 
the nearest college of Education where the 
same course is in function. 
7.7 the authority of the final decision regarding 
cancellation of a course for which a required 
number of teacher vacancies does not exist, 
determination of the number of student 
teachers recruited and placement of courses 
in National colleges of Education is held by 
colleges of Education board/secretary to the 
ministry of Education. 
8.0  Persons who are not eligible for applying or 
admission.
 8.1  those who have already obtained teaching 
appointments in Government schools, 
Government aided schools, Government 
Registered Pirivena or other approved 
institutions.
 8.2  those who have been selected for an 
appointment in a Government school.
 8.3  those who are following or who have 
followed a course in a college of Education 
or those who have deserted a course in a 
National college of Education.
 8.4  those who are following or have registered for 
or followed a degree course or have registered 
for or followed a Professional course/higher 
diploma under ‘free Education’, registered 
as an internal student in a university or 
university institute or any other higher 
Education institute where G.c.E. (a/L) is the 
entry requirement. (students, who withdraw 
the registration after the Gazette Notification 
is published, will not be eligible for applying 
or admission.) applicants who get registered 
and withdraw their registration of the above 
institutions after the Gazette Notification is 
published/appearing in the interview too will 
not be eligible for admission.
 8.5 student teachers whose registration in a 
National college of Education has been 
terminated on disciplinary grounds.  
        
 8.6  applicants those who are married or engaged 
to marry or divorced. 
9.0  Conditions applicable for the course.
 9.1  duration of a course is three years. this period 
consists of two year residential institutional 
training in the National college of Education 
and one year internship training attached to a 
school. attendance of a student teacher should 
be not less than 90% to enable him/ her to sit 
for the External final Examination conducted 
by the department of Examinations at the end 
of the second year.

<!-- page 43 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2069
 9.2 Every student teacher should pass in the 
internal continuous assessments and the 
Internal Tests held in the first and the second 
year and the External final Examination 
conducted by the department of Examinations. 
Except those who follow English medium 
courses, all those who follow other courses 
should pass in the English subject at the above 
examinations. 
 9.3 during the period of two year residential 
course of study, a student teacher will be 
provided with meals and lodging facilities to 
the value of Rs. 3,500/ per month for ten (10) 
months in a year. during the internship year, 
a monthly allowance of Rs. 4,000/- will be 
paid for ten (10) months. other expenses for 
personal requirements should be borne by the 
student teacher.
 9.4 student teachers who register in a National 
college of Education should sign in a bond 
and agreement to the value of five hundred 
thousand Rupees (Rs. 500,000.00) for the 
expenditure made by the government for 
the course of the applicant and the provision 
of other infra structure facilities.  if the 
candidates give up the course within sixty 
(60) calendar days of registration at the 
National college of Education, they are 
allowed to do so after paying the sum spent 
by the government for the student teacher. 
if the candidates give up the course after 
sixty (60) calendar days of registration at the 
National college of Education, they should 
pay the whole sum mentioned in the bond 
and the agreement (Rs. 500, 000.00). those 
who do not serve the government for five 
(05) years after successfully completing the 
course should pay the sum for the remaining 
period (counted in months) to complete 05 
years. it is calculated as below;
  Rs. 500, 000    × remaining number of   
   60 months          months to complete
 9.4.1 if a candidate gives up the course due 
to special medical reasons during the 
training, the following documentary 
evidence should be submitted to prove 
the existing condition of the ailment.
  acceptable records of diagnosis, 
medical checkups and prescriptions.
  a letter of a government medical 
officer confirming the inability of 
the student teacher to continue the 
course of study further.
  management board of the particular 
National college of Education will 
forward their observations and 
recommendations after checking 
the above documents. considering 
the above recommendations, a 
board consisting of officials of the 
ministry of Education and a board 
of medical officers will submit their 
recommendations for the approval 
of the colleges of Education 
board/ secretary to the ministry of 
Education. With this approval, the 
student teacher will be permitted to 
resign from the course with no any 
payment. 
 9.4.2 No student teacher is permitted to go 
abroad during the course or the period 
till permanent appointment, except 
when duly resigned.  
 9.5  if a student teacher’s registration is terminated 
on disciplinary grounds or being found out 
that he/she has submitted false information, 
the student teacher will be surcharged the 
whole amount incurred for him/her in the 
bond (Rs.500, 000.00).
 9.6 during the period of course a student teacher 
will not be allowed to follow a course 
mentioned in section 8.4. if it is found out 
that a student teacher is following such a 
course, the sum of the bond and agreement 
(Rs.500, 000.00) incurred for him/her will 
be surcharged and the student teacher’s 
registration will be terminated. 
 9.7 if the student teacher gets married/engaged 
to marry during the period of course or found 
out to be married/engaged to marry /divorced 
before the registration for the course, the 
studentship will be terminated. those who get 
divorced giving various reasons after being 
found out to be married too will not be given 
studentship. if the clergy that are recruited 
under special provisions for those who hold 
priesthood are disrobed within the period of 
course the sum of the bond and agreement 

<!-- page 44 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2070
(Rs.500, 000.00) incurred for him/her will 
be surcharged and the studentship will be 
terminated. the clergy of any religion should 
sign a bond and agreement with the ministry 
of Education for at least 5 years’ service 
without being disrobed.  if disrobed for any 
reason, the amount for the remaining number 
of years (counted in months) should be paid 
to the government. it is calculated as below :
  Rs. 5,00,000    × remaining number of   
  60 months          months to complete
 NOTE –
 if disrobed during the probation period, such 
clergy will be surcharged the  relevant amount 
and dismissed.   
 9.8 if a student teacher fails to exhibit the progress 
expected in his general conduct, enthusiasm 
and studies during the study course (inclusive 
of co-curricular activities), their studentship 
will be terminated. Likewise, studentship 
of those who do not reach a satisfactory 
level in the assessment during the first year 
of academic training will be terminated. 
decision of the colleges of Education board/ 
secretary to the ministry of Education shall 
be final, regarding these matters. 
 9.9 if any complaints are received in relation to 
the physical and mental fitness of the student 
teacher either by the President of the college 
during the course or by the Principal of the 
school during the internship period the student 
teacher will be referred to a special interview 
board. final decision will be taken after the 
submission of that report to the colleges of 
Education board/ secretary to the ministry of 
Education. 
 9.10 if the student teacher is proved to have engaged 
themselves in any action against the code of 
conduct of National colleges of Education, 
colleges of Education board/secretary to the 
ministry of Education holds the authority of 
taking disciplinary action such as suspension 
to academic classes/extension of the course/ 
termination of studentship/any other suitable 
punishment under the recommendation of the 
disciplinary board of the particular National 
college of Education.
 9.11 student teachers are not permitted to follow 
any other course during weekdays or at 
weekends outside the college. 
 9.12 if the teacher, for any reason, resigns or goes 
abroad within the first five years of service 
as a holder of National diploma in teaching, 
they should pay the amount for the remaining 
time (calculated in months) out of the whole 
amount mentioned in the bond and the 
agreement (Rs. 5,00,000) to the government. 
it is calculated as below :
  Rs. 5,00, 000   × remaining number of   
 60 months          months to complete
NOTE –
 Those who resign during the first five years 
of service as mentioned in 9.12 will not be 
permitted to re-enter service as a holder of 
National diploma in teaching.
 based on section 9.12, in addition to bond and 
the agreement, rules and regulations stipulated 
in Establishment code are applicable to those 
who go abroad during the probation period of 
the teaching appointment.
  those who expect to go abroad after the 
probation period, are allowed to do so enjoying 
the privileges of  regular government servants, 
after paying the remaining sum  as mentioned 
in section 9.12.
 9.13 National diploma in teaching will be 
awarded to the student teachers who will 
successfully complete the course. course 
work and Personality development (inclusive 
of compulsory co-curricular activities) will 
be continuously assessed during the period 
of course and this assessment will form 
a component of the final assessment in 
awarding the diploma.
 9.14 applicants successfully completing this 
course will be given appointments as 
government teachers. they should agree to 
serve in any secretarial division/ district/
province of the island if there are no vacancies 
in the relevant secretarial division/district/
province though they have been recruited on 
secretarial division/district/provincial basis. 
colleges of Education board/secretary to the 
ministry holds the authority of placement.

<!-- page 45 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2071
 9.14.1 the applicants who are called for 
interviews for recruitment should   
appear for the interview only if they 
agree to the above conditions.
 9.14.2  applicants who follow the course 
under the above conditions should 
teach the same subject that they are 
studying. in addition to that, after 
completing the National diploma 
in teaching, the applicants who are 
recruited on secretarial division/
district/Provincial basis should 
sign a bond and agreement with the 
secretary to the ministry of Education 
stating that they will serve in the 
relevant secretarial division/district/
Province which they get their first 
appointment for a minimum period 
of five (05) years from the date of 
appointment as a condition of service. 
the secretarial division/district/
Province which the appointment has 
been given will not be changed for 
any reason within these five (05) 
years.  
 9.15 if any applicant claims to change the selected 
National college of Education on medical/ 
personal reasons, they will not be eligible for 
admission. 
 9.16 Any improper influence made to the relevant 
officials by the applicant himself/ herself or 
any other party related to the applicant during 
the recruitment procedure will be considered 
a disqualification in recruitment.
 9.17 All educational and other qualifications 
should have been completed on or before the 
last date of calling for applications.
10.0 Applying :
 Applications should be prepared with a good 
understanding of the number recruited for 
each course on Secretarial Division/District 
basis mentioned in chapters 7.0, 7.1 and 7.2  of 
‘Instruction to Prepare the Application’.
 10.1 an applicant can apply for a maximum of three 
(03) courses. if applied for the same course 
in two media, it is considered as applying for 
two courses. such applicants can apply only 
for one more course. those who are bearing 
priesthood in a religion should apply for the 
course pertaining to their religion only.
  example.– a candidate applying for science 
course both in  English and  sinhala media is 
considered to have applied for two courses.  
therefore, he/she can apply only for one more 
course.
 10.2 an applicant can send only one application. if 
any applicant has sent more than one application 
all the applications will be rejected.  only the 
applicants who apply for buddhism, hinduism, 
islam, catholicism / christianity, Physical 
Education, technical studies – crafts and art, 
design and construction technology/ design 
and mechanical technology/ design and 
Electrical and Electronic technology, Western 
Music must enclose two certified photocopies of 
the application in the same envelope. 
 10.3 application should be prepared according to the 
specimen form and instructions given below.
 10.4 applications should be sent under registered 
post addressed to chief commissioner (teacher 
Education), National colleges of Education 
branch, ministry of Education, isurupaya, 
battaramulla to be received on or before 
30.09.2016.
Specimen of the envelope in which the application 
should be enclosed is as follows:
application for admission to National colleges of Education in 2016 
Course Number indicated as first preference …….Medium...........
applying to sri Pada National college of Education : yes / No
  
chief commissioner (teacher Education), 
National colleges of Education branch, 
ministry of Education, 
isurupaya, 
battaramulla
(it is emphasized that applications should not be sent 
to department of Examinations or National colleges of 
Education) 
 10.5 it is compulsory to keep a photo copy of 
completed application with the applicant. 
the postal receipt of registration issued in 
forwarding the application and a photo copy 
of the application should be submitted in all 
instances of making inquiries or submitting 
appeals. 
 10.6 applications which do not clearly indicate the 
index Number, y ear, Number and the Name 
of the course as well as the incomplete and 
informal applications will be rejected.

<!-- page 46 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2072
 10.7 ministry of Education will not be responsible 
for the inconveniences faced by those applicants 
who apply without fulfilling the qualifications 
mentioned in the Gazette Notification for the 
courses.
 10.8 Receipt or rejection of applications will not 
be acknowledged. appling for a course/being 
called for an interview is not a qualification for 
the recruitment. Recruitment is made only by 
considering the vacancies and the requirements 
of the district/ secretarial division. colleges of 
Education board/secretary to the ministry of 
Education is authorized for all decisions. 
 10.9 No other document should be attached to the 
application except when specifically mentioned
 10.10 If any certificate submitted by the applicant is 
revealed later to be forged or fraudulent, the 
applicant’s studentship will be terminated. if in 
service, they will be dismissed and will further 
be ineligible for any post in Public service.
11.0 Regarding any problems or specific situations 
arising with regard to the above information in this 
Gazette Notification, the decision of the Colleges 
of Education board/ secretary to the ministry of 
Education will be the final decision.
12.0 in the event of any inconsistency between sinhala 
and tamil or English texts of this Gazette 
Notification, the Sinhala Text shall prevail.  
    
 s. s. 
hettiarachchi,
 secretary,
 ministry of Education.
ministry of Education,
isurupaya,
battaramulla.
05th september, 2016.
Instructions for the preparation of Application form
1.0 Read the Gazette Notification very carefully. 
apply only for three courses to which you are 
eligible in one application. applicants applying 
for the courses of buddhism, hinduism, islam, 
catholicism/ christianity, Physical Education, 
technical studies – crafts and art, design 
and construction technology/ design and 
mechanical technology/ design and Electrical 
and Electronic technology, Western music must 
enclose only two (02) certified photocopies of the 
application along with original application in the 
same envelope. (school applicants should get the 
photo copies certified by the Principal while the 
private applicants should get them certified by a 
Justice of Peace.)
2.0 Application should be prepared in a (Legal) f5 
size white paper (21.8 x 34 c. m.) in conformity 
with the specimen form. Paragraphs 1.0 to 
9.8 should be included in the first page. if 
information should be provided in a cage, mark 
“x” in the relevant cage.
3.0 Please note that the computerized data sheets 
which will be used for calling applicants for the 
interview relating to each course are prepared 
based on the information provided in sections 
1.0 to 9.8 in the first page of the application. 
Especially, the course Number, course Name, 
secretarial division and district according to 
Para. 6.2.1 and 6.2.2, index Number of G.c.E. 
(A/L) and Z-Score should be confirmed as 
accurate. Please note that the application is liable 
to be rejected owing to overlapped writing and 
illegible and erroneous writing.
4.0 the information furnished in paragraph 12.0 
for Physical Education course, paragraph 
13.0 for buddhism course, paragraph 14.0 for 
catholicism/ christianity course, paragraph 15.0 
for hinduism/ islam course, paragraph 16.0 for 
technical studies – crafts and art/ design and 
construction technology/ design and mechanical 
technology/ design and Electrical and Electronic 
technology course and paragraph l7.0 for Western 
music course are considered in processing the 
applications. therefore, these sections should 
be completed with accurate information because 
the applicants will not be allowed to change such 
information under any circumstances.
5.0 Numbers assigned to the Districts and 
Secretarial Divisions relevant to paragraph 
6.2.1 and 6.2.2 are indicated below : 
District 
and Number
Name and Number of the 
Secretarial Division relevant to 
the  District
colombo - 01 colombo 0101
dehiwala-mount Lavinia 0102
Kolonnawa 0103
sri Jayawardanapura 
Kotte (Nugegoda) 0104
Rathmalana 0105
moratuwa 0106
homagama 0107
maharagama 0108
Kesbewa 0109
Kaduwela 0110

<!-- page 47 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2073
colombo 01 (Contd.)hanwella (seethawaka) 0111
Padukka 0112
thimbirigasyaya 0113
Gampaha - 02 Gampaha 0201
attanagalla 0202
meerigama (Pasyala) 0203
mahara 0204
dompe (Weke) 0205
biyagama 0206
Kelaniya 0207
minuwangoda 0208
Katana (seeduwa) 0209
Negombo 0210
divulapitiya 0211
Wattala 0212
Ja-Ela 0213
Kalutara - 03 Kalutara 0301
bandaragama 0302
horana 0303
beruwala 0304
Panadura 0305
dodamgoda 0306
mathugama 0307
bulathsinghala 0308
agalawatta 0309
Walallawita 0310
madurawala 0311
millaniya 0312
Palindanuwara 
(baduraliya) 0313
ingiriya 0314
Kandy - 04
Kandy four Gravets and 
Gangawata Korale 0401
yatinuwara 0402
Pathahewaheta 0403
udapalatha (Gampola) 0404
udunuwara 0405
Ganga ihala Korale 0406
Pasbage Korale 0407
harispattuwa 
(Katugasthota) 0408
minipe 0409
medadumbara 
(Karaliyadda) 0410
Kundasale 0411
thumpane (Galagedara) 0412
Poojapitiya 0413
akurana 0414
Pathadumbara 
(Wattegama) 0415
Panwila 0416
udadumbara 0417
delthota 0418
doluwa 0419
hatharaliyadda 0420
matale - 05 matale 0501
Rattota 0502
Wilgamuwa 0503
Laggala (Pallegama) 0504
ambanganga Korale 0505
Galewela 0506
dambulla 0507
Naula 0508
Pallepola 0509
yatawatta 0510
ukuwela 0511
District 
and Number
Name and Number of the 
Secretarial Division relevant to 
the  District
District 
and Number
Name and Number of the 
Secretarial Division relevant to 
the  District

<!-- page 48 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2074
Nuwara Eliya - 06 Nuwara Eliya 0601
ambagamuwa (hatton) 0602
Walapane 0603
Kothmale 0604
hanguranketha 0605
Galle - 07 Galle four Gravets 0701
habaraduwa 
(talpepattuva south) 0702
akmeemana 0703
hikkaduwa 0704
bope-Poddala 0705
Elpitiya 0706
ambalangoda 0707
bentota 0708
Karandeniya 0709
balapitiya 0710
Nagoda (mapalagama) 0711
Niyagama 0712
yakkalamulla (udugama 
talpepattuva North) 0713
thawalama 0714
baddegama (Ganga 
bada Pattuva south) 0715
Neluwa (hiniduma 
Pattuva - batuwangala) 0716
imaduwa 0717
Welivitiya-divithura 0718
Gonapinuwala 0719
matara - 08 matara four Gravets 0801
Weligama 0802
Welipitiya 0803
devinuwara 0804
dickwella 0805
akuressa (Waligama 
Korale-North) 0806
thihagoda (Ganga bada 
Pattuva-south) 0807
hakmana 0808
mulatiyana 0809
matara - 08 (Contd.) Kamburupitiya 0810
malimboda 0811
Pitabeddara (morawaka 
Korale south) 0812
Pasgoda (urubokka 
morawaka Korale – 
East) 0813
Kotapola 0814
athuraliya 0815
Kirinda - Puhulwella 0816
hambantota - 09 tangalle 0901
beliatta 0902
Katuwana 0903
Weeraketiya 0904
hambantota 0905
angunakolapelessa 0906
thissamaharama 0907
ambalanthota 0908
Lunugamwehera 0909
okewela 0910
sooriyawewa 0911
Walasmulla 0912
Jaffna - 10 Jaffna 1001
Nallur 1002
thenmarachchi 
(chavakachcheri) 1003
delft 1004
islands North (Kayts) 1005
Vadamarachchy-East 
(maruthankerny) 1006
Vadamarachchy-North 
(Point Pedro) 1007
Vadamarachchi-south 
West (Karaveddy) 1008
Valikamam-East (Kopay) 1009
Valikamam-south 
(uduvil) 1010
District 
and Number
Name and Number of the 
Secretarial Division relevant to 
the  District
District 
and Number
Name and Number of the 
Secretarial Division relevant to 
the  District

<!-- page 49 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2075
Jaffna - 10 (Contd.)
Valikamam-West 
(chankanai) 1011
Valikamam-south West 
(sandilipay) 1012
Valikamam-North 
(tellipalai) 1013
islands south (Velanai) 1014
Karainagar 1015
Kilinochchi - 11 Karachchi 1101
Kandawali 1102
Palai (Pachchilaipalli) 1103
Poonakary 1104
mannar - 12 mannar town 1201
manthai West 1202
musali 1203
Nanaattan 1204
madu 1205
Vavuniya - 13 Vavuniya south 1301
Vavuniya 1302
Vavuniya North 1303
Vengalacheddikulam 1304
mullativu - 14 maritimepattu 1401
manthai-East 1402
thunukkai 1403
Puthukudiyiruppu 1404
oddusuddan 1405
Welioya 1406
batticaloa - 15
manmunai-North 
(batticaloa  town) 1501
Eravur-Pattu 1502
Eravur town 1503
manmunai-south and 
Eruvilpattu 1504
Porativu Pattu 1505
manmunai Pattu 
(arayampathi) 1506
manmunai-south West 1507
Koralai Pattu-North 1508
batticaloa - 15
(Contd.) manmunai-West 1509
Koralai Pattu (Valachchenai)1510
Kattankudy 1511
Koralai Pattu -West 
(oddamavadi) 1512
Koralai Pattu-central 1513
Koralai Pattu-south 
(Kiran) 1514
ampara - 16 ampara 1601
uhana 1602
Padiyathalawa 1603
damana 1604
dehiattakandiya 1605
mahaoya 1606
Lahugala 1607
Kalmunai - south 1608
Kalmunai - North 1609
Ninthavur 1610
samanthurai 1611
addalachchenai 1612
akkaraipattu 1613
alayadiwembu 1614
Karativu 1615
Pothuvil 1616
thirukkovil 1617
irakkamam 1618
Navithanveli 1619
sainthamarathu 1620
trincomalee - 17
trincomalee town and 
Gravets 1701
Kantale 1702
Kinniya 1703
muttur 1704
Gomarankadawala 1705
Kuchchaveli 1706
seruvila 1707
Verugal 
(Echchilampattai) 1708
District 
and Number
Name and Number of the 
Secretarial Division relevant to 
the  District
District 
and Number
Name and Number of the 
Secretarial Division relevant to 
the  District

<!-- page 50 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2076
 
thampalakamam 
(thambalagamuwa) 1709
morawewa 1710
Padavi sri Pura 1711
Kurunegala - 18 Kurunegala 1801
Polgahawela 1802
mawathagama 1803
Rideegama 1804
ibbagamuwa 1805
alawwa 1806
Kuliyapitiya-East 
(Nakkawatta) 1807
Wariyapola 1808
Panduwasnuwara 
(hettipola) 1809
bingiriya 1810
Pannala 1811
mahawa 1812
Polpithigama 1813
Kobeigane 1814
Nikaweratiya 1815
Galgamuwa 1816
Giribawa 1817
Kuliyapitiya-West 1818
Ganewatta 1819
Kotawehera 1820
mallawapitiya 1821
maspotha 1822
Narammala 1823
Weerambugedara 1824
udubaddawa 1825
Rasnayakapura 1826
ambanpola 1827
Ehetuwewa 1828
bamunakotuwa 1829
Panduwasnuwara-East 1830
Puttalam - 19 Puttalam 1901
Nawagattegama 
(Kirimetiyana) 1902
anamaduwa 1903
Karuwalagaswewa 1904
Kalpitiya 1905
Wanathavilluwa 1906
chilaw (Pittigal) 1907
arachchikattuwa - Ps 1908
Nattandiya 1909
Wennappuwa 1910
dankotuwa 1911
madampe 1912
mahakumbukkadawala 1913
mundalama 1914
Pallama 1915
mahawewa 
(yatakalanpattu) 1916
anuradhapura - 20 Nuwaragampalatha-East 2001
Nuwaragampalatha-
central 2002
Rambewa 2003
Nochchiyagama 
(Nuwaragampalatha-
West) 2004
mahawilachchiya 2005
thambuttegama 2006
thalawa 
(Nuwaragampalatha-
south) 2007
Rajanganaya 2008
Galnewa 2009
Kekirawa 2010
Palugaswewa 2011
Palagala 2012
thirappane 2013
ipalogama 2014
Galenbindunuwewa 2015
District 
and Number
Name and Number of the 
Secretarial Division relevant to 
the  District
District 
and Number
Name and Number of the 
Secretarial Division relevant to 
the  District
trincomalee - 17
(Contd.)

<!-- page 51 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2077
Kahatagasdigiliya 2016
mihinthalaya 2017
Kebithigollewa 2018
Padaviya 2019
horowpothana 2020
medawachchiya 2021
Nachchadoowa 2022
thamankaduwa 
(Polonnaruwa) 2101
Lankapura 2102
dimbulagala 2103
hingurakgoda 
(minneriya) 2104
medirigiriya 2105
Elahera 2106
Welikanda 2107
badulla - 22 badulla 2201
Passara 2202
hali-Ela 2203
soranathota 2204
meegahakivula 
(Viyaluwa) 2205
Kandaketiya 2206
bandarawela 2207
uva Paranagama 2208
Welimada 2209
haldummulla 2210
haputale 2211
Ella 2212
mahiyanganaya 2213
Rideemaliyadda 2214
Lunugala 2215
monaragala - 23 moneragala 2301
buttala 2302
thanamalvila 2303
Wellawaya 2304
siyambalanduwa 2305
badalkumbura 2306
madulla 2307
bibile 2308
medagama 2309
Katharagama 2310
sevanagala 2311
Ratnapura - 24 Ratnapura 2401
Pelmadulla 2402
Nivithigala 2403
Eheliyagoda 2404
Kuruwita 2405
ayagama 2406
Kalawana 2407
balangoda 2408
imbulpe 2409
Weligepola 2410
Godakawela 2411
Kolonna 2412
Embilipitiya 2413
opanayaka 2414
Elapatha 2415
Kahawatta 2416
Kiriella 2417
Kegalle - 25 Kegalle 2501
Galigamuwa 2502
Warakapola 2503
Ruwanwella 2504
dehiovita 2505
deraniyagala 2506
yatiyanthota 2507
mawanella 2508
Rambukkana 2509
aranayaka 2510
bulathkohupitiya 2511
6.0 symbol for each  medium:  
 sinhala – s  t amil- t          English – E
District 
and Number
Name and Number of the 
Secretarial Division relevant to 
the  District
District 
and Number
Name and Number of the 
Secretarial Division relevant to 
the  District
anuradhapura - 20
(Contd.)
monaragala - 23
(Contd.)
Polonnaruwa - 21

<!-- page 52 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2078
Course 
No.
Medium of the Course
Name of the Course Total 
Number of 
Applicants 
Recruited 
in Sinhala 
Medium
District 
Basis
Secreta-
rial 
Division 
Basis 
Total 
Number of 
Applicants 
Recruited 
in Tamil 
Medium
District 
Basis
Secreta-
rial 
Division 
Basis 
Total 
Number of 
Applicants 
Recruited  
in english 
Medium
District 
Basis
01 Primary Education 880 440 440 340 170 170 - - -
02 science 146 73 73 166 83 83 70 35 35
03 mathematics 160 80 80 90 45 45 70 35 35
04 social science - - - 25 25 - - - -
05 buddhism 90 45 45 - - - - - -
06 hinduism - - - 30 30 - - - -
07 islam - - - 25 25 - - - -
08 catholicism / christianity 35 35 - 30 30 - - - -
09 first Language (sinhala) 80 40 40 - - - - - -
10 first Language (tamil) - - - 136 68 68 - - -
11 English - - - - - - 370 185 185
13 art 50 50 - 45 45 - - - -
14 dance (oriental) 40 40 - - - - - - -
15 dance ( bharatha) - - - 30 30 - - - -
16 music (oriental) 40 40 - - - - - - -
17 Western music - - - - - - 20 20 -
18 music ( carnatic) - - - 35 35 - - - -
19 drama and theatre 40 40 - 30 30 - - - -
20 Physical Education 140 70 70 80 40 40 20 20 -
21 home Economics 30 30 - 50 50 - - - -
22 agriculture and food technology 40 40 - 30 30 - - - -
23 technical studies - crafts and art 15 15 - 15 15 - - - -
24 design and technology 45 45 - 45 45 - - - -
25 information communication 
technology
- - - - - - 300 150 150
30 second Language  (sinhala) 50 50 - - - - - - -
31 second Language  (tamil) - - - 40 40 - - - -
32 special Education 66 33 33 30 30 - - - -
Secreta-
rial 
Division 
Basis
7.0 Number of Applicants Recruited to the National Colleges of Education on District basis and Secretarial Division basis for the year 2016
Prepared on the existing capacity in National colleges of Education.
Note :
Number of applicants recruited to the National colleges of Education for the year 2016 on district basis and 
secretarial division basis has been mentioned below medium wise separately.
Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium english Medium

<!-- page 53 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2079
Course 
No.
Medium of the Course
Name of the Course Total 
Number of 
Applicants 
Recruited 
in Sinhala 
Medium
District 
Basis
Secreta-
rial 
Division 
Basis 
Total 
Number of 
Applicants 
Recruited 
in Tamil 
Medium
District 
Basis
Secreta-
rial 
Division 
Basis 
Total 
Number of 
Applicants 
Recruited  
in english 
Medium
District 
Basis
01 Primary Education 880 440 440 340 170 170 - - -
02 science 146 73 73 166 83 83 70 35 35
03 mathematics 160 80 80 90 45 45 70 35 35
04 social science - - - 25 25 - - - -
05 buddhism 90 45 45 - - - - - -
06 hinduism - - - 30 30 - - - -
07 islam - - - 25 25 - - - -
08 catholicism / christianity 35 35 - 30 30 - - - -
09 first Language (sinhala) 80 40 40 - - - - - -
10 first Language (tamil) - - - 136 68 68 - - -
11 English - - - - - - 370 185 185
13 art 50 50 - 45 45 - - - -
14 dance (oriental) 40 40 - - - - - - -
15 dance ( bharatha) - - - 30 30 - - - -
16 music (oriental) 40 40 - - - - - - -
17 Western music - - - - - - 20 20 -
18 music ( carnatic) - - - 35 35 - - - -
19 drama and theatre 40 40 - 30 30 - - - -
20 Physical Education 140 70 70 80 40 40 20 20 -
21 home Economics 30 30 - 50 50 - - - -
22 agriculture and food technology 40 40 - 30 30 - - - -
23 technical studies - crafts and art 15 15 - 15 15 - - - -
24 design and technology 45 45 - 45 45 - - - -
25 information communication 
technology
- - - - - - 300 150 150
30 second Language  (sinhala) 50 50 - - - - - - -
31 second Language  (tamil) - - - 40 40 - - - -
32 special Education 66 33 33 30 30 - - - -
district
Western colombo 29 6 9 6 4 2 5 3 3 3 6 3 2 2 8 4 2
Gampaha 30 3 3 4 3 3 2 2 2 2 7 2 3 1 5 5 4
Kalutara 13 1 2 3 2 1 2 2 1 2 5 2 1 1 3 3 2
central Kandy 11 5 4 4 2 3 4 3 2 2 3 2 4 1 3 3 2
matale 8 2 1 1 1 1 3 1 2 1 2 2 1 1 3 1 1
Nuwara Eliya 3 1 2 1 1 1 2 3 3 3 2 1 1 - 1 1 1
southern Galle 29 3 5 2 2 3 4 3 1 1 4 3 2 1 2 3 1
matara 13 4 4 3 1 2 3 2 1 1 3 2 3 1 1 2 2
hambantota 42 1 3 1 1 2 3 2 1 1 2 1 4 1 1 3 1
Nothern Jaffna - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Kilinochchi - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
mannar 3 2 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Vavuniya 5 2 1 - - - - - - - 1 - - - - - 1
mullativu 6 1 4 - - 1 1 - - 1 1 - - - 1 - -
Eastern batticaloa - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
ampara 30 5 7 2 1 2 1 1 1 1 3 - 1 - 1 1 1
trincomalee 14 4 4 1 1 - - 1 - 1 1 - 1 - - 1 1
North 
Western
Kurunegala 26 1 2 5 3 4 4 3 3 3 7 2 3 2 3 4 3
Puttalam 55 4 9 1 4 2 1 2 3 2 4 1 1 1 1 3 2
North 
central
anuradhapura 14 6 4 2 2 2 3 2 3 4 3 1 2 1 2 3 2
Polonnaruwa 9 8 2 1 1 2 2 2 3 3 2 1 1 - 1 1 1
uva badulla 20 5 3 2 2 2 3 3 3 3 3 2 3 - 4 2 1
monaragala 25 4 4 1 1 2 2 1 2 2 3 1 3 1 1 2 1
Ratnapura 40 1 4 3 1 3 3 2 3 2 4 2 2 1 2 5 2
Kegalle 15 4 2 2 2 2 2 2 3 2 4 2 2 - 2 3 2
total 440 73 80 45 35 40 50 40 40 40 70 30 40 15 45 50 33
Province 
 
  Name of the Course
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics
Buddhism 
Catholicism/Christianity
First Language (Sinhala)
Art
Dance (Oriental)
Music (Oriental)
Drama and Theatre
Physical education 
Home economics
Agriculture and Food 
Technology
Technical Studies - Crafts and 
Art
Design and Technology
Second Language (Sinhala)
Special education
7.1 Number of Applicants Recruited to the National Colleges of Education on District Basis for the 
Year 2016
7.1.1 Sinhala Medium 
sabaraga-
muwa

<!-- page 54 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2080
 
district 
colombo 11 6 1 1 2 1 1 - 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 3 2 1
Gampaha 6 2 2 - - 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 - 1 - -
Kalutara 9 3 2 - - 2 - 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 2 - 2 - 1
Kandy 10 4 3 1 1 2 1 3 3 2 2 2 2 3 2 - 2 - 1
matale 7 3 1 1 - - 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 - 1 1 1
Nuwara Eliya 4 1 1 2 1 - 1 1 2 1 2 1 3 1 1 - 2 4 2
Galle 2 1 - - - - - - 1 - - - - - 1 - - - -
matara 3 2 1 - - - - 1 1 - - 1 - - 1 - - - -
hambantota 3 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Jaffna 18 9 5 4 9 - 4 11 5 3 4 2 6 9 3 2 5 11 3
Kilinochchi 5 6 2 1 3 - 2 6 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 1 3 3 1
mannar 10 5 1 2 1 - 3 5 2 2 3 2 2 2 1 1 3 2 1
Vavuniya 15 5 2 1 3 2 2 4 2 2 3 1 2 4 1 1 2 2 2
mullativu 12 5 1 1 1 - 1 3 2 1 2 2 2 3 1 1 3 3 1
batticaloa 9 6 4 3 2 1 3 5 2 2 3 2 3 9 1 2 4 3 2
ampara 5 3 2 1 1 3 1 5 2 2 2 1 2 3 2 1 3 2 3
trincomalee 13 3 4 3 3 4 3 6 2 2 1 1 3 8 1 2 3 3 3
Kurunegala 11 9 5 1 1 1 1 3 2 1 1 2 2 - 1 - 1 - 1
Puttalam 2 1 1 - 2 1 2 3 2 1 1 2 2 1 1 - 1 1 1
anuradhapura 1 1 1 - - 2 - 1 2 1 1 1 1 - 1 1 - - 1
Polonnaruwa 1 1 - - - - - 1 1 1 1 1 - - 1 - - - 1
badulla 1 1 1 1 - 2 1 3 2 1 1 1 1 - - 1 2 1 1
monaragala 1 1 1 - - - - 1 1 - - - 1 - 1 - 1 - 1
Ratnapura 2 1 1 1 - 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 - 1 1 2 1 1
Kegalle 9 3 3 1 - 2 1 2 2 1 1 1 1 - 1 - 1 1 1
total 170 83 45 25 30 25 30 68 45 30 35 30 40 50 30 15 45 40 30
Province 
 
  Name of the Course
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics
Social Science 
Hinduism
Islam
Catholicism/Christianity
First Language (Tamil)
Art
Dance (Bharatha)
Music (Carnatic)
Drama and Theatre
Physical education 
Home economics
Agriculture and Food Technology
Technical Studies - Crafts and Art
Design and Technology
Second Language (Tamil)
Special education
7.1 Number of Applicants Recruited to the National Colleges of Education on District Basis for the 
Year 2016
7.1.2 Tamil Medium 
sabarag-
amuwa
uva North 
central
North 
Western
Eastern southern central WesternNorthern

<!-- page 55 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2081
Province Name of the 
Course 
Science Mathematics english Western 
Music
Physical 
education
Information 
Communication 
Technology
district 
Western colombo 2 4 15 1 1 9
Gampaha 2 3 21 1 1 8
Kalutara 2 1 9 1 1 8
central Kandy 3 3 14 1 1 8
matale 1 2 5 1 1 7
Nuwara Eliya 2 1 5 1 1 2
southern Galle 2 2 12 1 1 9
matara 2 1 11 1 1 10
hambantota 1 1 7 1 - 9
Northern Jaffna 2 3 6 1 1 1
Kilinochchi - 1 5 1 1 1
mannar - 1 5 - - 1
Vavuniya - - 4 - - 1
mullativu - - 5 - - 1
Eastern batticaloa 1 1 6 1 1 1
ampara 1 - 5 1 - 4
trincomalee 1 1 6 1 1 1
North Western Kurunegala 2 2 9 1 1 9
Puttalam 1 1 4 1 1 8
North central anuradhapura 2 1 3 1 1 8
Polonnaruwa 1 1 3 - 1 5
uva badulla 2 1 8 1 1 9
monaragala 1 1 4 - 1 9
sabaragamuwa Ratnapura 2 1 7 1 1 9
Kegalle 2 2 6 1 1 12
total 35 35 185 20 20 150
7.1 Number of Applicants Recruited to the National Colleges of Education on District Basis for the 
Year 2016
7.1.3 english Medium 

<!-- page 56 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2082
colombo 1 1 - - - 1 - 1 - - - 1 - - 1 2
dehiwala-mount Lavinia 1 1 1 - - - - - - - - - - - 1 -
Kolonnawa 1 - 1 - - - - - - - - - 1 - 1 1
sri Jayawardanapura Kotte 
(Nugegoda)
1 1 - - 1 - - 1 1 - - - - - 1 -
Rathmalana 1 - - - - - - - - 1 - - - - - -
moratuwa 1 - - 1 - 1 - - - - - - - - 1 1
homagama 2 1 - - - 1 - - - - - - - - 1 -
maharagama 1 1 - - - - 1 - - - - - - - 2 -
Kesbewa 2 - - - - 1 - - - - - - - 1 1 1
Kaduwela 1 1 1 1 - 1 - - - - - - - - 1 -
hanwella (seethawaka) 2 - 1 1 - 1 - 1 1 - - - - - - 1
Padukka 2 1 - - - - - 1 1 - - - - - - -
thimbirigasyaya 3 1 1 1 1 - - 1 - - 1 - - 1 1 1
Gampaha 2 1 1 1 - - 1 - - - - - - 1 2 1
attanagalla 2 - - - - - - - 1 - 1 - - - 1 1
meerigama (Pasyala) 1 - - - - 1 - 1 - 1 - - - - 1 1
mahara 2 - - - - 1 - - - - - - - - 1 1
dompe (Weke) 2 - - - - 1 1 - - - - - 1 - - 2
biyagama 2 - 1 - - - - 1 - - 1 - - - 1 1
Kelaniya 1 1 - - - - - 1 1 1 - - - - 1 -
minuwangoda 2 - 1 1 1 1 - - - - - - - - 2 -
Katana (seduwa) 2 - - - - 1 - - 1 - - - - - - 2
Negombo 1 - 1 - - 1 - 1 - - - - - - 1 1
divulapitiya 2 - - - 1 1 - - - - - - - - - 1
Wattala 1 1 - - - - - - 1 - - - - - 1 1
Ja-Ela 2 - 1 - - - 1 - - - - - - - 1 2
7.2 Number of Applicants Recruited to the National Colleges of Education on Secretarial Division Basis for the 
Year 2016
 Medium of the course Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium english Medium
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics
Buddhism
First Language (Sinhala)
Physical education 
Special education 
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics 
First Language (Tamil)
Physical education 
Science
Mathematics 
english 
Information Communication 
Technology
 Gampaha Colombo  District
Name of the Secretarial 
Division

<!-- page 57 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2083
Name of the Secretarial 
Division
Kalutara 2 1 1 - - 1 1 - 1 1 - - 1 - 1 1
bandaragama 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 -
horana 1 1 - - - - - 1 - - - - - - 1 -
beruwala 2 - - - - 1 1 2 - - - 1 - - - 1
Panadura 2 1 1 - 1 1 - - - 1 1 - - - 1 -
dodamgoda 1 - - - - - - 1 1 - 1 - - - - -
mathugama 1 - - 1 - 1 - 1 1 - - - - - 1 1
bulathsinhala 1 - - - - 1 - - 1 1 1 - - - - -
agalawatta 1 - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - - 1
Walallawita 1 - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - - 1
madurawala 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
millaniya 1 - - - - - - 1 1 - - - - - - 1
Palindanuwara (baduraliya) 1 - - 1 - - - 1 - - - - - - - -
ingiriya 1 - - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - -
Kandy four Gravets and 
Gangawata Korale
1 1 1 1 1 - - - - - - - 1 1 1 1
yatinuwara 1 - 1 1 - 1 - - 1 - - - - - 2 1
Pathahewaheta 1 - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - 1 1
udapalatha (Gampola) 2 - - - - - - 2 1 1 1 - 1 - 1 1
udunuwara 2 - - 1 - 1 - 1 - - - 1 - - - 1
Ganga ihala Korale 1 1 - - - - - - 1 - - - - - 1 -
Pasbage Korale 1 - - - - - - 2 - - 1 - - - - -
harispattuwa (Katugasthota) 1 - - - 1 - - 1 1 - - - 1 - 1 1
minipe 1 - - - - 1 - - - - - - - - - 1
medadumbara (Karaliyadda) - 1 1 - - - - - - 1 1 1 - - 1 -
Kundasale - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - - 1 1
thumpane (Galagedara) - - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - - -
Poojapitiya 1 - - - - 1 - - - - - - - - 1 1
akurana 1 - - - - - - - - - 1 - 1 - - -
Pathadumbara (Wathegama) 1 - - - - - 1 - - - - - - - - 1
Panwila - - - - - - - - 1 1 - - - - - -
udadumbara - - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - - 1
delthota - - - - - - - 1 1 1 - - - - - -
doluwa 1 - - - - - - 1 1 - 1 - - - - -
hatharaliyadda - - - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - 1
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics
Buddhism
First Language (Sinhala)
Physical education 
Special education 
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics 
First Language (Tamil)
Physical education 
Science
Mathematics 
english 
Information Communication 
Technology
 Medium of the course Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium english Medium
 Kandy Kalutara District

<!-- page 58 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2084
matale 1 1 1 - - - - - - - 1 - - 1 2 1
Rattota 1 - - - - 1 - 2 - - - - - - - 1
Wilgamuwa - - 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Laggala (Pallegama) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
ambanganga Korale - - - - - - - 1 1 - 1 - - - - -
Galewela - - - - - 1 - - 1 - - - - - 1 -
dambulla 1 1 1 - 1 - - 1 1 - - - - - - 1
Naula 1 - - 1 - - - 1 1 - - - - - - 1
Pallepola 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
yatawatta - - - - - 1 - 1 1 - - - - - - 1
ukuwela - - - - - - - - - - 1 - - - - 1
Nuwara Eliya 2 - 1 - - 1 - - - 1 1 1 1 1 1 -
ambagamuwa (hattan) 1 - 1 - - 1 - - - - - 1 - - 1 -
Walapane 1 1 - 1 - 1 1 - - - - - 1 1 1 1
Kothmale 1 - - - 1 - 1 2 1 1 1 1 - 1 1 -
hanguranketha 1 - - 1 1 - - - - - - - 1 - 2 1
Galle four Gravets 2 1 1 1 1 - - - - - - - 1 1 2 1
habaraduwa (talpepattuva south) 2 - - - - 1 - - - - - - 1 - - -
akmeemana 2 1 - - - - - - - - - - - 1 1 1
hikkaduwa 2 - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 1
bope-Poddala 1 - - 1 - - - - - - - - - - 1 -
Elpitiya 2 - - - 1 1 - 1 - - - - - - - -
ambalangoda 2 - 1 - 1 - - - - - - - - 1 1 -
bentota 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1
Karandeniya 2 - 1 - - 1 1 - 1 - - - - - - -
balapitiya 2 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Nagoda (mapalagama) 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Niyagama 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
yakkalamulla (udugama 
talpepattuva North)
1 - - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - -
thawalama 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
baddegama (Ganga bada Pattuva 
south)
2 - 1 - 1 - - - - - - - - - 1 1
Neluwa (hiniduma Pattuva - 
batuwangala)
1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 -
imaduwa 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Welivitiya-divithura 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Gonapinuwala 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Name of the Secretarial 
Division
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics
Buddhism
First Language (Sinhala)
Physical education 
Special education 
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics 
First Language (Tamil)
Physical education 
Science
Mathematics 
english 
Information Communication 
Technology
 Medium of the course Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium english Medium
 Galle Nuwara eliya Matale District

<!-- page 59 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2085
Name of the Secretarial 
Division
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics
Buddhism
First Language (Sinhala)
Physical education 
Special education 
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics 
First Language (Tamil)
Physical education 
Science
Mathematics 
english 
Information Communication 
Technology
matara four Gravets 1 1 1 - 1 - 1 - - - - - 1 1 1 1
Weligama 1 1 - - 1 - 1 - - - - - 1 - - 1
Welipitiya 2 - - - - - - - - - 1 - - - 1 1
devinuwara 1 - - 1 - - - - - - - - - 1 1 1
dickwella 1 - 1 - - 1 - - - - - - - - - 1
akuressa (Waligama Korale 
North)
2 - 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - 1
thihagoda (Ganga bada 
Pattuva south)
1 - 1 - - - - - - - - - - - 1 -
hakmana 1 - - - - 1 - - - - - - - - - 1
mulatiyana 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 -
Kamburupitiya 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1
malimboda 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 -
Pitabeddara (morawaka 
Korale south)
1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 -
Pasgoda (urubokka 
morawaka Korale – East)
1 - - - - 1 - - - - - - - - - -
Kotapola 1 - - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - -
athuraliya 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 -
Kirinda - Puhulwella 1 - - 1 - - - 1 - - - - - - - -
tangalle 11 - 1 - - 1 - - - - - - - - 1 1
beliatta 3 - 1 - 1 1 - - - - - - - - 1 1
Katuwana 1 - - - - - 1 - - - - - - - 1 1
Weeraketiya 2 - - 1 - - - - - - - - - - 1 -
hambantota 3 - - - - - - 2 - - - - - - 1 -
angunakolapelessa 2 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1
thissamaharama 2 - 1 - - 1 - - - - - - - - 1 1
ambalanthota 3 - - -
1 - - - - 1 - - - - 1 -
Lunugamwehera 2 1 - - - - - - - - - - - 1 - -
okewela 2 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
sooriyawewa 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Walasmulla 2 - - 1 1 - - - - - - - - - - 1
 Hambantota Matara District
 Medium of the course Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium english Medium
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics
Buddhism
First Language (Sinhala)
Physical education 
Special education 
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics 
First Language (Tamil)
Physical education 
Science
Mathematics 
english 
Information Communication 
Technology

<!-- page 60 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2086
Jaffna - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 1 1 -
Nallur - - - - - - - - - - 1 1 - 1 1 -
thenmarachchi 
(chavakachcheri)
- - - - - - - 2 1 1 1 1 - - 1 -
delft - - - - - - - - 1 - - - - - 1 -
islands North (Kayts) - - - - - - - 2 1 - 1 - - - 1 -
Vadamaradchy East 
(maruthankerny)
- - - - - - - 1 - - 1 - - - 1 -
Vadamaradchy North (Point 
Perdro)
- - - - - - - - 1 - 1 1 1 - 1 -
Vadamaradchi south - West 
(Karaveddy)
- - - - - - - 1 1 - 1 1 - - 1 -
Valikamam East (Kopay) - - - - - - - 1 - 1 1 1 - - 1 -
Valikamam south (uduvil) - - - - - - - 1 - - 1 - - - 1 -
Valikamam West (chankanai) - - - - - - - 2 1 - 1 1 - - 1 -
Valikamam south-West 
(sandilipay)
- - - - - - - 2 1 1 1 1 - - 1 -
Valikamam North (tellipalai) - - - - - - - 2 1 - 1 1 - - 1 -
island south (Velanai) - - - - - - - 2 1 1 1 1 - - 1 -
Karainagar - - - - - - - 2 1 - 1 - - - - -
Karachchi - - - - - - - - 1 1 2 1 1 - 1 -
Kandawali - - - - - - - 2 1 1 1 - - - 1 -
Palai (Pachchilaipalli) - - - - - - - 2 1 - - - - - 1 -
Poonakary - - - - - - - 1 1 - 1 1 - - 1 -
mannar town - - - - - - - 1 1 1 1 - - - 1 -
manthai West - - - - - - - 2 - - 1 - - - 1 -
musali - - - - - - - 2 1 - - 1 - - 1 -
Nanaattan - - - - - - - 2 1 1 1 - - - 1 -
madhu 2 - -
- - - - 2 1 - 1 - - - 1 -
Vavuniya south 5 1 1 - - - - 2 1 - - - - - 1 1
Vavuniya - - - - - - - 2 1 1 1 1 - - 1 -
Vavuniya North - - - - - - - 2 1 - 1 1 - - 1 -
Vengalacheddiculam - - - - - - - 2 1 - 1 1 - - 1 -
Name of the Secretarial 
Division
 Vavuniya Mannar Kilinochchi Jaffna District
 Medium of the course Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium english Medium
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics
Buddhism
First Language (Sinhala)
Physical education 
Special education 
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics 
First Language (Tamil)
Physical education 
Science
Mathematics 
english 
Information Communication 
Technology

<!-- page 61 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2087
maritimepattu - - - - - - - 2 1 - 1 - - - 1 -
manthai East - - - - - - - 2 - - - - - - 1 -
thunukkai - - - - - - - 2 - - - - - - 1 -
Puthukudiyiruppu - - - - - - - 1 1 1 1 1 - - 1 -
oddusuddan - - - - - - - 2 1 - 1 - - - 1 -
Welioya 7 1 3 1 1 2 - - - - - - - - 1 -
manmunai North 
(batticaloa – town)
- - - - - - - - - 1 1 - 1 - 1 -
Eravur Pattu - - - - - - - 1 1 - - - - - 1 -
Eravur town - - - - - - - 1 1 - - - - - - -
manmunai south and 
Eruvilpattu
- - - - - - - - 1 - 1 1 - - 1 -
Porativu Pattu - - - - - - - 2 1 - - 1 - - 1 -
manmunai Pattu 
(araipattai)
- - - - - - - - 1 - - - - - 1 -
manmunai south-West - - - - - - - 2 1 - - - - - - -
Koralai Pattu North - - - - - - - 2 - 1 1 1 - - 1 -
manmunai West - - - - - - - 2 1 - 1 1 - - - -
Koralai Pattu 
(Valachchenai)
- - - - - - - 1 1 1 1 1 - - 1 -
Kattankudy - - - - - - - - - 1 - - - - - -
Koralai Pattu  West 
(oddamavadi)
- - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - - -
Koralai Pattu central - - - - - - - - 1 - - - - - 1 -
Koralai Pattu south (Kiran) - - - - - - - 2 1 - - - - - 1 -
Name of the Secretarial 
Division
 Medium of the course Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium english Medium
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics
Buddhism
First Language (Sinhala)
Physical education 
Special education 
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics 
First Language (Tamil)
Physical education 
Science
Mathematics 
english 
Information Communication 
Technology
  Batticaloa Mullativu District

<!-- page 62 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2088
ampara 3 1 1 1 1 - 1 - - - - - 1 - 1 1
uhana 8 1 1 - 1 1 - - - - - - - - 1 2
Padiyathalawa 4 1 1 - - 1 - - - - - - - - 1 1
damana 3 1 1 - 1 - - - - - - - - - 1 2
dehiattakandiya 5 1 1 1 - 1 1 - - - - - 1 - 1 1
mahaoya 6 1 1 1 - - - - - - - - - - - 1
Lahugala 1 - 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Kalmunai - south - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Kalmunai - North - - - - - - - - 1 - 1 - - - 1 -
Ninthavur - - - - - - - 1 - - 1 - - - - -
samanthurai 1 - - - - - - 1 - - 1 - - - - -
addalachchenai 1 - - - - - - 2 - 1 - - - - - -
akkaraipattu - - - - - - - 2 - - - 1 1 - - -
alayadiwembu 1 - - - - - - 1 - - 1 - - - 1 -
Karativu - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Pothuvil 1 - - - - - - 2 - - 1 1 - - 1 -
thirukkovil - - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - 1 -
irakkamam 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Navithanveli - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 -
sainthamarathu - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
trincomalee town and 
Gravets
1 1 - 1 1 - - 1 1 1 1 1 1 - - -
Kantale 6 1 1 - - 1 - - - - - - - - - 1
Kinniya - - - - - - - 2 - 1 2 - - - - -
muttur 1 - - - - - - 2 - 1 2 1 - - 1 -
Gomarankadawala 5 1 1 - - 1 - - - - - - - - - -
Kuchchaveli 2 - - - - - - 2 1 1 1 1 - - 1 -
seruvila 3 - 1 1 - - - - - - - - - - - -
Verugal (Echchilampattai) - - - - - - - 1 1 - 1 - - - 1 -
thampalakamam 
(thambalagamuwa)
1 - - - - - - 2 1 - 1 - - - 1 -
morawewa 4 - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - 1 -
Padavi sri Pura 4 - 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Name of the Secretarial 
Division
 Trincomalee Ampara District
 Medium of the course Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium english Medium
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics
Buddhism
First Language (Sinhala)
Physical education 
Special education 
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics 
First Language (Tamil)
Physical education 
Science
Mathematics 
english 
Information Communication 
Technology

<!-- page 63 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2089
Kurunegala 1 1 1 - 1 - 1 1 - - - - 1 1 2 -
Polgahawela 2 - 1 - - - - 2 - - - - - - 1 1
mawathagama 1 1 - - - - - 1 - - - - - - 1 1
Rideegama 1 - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - 1 1
ibbagamuwa 1 - - - - 1 - - - 1 - - - - 1 -
alawwa 2 - - - - - 1 1 - - - - - 1 1 -
Kuliyapitiya-East (Nakkawatta) 1 - - - - - - - - 1 - - - 1 - -
Wariyapola 1 - 1 - - - - - - - - - - - 1 1
Panduwasnuwara (hettipola) 2 - - - - 1 - 1 1 - - - - - - 1
bingiriya 2 - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - 1 1
Pannala 2 - - - 1 - - 2 - 1 - - - - 1 1
mahawa 2 - 1 - - 1 - 1 - 1 - - - - - 1
Polpithigama 2 - - 1 - 1 - - - - - - - - - 1
Kobeigane 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1
Nikaweratiya 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Galgamuwa 1 - - 1 - - - 2 1 1 - - - - - 1
Giribawa 1 - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - - -
Kuliyapitiya West 2 - - - 1 1 1 1 - - - - - - 1 1
Ganewatta 1 - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - - -
Kotawehera 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1
mallawapitiya 1 - - - - - - 2 - - - - - - - 1
maspotha 1 - 1 - - - - - - - - - - - 1 -
Narammala 2 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Weerambugedara 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
udubaddawa 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Rasnayakapura 1 - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - - -
ambanpola 1 - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - - -
Ehetuwewa 1 - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - - -
bamunakotuwa - - - - - - - 1 - 1 - - - - - -
Panduwasnuwara-East 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1
Name of the Secretarial 
Division
 Kurunegala District
 Medium of the course Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium english Medium
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics
Buddhism
First Language (Sinhala)
Physical education 
Special education 
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics 
First Language (Tamil)
Physical education 
Science
Mathematics 
english 
Information Communication 
Technology

<!-- page 64 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2090
Puttalam 3 1 1 - - - - - - 1 - 1 1 1 1 -
Nawagattegama 
(Kirimetiyana)
1 - 1 - - - - - - - - - - - 1 -
anamaduwa 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 - 1
Karuwalagaswewa 2 1 1 - - 1 - - - - - - - - 1 -
Kalpitiya 1 1 - - - - - 1 - 1 1 1 - - 1 -
Wanathavilluwa 1 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
chilaw (Pittigal) 3 - 1 - 1 1 - - - - - - - 1 - -
arachchikattuwa - Ps 2 - 1 - - 1 - - - - - - - - - 1
Nattandiya 2 - - - - - - - - - - - 1 - 1 -
Wennappuwa 3 - 1 - - - - - - - - - 1 - 2 1
dankotuwa 3 - - - - - 1 - - - - - - - - 1
madampe 2 - - 1 - - - - - - - - - 1 - -
mahakumbukkadawala 1 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 -
mundalama 2 1 - - - - - 1 1 1 1 - - - 1 -
Pallama 1 1 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - -
mahawewa (yatakalanpattu) 3 - - - - 1 1 - - - - - - - - 1
Nuwaragampalatha-East 1 - - - 1 - - - - - - - - 1 2 1
Nuwaragampalatha-central 1 - - - - 1 - - - - - - 1 - - 1
Rambewa 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 -
Nochchiyagama 
(Nuwaragampalatha-West)
1 1 1 1 - 1 - - - - - - - 1 1 1
mahawilachchiya - 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
thambuttegama 2 1 - - - - 1 - - - - - - - - -
thalawa 
(Nuwaragampalatha-south)
1 1 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Rajanganaya 2 1 - - -
- - - - - - - - - - -
Galnewa 2 - 1 1 - - - - - - - - - - - -
Kekirawa 2 - - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - -
Palugaswewa 2 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Palagala 1 - - - - 1 - - - - - - - - - 1
thirappane 2 1 1 - - 1 - 1 - - - - - - - 1
ipalogama 2 1 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Galenbindunuwewa 1 1 - 1 - - - - - - - - - - 1 1
Kahatagasdigiliya 1 - - - - - 1 - - - - - - - 1 -
mihinthale 1 - - 1 - - - - - - - - - 1 - -
Kebithigollewa 1 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Padaviya 1 - 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - -
horowpothana 2 - - - - - - - 1 1 - - - - 1 -
medawachchiya 1 - - - 1 1 - - - - - - - - 1 -
Nachchadoowa 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Name of the Secretarial 
Division
 Anuradhapura Puttalam District
 Medium of the course Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium english Medium
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics
Buddhism
First Language (Sinhala)
Physical education 
Special education 
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics 
First Language (Tamil)
Physical education 
Science
Mathematics 
english 
Information Communication 
Technology

<!-- page 65 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2091
thamankaduwa 
(Polonnaruwa)
2 - 1 - - - 1 1 - - - - 1 1 - -
Lankapura 1 1 - - - - - 1 - - - - - - 1 1
dimbulagala 1 1 1 - 1 1 - - - - - - - - 1 1
hingurakgoda (minariya) 2 - - - 1 - - - - - - - - 1 1 1
medirigiriya 2 - - - - - 1 1 - - - - - - 1 -
Elahera 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1
Welikanda 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 -
badulla 1 - - - - - 1 - - - 1 - 1 1 - -
Passara 2 1 - - - - - - - - - - - 1 1 1
hali-Ela 1 1 - 1 - 1 - - - - - 1 - - - 1
soranathota 1 - - 1 - - - - - - - - - - - -
meegahakivula (Viyaluwa) 2 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Kandaketiya 2 - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 1
bandarawela 1 - - - - - - - - - - - 1 - - -
uva Paranagama 3 - 1 - 1 1 - - 1 - - - - - 1 1
Welimada 3 - - 1 1 - 1 - - - 1 - 1 - - -
haldummulla 3 - 1 - - - - 1 1 - - - - - 1 1
haputale 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Ella 1 - - - - - - 1 1 - - 1 - - - -
mahiyanganaya 3 1 1 - 1 - - - - - - - - - 1 1
Rideemaliyadda 1 1 1 - - 1 - - - - - - - - 1 1
Lunugala 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
moneragala 1 - 1 - - - - - - - - - 1 1 - 1
buttala 2 1 1 1 - - - - - - - - - - - 1
thanamalvila 2 - 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - 1
Wellawaya 3 - - - 1 - - - - - - - - - - 1
siyambalanduwa 3 1 1 - 1 1 - - - - - - - - 1 1
badalkumbura 1 1 - - - - - 1 1 - - - - - 1 1
madulla 2 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1
bibile 2 - - - - 1 - - - - - - - - - -
medagama 2 1 1 - - - 1 1 - - - - - - 1 1
Katharagama 2 - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 - -
sevanagala 2 - - 1 - - 1 - - - - - - - - -
Name of the Secretarial 
Division
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics
Buddhism
First Language (Sinhala)
Physical education 
Special education 
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics 
First Language (Tamil)
Physical education 
Science
Mathematics 
english 
Information Communication 
Technology
 Medium of the course Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium english Medium
 Moneragala Badulla Polonnaruwa District

<!-- page 66 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2092
Ratnapura 1 - - 1 - - - - - 1 1 1 1 1 - 1
Pelmadulla 2 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Nivithigala 1 - - - - - 1 1 - - - - - - 1 -
Eheliyagoda 2 - 1 1 1 - - - - - - - - 1 - 2
Kuruwita 2 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1
ayagama 2 - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - 1 -
Kalawana 2 - - - - - - 1 1 - - - - - 1 1
balangoda 2 - - - - 1 - - 1 - - - - - 1 -
imbulpe 1 1 1 1 - - - - - - - - - - - -
Weligepola 2 1 1 - - - - - - - - - - - 1 1
Godakawela 2 1 1 - 1 1 - - - - - - - - 1 -
Kolonna 2 - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 1
Embilipitiya 1 - - - - 1 1 - - - - - - - 1 1
opanayaka 2 - - 1 - - - - - - - - - - - 1
Elapatha 2 - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - 1 -
Kahawatta 2 - - - - - - - - - - - 1 - 1 1
Kiriella 2 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1
Kegalle 1 1 1 - - - 1 - - - - - 1 1 1 2
Galigamuwa 1 1 - 1 - 1 - - - - - - - - 1 2
Warakapola 3 - - - 1 1 - - - - - - - - 1 2
Ruwanwella 1 - - - - - - 2 - - - - - - - 2
dehiovita 2 - - - - - - 3 1 1 - - - - - 1
deraniyagala 1 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1
yatiyanthota 1 - - 1 - 1 - 1 1 1 - 1 - - - 1
mawanella 1 - - - - - - 1 - - 1 1 - - 1 2
Rambukkana 1 - - - 1 - - - - - - - 1 - 1 2
aranayaka 1 1 - 1 - - 1 - - - - - - - - 2
bulathkohupitiya 1 - - - - - - 2 - - - - - - - 1
total 440 73 80 45 40 70 33 170 82 45 68 40 36 35 185 150
Name of the Secretarial 
Division
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics
Buddhism
First Language (Sinhala)
Physical education 
Special education 
Primary education 
Science
Mathematics 
First Language (Tamil)
Physical education 
Science
Mathematics 
english 
Information Communication 
Technology
 Medium of the course Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium english Medium
 Kegalle Ratnapura District

<!-- page 67 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2093
Specimen Application Form 
AdmiSSion to nAtionAl CollegeS oF eduCAtion - 2016
(applicants should forward their applications according to the section 10.2 of Gazette Notification. Applications which 
are not prepared in accordance with the specimen form will be rejected. details up to paragraph 09 in the application 
should be included in the first page. Computer data required for the selection interview will be prepared out of the 
information given from 1.0 - 9.8).
 1.0 
 Preference Course  Name of the College Course Medium 
  Number Course Number  (S/T/E) 
 1
 2
 3
  details furnished by the applicant in the table 1.0 will not be allowed to change in any circumstance.
 2.0  2.1 Name with initials in English (in block letters) example : mr. PERERa R. c.
    Rev. mr./miss :––––––––––––––––––––––.
   2.2 full Name in English (in block Letters) :––––––––––––––––––––––.
 3.0 Permanent residential address :
  in English (in block Letters) :––––––––––––––––––––––.
  t elephone No. :–––––––––––.
 4.0  
   4.1 district of permanent residence, according to para. 6.2.2 in Gazette Notification :––––––––––.
    district No. 
   4.2 secretarial division of permanent residence according to para. 6.2.1 in Gazette Notification :––––––––––.
    secretarial division No. :
 5.0  5.1 date of birth :
  year : month : date :
   5.2 National identity card No.  :
 
 6.0 sex :    male 1 female   2
 7.0 Ethnicity : 
    sinhalese sri Lankan tamil indian t amil muslim others
    1 2 3 4 5
 8.0 Results of G. c. E. (a/L) in year 2014 :   
   8.1 a/L stream : Physical science/biology/commerce/art/other
   8.2 y ear :      medium of the Examination :––––––––––.
   8.3 index No. :      attempt of the Examination :––––––––––.

<!-- page 68 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2094
   8.4 Name of the school/Examination center where the applicant appeared for examination :––––––––––.
    Examination center No. 
   8.5 Z score  :                        if Z is minus indicate : 'm'
   8.6 subject wise details of results :
     Subject Subject No. Grade
    1. ........................ ........................ ........................
    2. ........................ ........................ ........................
    3. ........................ ........................ ........................
 9.0  9.1 the highest grade obtained by the applicants of English and English medium courses at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination for English Language or English Literature  :
    subject No. :
    y ear :
    index No.  :     
   9.2 are you applying to sri Pada National college of Education ? y es 1 No 2
   9.3 if 'yes' indicate whether you are an estate worker’s child (by marking  ‘ X’ in the relevant cage) :
     y es 1 No 2
   9.4 t otal marks included for section 12.0 in the application by the applicants for Physical Education sinhala/
tamil/English medium : 
   9.5
    9.5.1  the highest grade obtained by the applicants of second National Language (sinhala) course at the    
G. c. E.  (o/L) Examination for second Language (tamil) :   
     subject No. :
    9.5.2 the highest grade obtained by the applicants of second National Language (t amil) course at the         
G. c. E. (o/L) Examination for second Language (sinhala) : 
     subject No. : 
   9.6 the highest grade obtained by the applicants of English course at the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination for English                                  
Literature :   
    subject No. :
    
    index No. :      y ear : 
   9.7 the highest grade obtained by the applicants of English course at the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination for         
English   Language:     subject No. :
    
    index No. :      y ear : 

<!-- page 69 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2095
   9.8 the highest grade obtained by the applicants of information communication technology course at the           
G. c. E. (o/L) Examination for information communication technology : 
    subject No. :       index No. : year : 
   10.0 if you have appeared for G. c. E. (a/L) Examination prior to year 2014, please indicate details in full in each 
sitting even if you appeared for only one subject  :
    10.1 No. of sittings for the examination 1 2
    10.2 year ........... .............. 
    10.3 index No.  ........... ..............
    10.4 Name of school/ Examination center  ........... ..............
      ........... ..............
     Examination center No.  ........... ..............
    10.5 Z score ........... ..............
    10.6 subjects passed and grades 
      First Sitting  Second Sitting
      Subject Grade Subject Grade
      ................... .................... .................. ....................
      ................... .................... .................. ....................
      ................... .................... .................. ....................
   11.0 details of G. c. E. (o/L) passed :
    11.1 Number of sittings for the examination 1 2 3
    11.2 year .............. ............. ..............
    11.3 index No. .............. ............. ..............
    11.4 Examination centre No. .............. ............. ..............
    11.5 subjects passed and Grades  
      1st sitting   2nd sitting   3rd sitting
     Subject  Grade Subject  Grade Subject  Grade
  1. ......................... .................. ................. ................. .................. ..................
  2. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................... ..................
  3. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................... ..................
  4. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................... ..................
  5. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................... ..................
  6. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................... ..................
  7. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................... ..................
  8. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................... ..................
 12.0  Particulars of sports competency according to the clause 4.20.3 and 4.20.4 in Para. 4.20 of the Gazette Notification :
    (only those who apply for Physical Education course should complete). Paying attention to all the clauses in 4.20.3 
is necessary when you complete this part. Particulars of only the highest three sports Certificates/Competency will 
be sufficient.
    if you have passed health and Physical Education in G. c. E. (o/L) Examination, the relevant mark according to 
the Grade as in 4.20.4 must be mentioned below. 
    the total number of marks of your competency on sports should be included in 9.4 in the first page of this application. 

<!-- page 70 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2096
 No. Year Issuing Ministry/ Represented at International/ event/Sport Place Relevant
    Institute/Club National Provincial/District/  Secured Marks for
     Zonal / Divisional Secretariat Level   4.20.3
1
2
3 
if you sat for health and Physical Education in G. c. E. (o/L), Grade :         
      total marks      
 13.0 Results (if any) of Pracheena Preliminary, bauddha dharmacharya, Pirivena final and daham Pasal final 
Examination according to 4.5 of the Gazette Notification :
 Examination Pracheena Bauddha Pirivena Final Daham Pasal
  Preliminary  Dharmacharya  Final
 13.1 year
 13.2 index No. 
 13.3 center No. 
 13.4 subjects & 1 1 1 1
  Grades 2 2 2 2
     3 3 3 3
     4 4 4 4
      5 5
      6 6
       7
       8
       9
       10
       11
14.0 The applicants of Catholicism/Christianity should fill the relevant part according to section 4.8 of the Gazette 
   Notification.
           Duration
 Name of  the Course/Certificate 
  From  To  Grade
 14.1 degree in theology (bth).
 14.2 Certificate of Philosophy Course (BPH) conducted by the National 
  seminary.
 14.3 Dharmacharya Certificate issued by the National Catechetical center.
 14.4 Certificate of the Diploma Course of Catholicism conducted by 
  deva dharma Niketanaya.
marks 
according 
to 4.20.4

<!-- page 71 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2097
 14.5 Certificate issued by Superior or relevant Bishop of the clergy sect
  confirming that the candidate has successfully completed the study of
  the Religious Education and training course (Novitiate) to become a 
  member of the clergy.
 14.6 National Certificate on Religious Knowledge (Dharmacharya) issued 
  by National christian council.
14.7  Dharma Vedi Diploma Certificate issued by Theological College, 
  Pilimatalawa.
 14.8 Certificate of Catholic Bishop for Catholics confirming the suitability to 
  be a teacher of Catholicism/Certificate of National Christian Council for
  Christians confirming the suitability to be a teacher of Christianity.
 14.9 ordinary Pass in G. c. E. (a/L) for catholicism/christianity/christian
  civilization
 15.0  To be filled by applicants of Hinduism/Islam with necessary particulars according to Section 4.6 /4.7 of the Gazette 
Notification :
 Name of the Course Duration Effective Date of the Certificate
16.0  To be filled by the applicants of Technical Skills courses in Section 4.23/4.24 with necessary particulars according 
to the Gazette Notification :
 16.1 Clearly indicate the applying field of the course; Crafts and Art/Design and Construction Technology/Design 
and mechanical technology/design and Electrical and Electronic technology :–––––––––––.
 16.2 To be filled by the applicants who have successfully completed a Technical Course in a recognized Government 
institution and are expecting to follow the technical studies - crafts and art/design and construction 
technology/design and mechanical technology/design and Electrical and Electronic technology course 
according to the section 4.23.3/4.24.4 of the Gazette Notification :
 Name of the  Government Registration Institute that  Duration Whether the course
 Technical Number and  conducted the  has been completed
 Course effective Date Course  successfully
  
           Duration
 Name of  the Course/Certificate 
  From  To  Grade

<!-- page 72 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
2098
17.0  t o be completed by the applicants of the Western music course including relevant particulars on competencies 
related to Western music as per the terms of section 4.18.1 and 4.18.2 in the Gazette Notification :
 Year Institute issuing Certificate Proficiency/Class passed 
 18.0 Declaration of the Applicant : 
 (i) i have forwarded my application in accordance with section 10.2 of the Gazette Notification. 
 (ii) I certify that the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette Notification relevant to the Courses I apply have 
already been completed by me.
 (iii) i certify that the particulars furnished in the application by me are true and correct. i am aware that if any 
particulars given by me in this application are found to be false or incorrect or contradictory to the Gazette 
Notification, I am liable to be disqualified before selection or to be discontinued after selection. 
 (iv) i declare that i have not applied for university admission and that i am not following/registered for following 
a course in a university/university institute/any other higher Education institute. i further certify that i agree 
to be discontinued from the course if it is found that the section 8.4 of the Gazette Notification has been/is 
violated by me. 
 (v) i  declare that i agree to accept any punishment decided by the disciplinary board of the National college of 
Education and the ministry of Education if i was found and proven to be engaged in any action against the 
code of conduct of National colleges of Education.
  –––––––––––––,
  applicant’s signature. 
date :–––––––––––.
 19.0 Certification the residence according to Section 6.2.1 and 6.2.2 of the Gazette Notification  :
i certify that this applicant's permanent resident district for minimum three years including the year, he/she appeared for 
G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in the first sitting and two years immediately preceding to that is .............................. and the 
secretarial division is .............................
  ––––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of Grama Niladhari and Official Frank. 
Name of Grama Niladhari  :–––––––––––,
Name and address of Grama Niladhari division  :–––––––––––,
date :–––––––––––.
  i certify that the details supplied by the Grama Niladhari are true and accurate. 
  –––––––––––,
  signature of the divisional secretary and 
  Official Frank.
Name of the divisional secretary :–––––––––––.
Name and address of secretarial division :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
09–495
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  sRi  LaNKa.