

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'08
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.08.2011
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1718$2 - 2011 wf.daia;= 08 jeks i÷od - 2011'08'08
No. 1718/2  -  MONDAY,  AUGUST  08,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A - G 14895— 342 (2011/08)
My No.  : T23/P/119/2004.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Award transmitted to me by the Arbitrator to whom
the Industrial Dispute which has arisen between
Mr. W. A. D. Ranaweera, No. 08, Colony 18, Mahiyanganaya
of  the  one part and Sri Lanka Central Transport Board, No.
200, Kirula Road, Colombo 05, Uva Bus Company Limited,
Head Office, Passara Road, Hindagoda, Badulla of the other
part was referred by order dated 27.04.2006 made under section
4(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131 (as amended)
and published in the Gazette  of  Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka Extraordinary,   No. 1445/4 dated
15.05.2006 for settlement by Arbitration  is hereby published
in terms of Section 18(1) of the said   Act.
V . B. P . K. W
EERASINGHE,
Commissioner General
 of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
06th  July, 2011.
Case No:
    A  3160
Mr. W. A. D. Ranaweera,
No. 08, Colony 18,
Mahiyanganaya
Vs.
1. Sri Lanka Central Transport Board,
No. 200, Kirula Road,
Colombo 05; and
2. Uva Bus Company Limited,
Head Office,
Passara Road, Hindagoda
Badulla.
THE  AWARD
Minister of Labour Relations and Foreign Employment
by  virtue of the powers vested in him by Section 4(1) of the
Industrial Disputes  Act,  Chapter 131 of the Legislative
Enactments of Ceylon (1956 Revised Edition) as amended  by
Acts, Nos. 14 of 1957,  4 of 1962 and  39 of 1968, (read with
Industrial disputes (Special Provisions) Act, No. 37 of 1968
appointed me as appointed me  Arbitrator and referred the
aforesaid dispute to me for  settlement  by Arbitration.
1A

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'08
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.08.2011
2A
The matter in dispute between the aforesaid parties are:-
(1) Whether Mr. W. A. D. Ranaweera who is presently
employed at Uva Bus Company Limited  is entitled to
receive half salary that was withheld for the period of
21.07.1995 to 31.03.1998 and if not, to what relief he
should be granted; and
(2)  Whether Mr. W. A. D. Ranaweera is entitled to receive
the salary that was withheld for the period of
20.06.2001 to 19.09.2001 during which his services was
temporarily suspended and if not, to what relief he
should be granted.
This matter was taken up for inquiry. Both parties were
present, Mr. S. M. Abeyratne AAL appeared for the Applicant
Mrs. Madawala AAL appeared for the Respondent.
The applicant gave evidence. Witnesses Weerasinghe and
Weerakone gave evidence for the Respondent.
I have examined the evidence both, oral and documentary,
and the written submissions of the parties.
The evidence of the applicant shows that he is now
working in Hasalaka Depot in Grade 3A of the Sri Lanka
Transport Board. In the year 1995, June 17th he worked in the
Mahiyangana Peoplised Transport Board, While working in
this board disciplinary action was taken against him by the
board. There were seven directors on the board. The applicant
was a director Operations. Mr. G . Ariyaratne was Managing
Director on 17.06.1995. The Managing Director Ariyaratne
had a dispute with him. Applicant was appointed Managing
Director in place of Ariyaratne at a Board Meeting on
13.05.1995.  Report of the said board meeting was produced
in evidence as A1 subject to proof. The report was signed by
all the Directors. Applicant’s name was proposed by Director
D. M. Chandrasena and seconded by Director R. M. Piyasena
Director Ariyaratne objected to the appointment of applicant
as Managing Director. All other Directors approved the
appointment. Ariyaratne did not handover work to applicant.
As such, applicant was unable to work as Managing Director.
After that applicant worked as Manager Operations from
07.06.1995 in Mahiyangana Peoplised Depot. On 07.06.1995,
at the request of Chief Director Uva Provincial Council,
applicant went on an official inspection of the new bus route
from Colombo to Mahiyangana via Badulla. At that time,
applicant worked as Chief Manager Operations. Applicant
took a bus which was in operation.
His evidence shows that he took a bus from Mahiyangana
to Colombo on route inspection. He took passengers in the
bus. On the following day, he returned on the same route. On
the way, in Badulla, he went to meet Lawyer Sujeewa
Jayasinghe regarding a case of a driver filed in the Magistrate
Court.
His evidence shows that he earned Rs. 3300/- for  the
Board in transporting passengers on his route inspection.
Regarding this incident disciplinary action was taken against
him. His services was suspended and a disciplinary inquiry
was  held. A charge sheet A(2) was issued. His services were
terminated with effect from 21.07.1995. His services were
terminated on the instructions of the Managing Director
Ariyaratne. According to charge sheet A(2), 15 charges were
leveled against him. He denied the charges. He produced
documents A(3) to A(5) in support of his position in evidence
on the charges.
His evidence shows that he is now working as Manager
Operations in the CTB, Kandy Region.
His evidence shows that the main charge levelled against
him was on the basis that he traveled in the bus belonging to
the board on a private matter. He vehe-mently denied this
charge. He travelled in the bus on an official route inspection.
He made an entry in the log book and he made entries in the
log sheet used by him, on his official route inspection in the
bus.
His evidence shows that this charge was the main charge.
The other charges were incidental to this charge. He was
asked to explain why he did not take a regular driver on the
trip on the 16th and 17th June 1995. He took a foreman driver
instead. He explained this stating that drivers on the stand
by duty roster are required for duty when the necessity arises.
There was no loss to the establishment.
His evidence shows that the respondent without evidence
on the charges against him, found his guilty of the charges.
In evidence he claimed the three months salary due to
him, which was withheld by the respondent.
His evidence shows that he was found guilty for meeting
with an accident on the said trip. He produced the Accident
Report A(4). According to the accident report, the accident
occured due to the fault of  the driver of  the bus belonging to
the Bandarawela Depot.
Consequent to a disciplinary inquiry held against him, he
was found guilty and demoted from Grade 3A to Grade 4 and
he was suspended from service in Grade 3. He produced the
order in the disciplinary inquiry as A12.
His evidence shows that he made a complaint to the Labour
Department Badulla. Inquiry was held, and ACL Badulla made

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'08
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.08.2011
3A
order that the respondent should pay the applicant the salaries
due to the applicant, which was withheld by the Respondent.
Order of the ACL Badulla was produced in evidence marked
A. 14. The respondent Uva Bus Company Limited did not
comply with the order of ACL Badulla. Applicant pursued the
matter with the Commissioner of Labour Colombo. The
Commissioner held an inquiry and made order that, that the
respondent should pay the applicant the salaries due to the
applicant which was withheld by the respondent. The order
by the Commissioner was produced in evidence marked A.
15. the Respondent did not comply with the order of the
Commissioner.
In evidence, in relief, he claimed the salaries due to him
which was withheld by the respondent, as set out in the 2
issues in this case. In cross-examination in evidence, applicant
maintained that he was appointed by the Transport Board of
Directors as Managing Director in place of Ariyaratne at a
board meeting on 13.05.1995. After this, Ariyaratne was angry
with him. The respondent was unable to contradict this. He
mentioned that he went on an official route inspection in a
bus on 17th and 18th June 1995 as Chief Manager Operations
with a log entry in the log book. He denied in cross-
examination, that he went on a private trip. He took a foreman
as driver of the bus which was in order and did not affect the
normal work in the establishment. There was no loss to the
establishment. If he had caused a loss to the Board, a charge
would have been preferred against him. No charge of loss
was preferred against him.
In cross-examination, he maintained that on his official
route inspection from Mahiyangana to Colombo and Colombo
to Badulla on 17th and 18th June 1995, tickets were issued to
passengers and the revenue Rs. 3030/- was credited to the
board. The respondent was unable to contradict this.
Applicant stated that document A(3)proves that he was found
not guilty on this charge. He denied charges 6 and 7. He
stated in evidence in cross examination that on his official
route inspection on the 17th June 1995 he stayed the night in
Battaramulla and this was not a private trip. He denied in
evidence that he defrauded the establishment by stating that
he went on an official trip. He denied that he breached his
responsibility and it was a breach of discipline. He further
stated that on his complaint to the Labour Department, the
ACL Badulla and the Commissioner of Labour Colombo held
and inquiry and decided that he was not guilty of the charges
framed against him by the respondent.
In cross-examination, he was referred to the domestic
inquiry held against him. He stated that he agreed in the
manner of the inquiry held properly. At the domestic inquiry,
he was found not guilty of charges 8 and 9 out of the 15
charges framed against him. He was found guilty of the rest
of the charges. He appealed against the order and, therafter,
the punishment meted out against him was reduced. In
evidence, he stated that  he complained to the ACL Badulla
and the Commissioner of Labour Colombo. An inquiry was
held. He was found not guilty of the charges. An order was
made against the respondent to pay the dues withheld by
the respondent. In evidence in cross-examination, he referred
to the said order by the ACL Badulla and Commissioner of
Labour marked in evidence A(14) and A(15).
Taking into consideration the evidence of the applicant
along with the documents marked in evidence by the
applicant, I am of the view that the evidence of the applicant
shows that he is not guilty of the charges framed against
him. I have now to consider the evidence of  the respondent
to decide the issues in this case.
The evidence of witness Weerasinghe for the respondent
shows on 17.06.1995, he worked in Mahiyangana Depot. On
this date, he took a bus to Colombo. He signed a log sheet.
He acted on instructions from the applicant, who was the
depot manager. The applicant went in the bus on a route
inspection. Passengers were taken in the bus. The conductor
issued tickets to the passengers. He does not know the
revenue earned on the trip. The bus stopped at Battaramulla.
He drove the bus during his duty hours.
His cross-examination in evidence shows that he was
working as Foreman in the Mahiyangana Depot. On
17.06.1995 he worked as a driver on the trip from
Mahiyangana to Colombo and back to Mahiyangana. His
evidence shows that, on earlier occasions, he worked as
driver of the bus on official inspections. This is done as the
necessity arises. He confirmed in cross-examination that  this
was not a private trip. He stated in evidence that he spent
the night with the conductor at Battaramulla. Nothing
happened thereafter. His evidence shows that he drove the
bus back to Mahiyangana the following day.
Taking into consideration the evidence of this witness, I
am of the view that the route inspection by the applicant on
17.06.1995 was an official trip and not a private trip.
Passengers were taken in the bus on this trip and revenue
was collected for the respondent Board. On the evidence of
this witness, I am further of the view that, as the necessity
arises, witness Weerasinghe, as Foremen does official duty,
as a driver on the instructions of his superior officer.
The evidence of witness Weerakone for the respondent
shows that he, presently, works as Regional Operations
Manager for the last nine months. Previously, he worked as
administrative officer in the CTB Kandy. He is presently
working in the Uva Region of the CTB Badulla. At the time

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'08
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.08.2011
4A
of the incident relating to the applicant, he was working in
the Kandy Region. Presently, there are four members in the
Board of Directors. When the Peoplised Board was
functioning, there were six members in the Board of  Directors.
In answer to questions from Court, witness stated that he
is unaware of inquiries held by the Labour Department relating
to the incident involving the applicant. His position in
evidence is that the Managing Director of the Board has
more powers in the Board of Diretors. His evidence shows
that any decision taken by the Directors of Operations should
be notified to the Managing Director. If the Director of
Operations takes a decision without notifying the Managing
Director. it is illegal.
His cross-examination in evidence shows that decision
on appointments is taken by the Board of Directors at the
meeting of the Board. He agreed that the directors take
decisions in their respective subjects in the sections of the
Board. His evidence is that the incident which arose relating
to the applicant should have been notified to the Managing
Director and done with the knowledge of the Managing
Director. His further cross-examination in evidence shows
that he does not know whether the applicant notified the
management of the trip done by him relating to this incident
involving the applicant. On the evidence of this witness, I am
of the view that he is unaware of the circumstances relating
to the incident of the applicant taking a bus and travelling
from Mahiyangana to Colombo and back, without the
authority of the management.
I have carefully examined the evidence, both oral and
documentary, of both parties.
The evidence of the applicant shows that he worked in
the year 1995 in the Mahiyangana Peoplised Transport Board.
While working in the board disciplinary action was taken
against him by the Board.  Ariyaratne was the Managing
Director at the time disciplinary action was taken against him
relating to an incident on 17.06.1995. Ariyaratne was against
him. Applicant was appointed Managing Director at a Board
meeting on 13.05.1995. Ariyaratne did not handover work to
the applicant. Applicant worked as Manager Operations from
07.06.1995. Applicant was appointed as Managing Director
according to document produced in evidence A.1. A. I was
produced in evidence subject to proof. There is no evidence
for the respondent to contradict documents A.1. I accept the
document A.1 in evidence. The applicant in evidence stated
that Ariyaratne was against him. There is no evidence for the
respondent to contradict this.
The main charge against the applicant was that he travelled
in the bus belonging to the Board on a private matter on
16.06.1995 from Mahiyangana to Colombo and back. This
was vehemently denied by the applicant in evidence and he
maintained that this was an official route inspection. The
evidence of the driver Weerasinghe, witness for the
respondent, supports the position of the applicant that this
was an official trip.
The evidence of witness Weerakone, for the respondent
is that there were six directors in the Board of the Peoplised
Transport Board. The decision on appointments is taken by
the Board of Directors. Any decision taken by the Director of
Operations should be notified to the managing Director. His
evidence is that the incident which arose relating to the
applicant should have been notified to the Managing Director.
His evidence is that he does not know whether the applicant
notified the Managing Director. relating to the incident
involving the applicant. On the evidence of witness
Weerakone, I am of the view that he is   unaware of the
circumstances relating to this incident. As such, I am of the
view that his evidence has no value to prove the said charge
against the Applicant.
I have given my consideration to the documents A.14 and
A.15. Documents A.14 shows that a full inquiry was held by
the ACL Badulla and the decision taken by ACL was that the
respondent is liable to pay the arrears of salaries due to the
applicant for the periods set out in the issues in this case. By
document A.14 ACL directed the Respondent to pay the said
arrears, which direction was not complied by the Respondent.
This matter was further referred to the Commissioner of
Labour. The Commissioner of Labour held an independent
inquiry and confirmed the decision of the ACL Badulla and
directed the respondent by document A. 15 to pay the said
arrears due to the applicant which direction was not complied
by the respondent. This matter was then referred to Arbitration
by me.
Taking into consideration documents A.14 and A15 in
evidence, I accept the position in evidence that a full inquiry
was held by the ACL Badulla and the Commissioner of Labour
Colombo and that a just and equitable decision was made in
this matter and that the applicant is entitled to the arrears of
salaries due to him for the periods set out in the issues in this
case.
On the totality of evidence in this case, and on the balance
of evidence and the preponderance of probabilities, I accept
the probable version in evidence of the applicant that he
travelled in a bus on an official route inspection from
Mahiyangana to Colombo and back via Badulla on 17th June
1995. On the evidence, I hold that the Respondent has failed
to prove in evidence the main charge preferred against the
applicant I further  hold that the respondent has failed to

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'08
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.08.2011
5A
prove in evidence the rest of the charges framed against the
applicant.
As stated by me earlier, I accept the decision of the ACL
Badulla and the Commissioner of Labour Colombo that the
applicant is entitled to the arrears of salaries for the periods
set out in the issues in this case.
As such, on the evidence both oral and documentary,
I hold that  the applicant should be paid the arrears of salaries
for the periods as set out in the issues in this case.
Both parties submitted documents setting out the quantum
of the arrears of salaries due to the applicant for the periods
set out in the issues in this case.
Issue (1) - 21.07.1995 to 31.03.1998
Issue (2) - 20.06.2001 to 19.09.2001
On 18.03.2011, both parties were present in Court. Both
parties agreed that the total quantum of the arrears of salaries
is the sum of Rs. 1,55,964.
For the reasons set out by me earlier in this Award, the
applicant should be paid the total quantum of the arrears of
salaries in the sum of Rs.1,55,964.
Accordingly, I order the respondent to deposit the sum
of Rs. 1,55,964 with the Assistant Commissioner of Labour
Badulla within two months of the publication of this Award
in the Government Gazette , after which, the applicant is
entitled to withdraw this sum.
I hold this Award to be just and equitable, and I make the
said Award accordingly.
K. R. M. N. Lawrentz,
Arbitrator.
Dated at Kandy,
This 27th day of April 2011.
08-580
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.