

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2010
151
151
wxl 1"639 - 2010 ckjdß ui 28 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2010'01'28
No. 1,639 – THURSDAY , JANUARY 28, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 154
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 156
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 05th February, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22nd
January, 2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,638 of 22.01.2010 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2010
152
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2010
153
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2010
154
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars – Marriages, Births and Deaths
MANNAR  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 26th of February, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Dencil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
04th of January, 2010.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary’s Division application is called applications should be sent
Mannar Mannar Town Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of The District Secretary/The Additional
Pesalai Division and Marriages (General) Registrar General, District
of Mannar Town Division Secretariat, Mannar
01–816
––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars – Births and Deaths
RATNAPURA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2010
155
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 60 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 05th March, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/3A, Dencil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
01st January, 2010.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary’s Division applications are called applications should be sent
Ratnapura Embilipitiya Registrar of Births and Deaths Embilipitiya District Secretary/Additional
Hospital Division Registrar General, District
Secretariat, Ratnapura
01–757
–––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
GAMPAHA  DISTRICT
CHANGE of the Divisional Secretariat Division "Gampaha" as "Wattala" which was published in the relevant Schedule of the above
notification published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,634 dated 24.12.2009.
E. M. GUNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Dencil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
07th January, 2010.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary’s Division applications were called applications should be sent
Gampaha Wattala Post of Registrar of Marriages in Aluthkuru District Secretary/Additional
Koralaya South Division and Births and Registrar General, District
Deaths in Pamunugama Division Secretariat, Gampaha
01–758

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2010
156
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
DEPARTMENT  OF  RAILW AYS
Calling Applications for Written Competitive Examination for Recruitment from External Candidates to the
Posts of Permanent Way Inspector, Inspector of Buildings, Inspector of Bridges and Inspector of Signal and
Telecommunications, Running Shed Foreman and Mechanical Foreman in Class II Segment (B) of the Railway
Supervisory Management Service – Department of Railways, 2009
THE closing date of applications given in the notification published in the Government Gazette dated 20.11.2009 for recruitment to the
above posts from external candidates is extended up to 15.02.2010.
Accordingly, it would sufficient if the candidates for the above posts complete their eligibility criteria by 15.02.2010.
P. P. WIJESEKARA,
General Manager of Railways.
Office of the General Manager of Railways,
Colombo 10,
2010.
01–779
–––––––––––––––
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  AND  THE  WRITTEN  TEST  ON  COMPUTER  SKILLS  FOR  OFFICERS
IN  CLASS  III  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS'  SERVICE – 2009(1)
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination and a Written Test on computer Skills for officers in Class III of the  Public
Management Assistants' Service will be held by the Commissioner - General of Examinations, as per the relevant provisions of the approved
Service Minutes, in the month of May, 2010.
2.0 Information on the eligibility of the candidates are furnished in Sections Nos. 5 and 9 of the Public Management Assistants'
Service Minute published in the Government Extra Ordinary Gazette No. 1,372/23 of 24.12.2004. Any officer who had been appointed to
a post in the Combined Services before 01.01.2004 should have been confirmed in his/her post as per the relevant Service Minute , after
fulfilling the requisite qualification relevant to that service. Provisions of Public Management Assistants' Service Minute will apply totally
for an officer who has assumed duties in a post after 01.01.2004.
3.0 This examination for officers in Class III of Public Management Assistants' Service will be held in Colombo, Kandy, Galle,
Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullativu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, Anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi. The relevant
towns and town numbers are given below. It will not be allowed to change the town applied for subsequently.
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
Trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
Anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2010
157
A center without sufficient number of candidates will be cancelled and the relevant candidates will be directed to the next nearest
centre available.
4.0 (i) This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner-General of Examinations and the candidates will be bound by
the rules and regulations imposed by him.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been separately printed in the Gazette Notification. Candidates will be
subjected to any punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for violation of these rules and
regulations.
5.0 The application for this examination should be in the form of specimen appended to this notification. Applicants should
prepare the applications themselves according to the specimen. Applications prepared thus should be sent by the registered post  through
the respective Heads of Departments to reach the ‘‘Commissioner - General of Examinations, Organizations and Foreign Examinatio ns
Branch, Department of Examinations, Pelawatte, Battaramulla” on or before 01st March, 2010. The name of the examination should be
indicated in the top left hand corner of the envelope of the application. Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
6.0 Identity of the Candidates.– Candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, one of the following documents should be submitted to the supervisor :–
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above mentioned documents might be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
7.0 Applications.– Applications should be prepared in a paper of A4 size in such a manner that Para. Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appear on the
first page. The application could be typewritten but should be filled in correctly and legibly by candidate’s own handwriting. Application
should strictly conform to the specimen appended and candidates are advised as not to send more than one application or photoco pies.
Applications that do not comply with the specimen and that have not been perfected properly will be rejected without notice. Pl ease
indicate the title of the examination appearing on the specimen in English language as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil application forms. It
is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the application form perfected by him/herself complies with the specimen given in
the examination notice and further it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed application form.
The candidates appearing for the examination for the 1st time need not pay examination fees. However, stamps to the value of
Rs. 90 for the whole examination or for the two subjects and stamps to the value of Rs. 50 for a single subject should be affix ed for
subsequent sittings. The stamps should be duly cancelled by placing signature of the candidate and the date. Under any circumstances, the
fees will not be refunded or transferred in respect of any other examination.
8.0 The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue copies of the time table and admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been received. Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that the candidate is eligible to sit
the examination. Candidates should get their signature on the admission card attested in advance and surrender to the superviso r of the
examination hall. Candidates without admission cards will not be permitted to sit for the examination. A notification will be published in
newspapers by the Department of Examinations as soon as the admission cards are issued to candidates. If the admission card is not received
even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the
advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the Department of Examinations : i. e.– receipt of
registration and in case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of request, furnishing a fax number to which the admission cards should be sent.
9.0 The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations to enable them to appear for the examination. No travelling expenses will be paid.
10.0 This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media. The officers may sit for this examination either in the
language medium in which they sat for the entry examination to the service or in one of the official languages. Candidates who entered the
service without a competitive examination may sit for the examination in their medium of education or in one of the official languages. The
language medium of examination, mentioned originally in the application cannot be changed subsequently.
11.0 Officers may appear separately for each subject at different occasions at their discretion. However they should score at least
40% of the total marks for each subject, for a pass.
12.0 Commissioner-General of Examinations will release the results of the examination to the Director General of Combined
Services and names of the successful candidates will be published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2010
158
13.0 Examination Procedure.– Candidates should sit for a written examination that will consist of the following subjects :–
Subject Subject No. Marks Duration
(i) Office systems 01 100 01 hr.
(ii) Accounting Systems 02 100 01 hr.
(iii) Computer Test 03 100 1 1/2 hrs.
13.1 Office Systems (Subject No. 01) :
Basic knowledge in office systems adopted in Government offices and the ability of practical application of the
knowledge will be tested. Further, the candidates’ ability of understanding official correspondence, ability of indicating
observations/ideas precisely and clearly and the skill of drafting letters as per the instructions given will be tested. This
paper will consist of two parts :–
Part I – Consists of questions that require short answers. Answers should be provided on the paper itself. Should
answer all the questions. (25 marks) ;
Part II – A question paper of structured essay type. Should answer 03 out of 04 questions. (75 marks).
13.2 Accounting Systems (Subject No. 02) :
Candidates' knowledge in an understanding of basic accounting procedures adopted in Government offices and the
purposes of books and records on financial control will be tested. Paper will consist of two parts :–
Part I – Consists of questions that require short answers. Should provide answers on the paper itself. Should answer all
the questions. (25 marks) ;
Part II – A question paper of structured essay type. Should answer 03 out of 04 questions. (75 marks).
13.3 Test on Computer Skills (Subject No. 03) :
Objective of this test is to verify the candidate’s skills on the following :–
Basic concepts of Information Technology
Windows Operating System
File Management
Word Processing Basic skills, Screen Familiarization, Editing text Aligning Text, Fonts and Attributes,
Indenting Paragraphs, change of Line Spacing, Tab settings, Finding and replacing text,
Spelling and Grammar, Thesaurus.
Working with columns, Page setup
Printing documents, Creating Tables, Sorting text
File Management
Mail Merging
Working with macros
Spreadsheets Basic Skills
Formatting
Editing
Columns and ranges, Insertion and Deletion
Sorting data
Creating charts
Printing
@ Function
Working with Macros, File Management
Databases Introduction, Basic skills
Databases - Creation and application
Forms
Linked forms, Popup forms, Dialog and message boxes

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2010
159
Queries
Sorting
Reports
Working with macros
Presentations/Graphics Basic skills, editing, formatting
Applying Designs, Inserting images, clip art and graphs
Slide Transition and effects, Animations
Using Presentation tools, Preparing Masters, Printing slides and notes
Internet Introduction to Internet, World Wide Web, How to Navigate, Practical Internet
E-mail Introduction, basic skills, receiving mail, sending mail, responding to mails
Working with attachements, creating and using nicknames
Composing messages
This paper consists of two parts.
Part I.– Consists of 40 questions of MCQ type that require short answers - Duration 45 minutes (40 marks) ;
Part II.– 05 semi structured questions - Duration 45 minutes. (60 marks).
Note.– As per Section 5:1:2 of Public Management Assistants' Service Minute, officers who possess computer driving licenses
awarded by National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority or an equivalent or a higher certificate issued by
institutions recognized by Tertiary Education and V ocational Education Commission, which are given in Appendix I, will
be exempted from the written test on computer skills.
14.0 The decision of the Director General of Combined Services will be final in any matter not provided for in this notification.
B. P . P. S. A
BEYGUNARATHNA,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
13th January, 2010.
APPENDIX I
The document of computer Certificates issued by institutions recognized by Tertiary Education and V ocational Education
Commission.
Serial Name of Institute Address of Institute Course
No.
1. Computer Training Center No. 09, Dharmarama Mawatha, Colombo 06 Computer Application Assistant
2. Computer Training Center - NAITA Negombo Road, Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala Computer Application Assistant
3. Computer Training Center - NAITA No. 525/2 , Maithiripala Senanayaka Mawatha, Computer Application Assistant
Rathnanayakepura, Anuradhapura
4. Apprenticeship Training Institute No. 581, Galle Road, Katubedda, Moratuwa Computer Application Assistant
5. Computer Training Center - NAIT A Ratalankawatta, Mapalana, Kamburupitiya Computer Application Assistant
6. Sri Saranankara Apprentice Training Udawatta, Baddegama Computer Application Assistant
Centre - NAITA
7. Computer Training Center - NAIT A Mahaweli Economic Agency Building, Computer Application Assistant
Embilipitiya
8. Computer Education Center Divisional Secretariat Of fice, Anguruwatta, Computer Application Assistant
Madurawela

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2010
160
9. Technical College W erallawatta, Yakkala, Gampaha Computer Application Assistant
10. Yovun Nikethanaya Computer Application Assistant
11. V ocational Training Centre National Youth Services Council, Pallidora Road, Computer Application Assistant
Kawdana, Dehiwala
12. National Youth Services Council No. 65, High Level Road, Maharagama Computer Application Assistant
13. Don Bosco V ocational Training Centre Puttalam Road, Nochchiyagama Computer Application Assistant
14. Institute of Professional Computer No. 178A, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Compute r Application Assistant
Systems
15. Technology and Computer Training No. 15, 1/1, Piyadasa Sirisena Mawatha, Computer Application Assistant
Institute Colombo 10
16. Cholankanda Youth Trainng Centre Udahenthanna, S. P. O. 20506, Via Gampola Computer Application Assistant
17. Bishop Leo Technical Institute USCOD Center, St. Bedes Home, Badulla
18. SOS Children's Village of Sri Lanka V ocational Training Centre, Maduruketiya, Computer Application Assistant
Monaragala
19. Beeta Com Multimedia and Computer No. 20, Danovita Road, Meerigama Compute r Application Assistant
Studies
20. Don Bosco Technical Centre No. 22, Don Bosco Mawatha, Ettukala, Computer Application Assistant
Negombo
21. Rathanasela Nenasala Computer Centre Rathanasela Pirivena, Weegama, Rathmale, Computer Application Assistant
Ku/Itanawatta
22. Navoda Computer Education Institute No. 72, Devananda Road, Navinna, Maharagama Compute r Application Assistant
23. N. K. I. Computer Training Institute Manahara Building Pituwala Road, Elpitiya Computer Application Assistant
24. Lanka Tech Computer No. 2/52, Horana Road, Piliyandala Compute r Application Assistant
25. M. D. P. Computer Training Institute No. 64/A/1, Station Road, Kadana Computer Application Assistant
26. Infornet Computer Systems No. 143/1A, Ananda Senanayaka Complex, Compute r Application Assistant
Katuwana Road, Homagama
27. Informax Computer Technology No. 52, Matale Road, Galewela Compute r Application Assistant
28. Advance Training Centre (ATC) No. 02, Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Computer Application Assistant
29. Thondaman V ocational Training Centre Saumymoorthi Thondaman Memorial Compute r Application Assistant
Foundation Pool Bank Hatton
30. Sri Lanka Nippon Education and Mahindarama Road, Ethukotte, Kotte Compute r Application Assistant
Cultural Center
31. Rural V ocational Training Centre Mudukatuwa, Marawila Computer Application Assistant
32. District V ocational Training Centre Galigamuwa Town, Ballapana, Kegalle Computer Application Assistant
33. National V ocational Training Centre No. 354, Elvitigala Mawatha, Narahenpita, Computer Application Assistant
Colombo 05
34. District V ocational Training Centre Saragama Kurunagala Computer Application Assistant
35. National V ocational Training Institute No. 100, Kandawal a Road, Ratmalana Computer Application Assistant
36. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Meeta Social Service Foundation, Compute r Application Assistant
Weherahena W eherahena, Matara
37. District V ocational Training Centre Wattha, Tissa Road, Wellawaya Computer Application Assistant
38. Agonsu Training Center Saranawattha, Nayamulla, Morawaka Computer Application Assistant
39. Special V ocational Training Centre Higher Computer Training Institute, Fort, Compute r Application Assistant
Matara
40. Kubalgama Sunami Sri Jinendraramaya, Kubalgama, Weligama Computer Application Assistant
V ocational Training Centre
41. Lakviru Sevana Rural No. 48, Bodhirukkarama Mawatha, Computer Application Assistant
V ocational Training Centre Wellawaththa, Colombo 06
42. National V ocational T raining Institute Niyagama, Thalgaswala Computer Application Assistant
43. District V ocational Training Centre Mirijjawila, Hambanthota Compute r Application Assistant
44. Rural V ocational Training Centre Erukkalamiddy, Nagavillu, Palavi Computer Application Assistant
Serial Name of Institute Address of Institute Course
No.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2010
161
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
(For Office use only)
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION AND THE WRITTEN TEST ON COMPUTER SKILLS FOR OFFICERS IN CLASS III OF
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS' SERVICE – 2009(1)
Town Town No.
1.
2.
(Indicate the town in which you intend to sit
the examination as per Gazette notification)
 (This cannot be altered subsequently).
Language medium of examination :
Sinhala – 2
Tamil – 3
English – 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(This cannot be changed subsequently)
1.0 1.1 Name with Initials :–––––––––––.
(In block capitals) eg. : SILV A  A. B.
1.2 Name in full (In block capitals) :–––––––––––.
1.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
2.0 2.1 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution :–––––––––––.
(In block capitals)
2.2 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent :–––––––––––.
(In block capitals)
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female – 1
Male – 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 N. I. C. No. :
4.0 Subjects you are offering now : (Refer Para No. 13.0 of the Gazette notification) :
Serial No. Subject Subject No.
01.
02.
03.
5.0 Present Post :
5.1 Post :–––––––––––.
5.2 Appointment Letter Number :–––––––––––.
6.0 6.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :–––––––––––.
6.2 If not, value of the stamps affixed :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2010
162
6.3 Stamp Cage :
Please affix stamps to the value of Rs. 90 for whole Examination or for
the two subjects and Rs. 50 for only one subject.
N. B.– Candidates should affix stamps to the correct value and cancel them by placing his/her signature and date on them.
Stamps should not overlap when affixed.
I declare that the information furnished above is correct and I am eligible to sit for the examination in the language medium
mentioned above. The stamps affixed are valid and are to the value of Rs. ............. I agree to abide by the ruels and regul ations of this
examination imposed by the Commissioner-General of Examinations.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Note.– Candidate should place his/her signature in the presence of his/her respective Head of Department or an officer assigned
to sign on behalf of him.
ATTESTATION OF SIGNATURE
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ................................. who is an employee of my work station and who is personally kno wn to me
placed his/her signature in my presence on .................... and further stamps to the value of examination fee have been af fixed.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of the person attesting.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEP ARTMENT
I certify that,
(i) The information furnished above were verified and ;
(ii) The officer *has/has not appeared for the examination previously ;
(iii) The officer has appeared for the examination previously and *he/she has affixed stamps to the correct value ;
(iv) *He/She is eligible to appear for this examination.
*(Delete inapplicable words)
–––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of the
Head of the Department.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
01–829
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.