

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2273$13 - 2022 ud¾;= ui 29 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2022'03'29
No.  2273/13  -   tuesdAy,   MARCH  29,   2022
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist  Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
ThE  INDuSTRIAL   DISPuTES   ACT,  ChAPTER   131
My No : CI/05
tHe Collective Agreement entered into between Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC, No. 21, sir Razik Fareed Mawatha, 
Colombo 01 of the one part and the Ceylon Bank employees union, No. 20, temple Road, Colombo 10 of the other part on 
21st January 2021 is hereby published in terms of section 06 of the Industrial disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative 
enactments of Ceylon (Revised edition 1956)
 B. K. Prabath Chandrakeerthi,
 Commissioner General of Labour. 
department of Labour,
Labour secretariat,
Colombo 05.
09th of March, 2022.
1A-   G 36476 — 19  (03/2022)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
2A
Collective Agreement No. 9 of 2021
Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC Collective Agreement 
Non Executive Grades
this Collective Agreement made and entered on this 21st January 2021 between Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC, a Bank 
duly registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered office at No. 21, Sir Razik Fareed Mawatha (Formerly Bristol Street), 
Colombo 1 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Bank').
of One Part
and
The Ceylon Bank Employee's Union , a Trade Union duly registered in Sri Lanka and having its registerd office 
at No. 20, temple Road, Colombo 10 (hereinafter referred to as 'the union').
of the Other Part
WHeReAs the union made demands for re- negotiation of the Collective Agreement entered into on 16th January 
2018 between the parties hereto (Collective Agreement No. 04 of 2018) which came into effect on 1st January 
2018 and subsequent to negotiations between the Bank and the union, agreement has now been reached between 
the said two parties for the purpose of ensuring better employee terms and conditions, cooperation between the 
Bank, the Union and the employees, and maintaing an efficient and productive working environment, the matters 
agreed upon are set out hereunder;
1.    Parties to be Covered and Bound
this Agreement shall cover and bind Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC (the Bank), the Ceylon Bank employees'  
union (the union) and members of the union employed on permanent  monthly contracts of employment by 
the Bank and who are employed in any of the categories for whom a salary scale has been prescribed in this 
Agreement in the First schedule hereto (hereinafter referred to as the 'employees'), subject to the provisions 
of clauses 5, 6, 7 (a) hereof.
2.   Date of Operation and Duration
this Agreement shall be in force from the 1st January 2021 and shall continue until either party terminates it 
by written notice in terms of the Industrial disputes Act as amended, but no such notice shall be given before 
the 31st december 2023. the union shall, however, have the right to commence negotiations for a revised 
Collective Agreement at any time on or after 1st April 2023.
3.    Earlier Agreements
this Agreement shall supersede any other Collective Agreement entered into or binding on the parties hereto 
and such earlier Agreements including the said Collective Agreement entered into on 16th January 2018 
between the parties hereto (Collective Agreement No. 04 of 2018) shall stand repudiated in respect of the 
parties hereto.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
3A
4.    Matters Covered and Bound
(a) This agreement shall be in full and final settlement of all matters covered herein as well as of all the 
matters raised by the union and in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties before the 
conclusion of this Agreement and the union agrees that it will not during the continuance in force of this 
Agreement raise any of the matters which were discussed and negotiated between the parties preceding 
this Agreement except to the extent agreed.
(a) It is agreed by the parties covered and bound by this agreement that they shall not during the continuance in 
force of this agreement seek to vary, alter of add to all or any of the terms and conditions of employment or 
benefits presently applicable or enjoyed as provided for in this agreement other than by mutual agreement.
5.    Consolidated Salary
every employee covered by this Agreement in service as at the date of this Agreement shall, from the 
1st January 2021 be placed on the salary scale set out in the First schedule hereto, which salary has been 
consolidated at the Colombo Consumers' Price Index in accordance with the provision stated in Clause 7 (a).
6.    Immediate Increase and Conversion to Salary Scales
For the placement of an employee on the salary scale applicable in the First schedule, the following provisions 
shall apply;
i.    A sum equal to 5% of the gross salary (salary plus Cost of Living Allowance) payable to an employee 
as at 31st december 2020 shall be added to the salary of an employee as at such time and thereafter 
placed on the corresponding point on the scale applicable to such employee in the First schedule or 
if there is no corresponding point in rupee terms, on the next higher point of the said scale.
ii.   every employee in employment as at the date of this Agreement and having served in such grade for a 
period of not less than twelve (12) completed months shall also receive a further 7% increment calculated 
on the gross salary as at 31st December 2020 with effect from 1st January 2022, and proportionately 
for service less than twelve completed months at the rate of one - twelfth of such increase in respect 
of each completed month of service. thereafter placed on the corresponding Rupee point on the scale 
in the First schedule or if there is no such corresponding point in rupee terms, on the next higher point 
of the said scale.
iii. every employee in employment as at the date of this Agreement and having served in such grade for a 
period of not less than twelve (12) completed months shall also receive a further 7% increment calculated 
on the gross salary as at December 2020 with effect from 1st January 2023, and proportionately for 
service less than twelve completed months at the rate of one - twelfth of such increase in respect of 
each completed month of service. thereafter placed on the corresponding Rupee point on the scale in 
the First schedule or if there is no such corresponding point in rupee terms, on the next higher point 
of the said scale.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
4A
7.    Allowances / Payments/ Reimbursements
(a) Cost of Living Allowance
 A cost of living allowance will be paid in accordance with the CCPI (base year 2002) figure that was last 
published in the month of June 2011 (COL figure for the month of May 2011) by the Department of Census 
& statistics. Accordingly, the Bank shall pay each employee covered and bounded a sum per mensem as 
detailed below for the duration of this Collective Agreement;
a) Rs. 38,500/- with effect from 01.01.2021
b) Rs. 41,000/- with effect from 01.01.2022
c) Rs. 43,500/- with effect from 01.01.2023
 Provided, however, in the event of the department of Census & statistics publishing a linking factor 
pertaining to the rate of payment in relation to the Colombo Consumers' Price Index (Base year 2002) 
and the CCPI (Base year 2006/2007) and if parties so desire to discuss on the modalities of making this 
payment, either party may request for a discussion with the other party and the other party shall agree for 
such a discussion.
(b) Paymant for Telex Operators
 Where the Bank, as at the date of this Agreement, pays an allowance expressly as a Payment for telex 
Operators, the Bank will pay, as from the date of this Agreement, Rs. 100/- per day subject to a maximum 
of Rs. 1,800/- per month.
(c) VDu Operators' Payment
 the Bank will make a payment of Rs. 100/- per day up to a maximum of Rs. 2,000/- per month, only 
to employees who were in employment on 1st August 1988 and whose main or primary function is the 
operation of a Vdu. For purposes of this Agreement a person who regularly works not less than three (3) 
hours per day on a VDU will fall within the definition of a person whose main or primary function is the 
operation of a Vdu.
(d) Non -  receipt of Two Payments
 No employee will receive the said Payment for telex Operators plus the Payment for Vdu Operators and 
shall receive only one of the said Payments.
(e) Disturbance Payment 
 An Employee in the Office Assistant and Allied category who will be required to report for work at the 
following times will be entitled to a disturbance Payment as follows;
Before 4:00 a.m.  -  Rs. 800/-
Before 5:00 a.m.  -  Rs. 700/-
Before 6:00 a.m.  -  Rs. 650/-
Before 7:00 a.m.  -  Rs. 450/-
Before 7:30 a.m.  -  Rs. 300/-

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
5A
An employee in the typist and Allied Grade who will be required to report for work at the following times 
will be entitled to a disturbance Payment as follows;
Before 5:00 a.m.  -  Rs. 700/-
Before 6:00 a.m.  -  Rs. 650/-
Before 7:00 a.m.  -  Rs. 450/-
Before 7:30 a.m.  -  Rs. 325/-
(f) holiday Incentive
 employees covered by this Agreement will be entitled to receive a Holiday Incentive as follows on account 
of expenses incurred on a holiday during not less than 07 consecutive days of Annual Leave taken in any 
year;
i. Office Assistants and Allied grades -  Rs. 22,400/- (per annum) for the Year 2021 and Rs. 26,000/- (per 
annum) for years 2022 and 2023
ii. typists and Allied grades  - Rs. 24,400/- (per annum) for the year 2021 and Rs. 28,000/- (per annum) for 
years 2022 and 2023.
8.    Incremental Date
This Agreement shall not have the effect of changing the annual incremental date of an Employee.
9.    Promotion to Grade II 
subject to provisions of clauses 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 hereof, an employee who completes seven (7) years 
in Grade I, shall automatically be promoted to Grade II in his category and an employee so promoted shall 
receive not less than the value of two (2) increments in Grade I when placed in Grade II.
10.    Accelerated Promotion
i. From Grade I to Grade II
 employees who sit for and successfully pass the Institute of Bankers of sri Lanka examination or the 
Indian Institute of Banking & Finane will be considered for placement in Grade II, subject to the conditions 
reffered to at (a) and (b) hereunder, provided, however, that their past record of overall performance, 
attendance and conduct as assessed by the Bank Justifies such consideration.
(a) On successful completion of examinations leading to the full Associateship of the Institute of Bankers of sri 
Lanka (diploma in Banking and Finance/ diploma in Applied Banking and Finance) or the corresponding 
level of the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance or three (3) complete years of service with the Bank, or
(b) On successful completion of examinations leading to Intermediate in Banking and Finance/ Certificate 
in Banking & Finance / Intermediate in Applied Banking and Finance of the Institute of Bankers of sri 

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
6A
Lanka or the corresponding level of the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance or four (4) complete years 
of service with the Bank. 
11.    Promotions from Grade II to Grade III
the following principles shall apply to the promotion of an employee from Grade II to Grade III of the 
basic salary scales in the First schedule hereto:
(a)  All promotions to Grade III will be after an application made by an employee to the employer. Promotion 
granted consequent upon an application will be effective from the first of the month suceeding the 
month in which the application is made.
(b)  An employee eligible to make such application will be –
i.  An employee who has served for a minimum period of seven (7) years in Grade II, or
ii.  An Employee who has suceessfully completed the Intermediate in Banking and Finance/ Certificate 
in Banking & Finance / Intermediate in Applied Banking and Finance of the Institute of Bankers 
of sri Lanka or the corresponding level of the Indian Institute of Banking and Finanance, or 
minimum period of service of seven (7) years in Grade II or five (5) years post - qualification 
experience in Grade II, whichever is lower, or 
iii.  An employee who has completed all stages of the examination leading to the full Associateship 
of the Institute of Bankers of sri Lanka (diploma in Banking and Finance/ diploma in Applied 
Banking and Finance) or the corresponding level of the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance, or 
the minimum period of service of seven (7) years in Grade II or three (3) years post - qualification 
experience in Grade II, whichever is lower.
(c) Promotion to Grade III will not be automatic but will depend on a consistently good record of 
work, conduct, attendance and punctuality.
(d) the union will have the right to make representations to the Bank in respect of any particular 
non - promotion although such cannot be the subject matter of an Industrial dispute.
(e) On Promotion to Grade III an employee will be placed on a point which will result in an increase 
of not less than the value of two (2) increments in Grade II.
12.    Promotions from Grade III to Grade IV
(a)  All promotions to Grade IV will be after an application made by an employee to his employer. Promotion 
consequent upon an application will be effective from the first of the month succeeding the month in 
which the application is made.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
7A
(b)  An employee eligible to make such application will be –
i.  An employee who has served for a minimum period of seven (7) years in Grade III, or
ii.  An Employee who has suceessfully completed the Intermediate in Banking and Finance/ Certificate 
in Banking & Finance / Intermediate in Applied Banking and Finance of the Institute of Bankers 
of sri Lanka, or the corresponding level of the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance, or the 
minimum period of service of seven (7) years in Grade III or five (5) years post - qualification 
experience in Grade III, whichever is lower, or 
iii.  An employee who has completed all stages of the examination leading to the full Associateship 
of the Institute of Bankers of sri Lanka (diploma in Banking and Finance/ diploma in Applied 
Banking and Finance) or the corresponding level of the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance, or 
the minimum period of service of seven (7) years in Grade III or three (3) years post - qualification 
experience in Grade III, whichever is lower.
(c) Promotion to Grade IV will not be automatic but will depend on a consistently good record of 
work, conduct, attendance and punctuality.
(d) the union will have the right to make representations to the Bank in respect of any particular 
non - promotion although such cannot be the subject matter of an Industrial dispute.
(e) On Promotion to Grade IV an employee will be placed on a point which will result in an increase 
of not less than the value of two (2) increments in Grade III.
13.    Promotions from Grade IV to Grade V
(a)  All promotions to Grade V will be after an application made by an employee to his employer. Promotion 
consequent upon an application will be effective from the first of the month succeeding the month in 
which the application is made.
(b)  An employee eligible to make such application will be –
i.  An employee who has served for a minimum period of seven (7) years in Grade IV , or
ii.  An Employee who has suceessfully completed the Intermediate in Banking and Finance/ Certificate 
in Banking & Finance / Intermediate in Applied Banking and Finance of the Institute of Bankers 
of sri Lanka, or the corresponding level of the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance, or the 
minimum period of service of seven (7) years in Grade IV or five (5) years post - qualification 
experience in Grade IV , whichever is lower, or 
iii.  An employee who has completed all stages of the examination leading to the full Associateship 
of the Institute of Bankers of sri Lanka (diploma in Banking and Finance/ diploma in Applied 
Banking and Finance) or the corresponding level of the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance, or 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
8A
the minimum period of service of seven (7) years in Grade IV or three (3) years post - qualification 
experience in Grade IV , whichever is lower.
(c) Promotion to Grade V will not be automatic but will depend on a consistently good record of 
work, conduct, attendance and punctuality.
(d) the union will have the right to make representations to the Bank in respect of any particular 
non - promotion although such cannot be the subject matter of an Industrial dispute.
(e) On Promotion to Grade V an employee will be placed on a point which will result in an increase 
of not less than the value of two (2) increments in Grade IV .
14.    Re- designation of Typist of Junior Executive Assistant Grade
A typist shall be considered for re- designation as Junior executive Assistant provided he/she possesses the 
following eligibility requirenments:
(a)  Three (3) years service and passing the Intermediate in Banking and Finance/Certificate in Banking 
and Finance/ Intermediate in Applied Banking and Finance of the Institute of Bankers of sri Lanka or 
the Corresponding level of the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance.
(b)  On completion of the Final examination of the Institution of Bankers of sri Lanka (diploma in Banking 
and Finance/ diploma in Applied Banking and Finance) or the corresponding level of the Indian Institute 
of Banking and Finance.
(c) Six (6) years service and the relevant qualifications for entry as a Junior Executive Assistant.
(d)  Six (6) years service without the requisite qualifications for entry as a Junior Executive Assistant but 
subject to success at a written examination and IT practical test conducted by the Bank or on confirmation 
from the respective Branch Manager/Head of department that the typist concerned is suitable for re- 
designation and has been performing duties of a Junior executive Assistant for four (4) consecutive 
years and the successful completion of the practical test and interview conducted by the Bank.
Provided that where as typist is promoted as a Junior executive Assistant under this Clause/ he/she shall 
have three (3) service as a Junior executive Assistant to be considered for promotion thereafter.
15.     Promotions - Office Assistants
Without prejudice to the right of the Bank to recruit staff as its discretion, the Bank will give an opportunity 
to the employees in this Grade to apply for the Post of Junior executive Assistant on an annual basis provided 
they meet with the required criteria for promotions.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
9A
(a)  Office Assistants to Junior Executive Assistants.
i.  Any Employee in the Office Assistant Grade whose record of Service, conduct and attendance 
has been satisfactory, with more than four (4) years of service with the Bank who has necessarily 
completed the Intermediate in Banking and Finance / Certificate in Banking and Finance/ 
Intermediate in Applied Banking and Finance of the Institute of Bankers of sri Lanka or the 
corresponding level of the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance, will be eligible to apply and 
will be considered for such Junior executive Assistant position. the selection process will include 
medical examinations, interviews, written tests and It Practical tests etc, as determined by the 
Bank. Vacancies will be advertised internally each year.
ii. Any Employee in the Office Assistant Grade whose record of service and conduct has been 
satisfactory, with more than eight (8) years service with the Bank, shall be exempted from 
the minimum education qualifications stipulated and may apply for such vacancy and will be 
considered in the manner specified at (i) above.
iii.  Any Employee in the Office Assistant Grade promoted in the manner specified above will be 
required to serve a period of probation of twelve (12) months which may be extended by the 
Bank for a further period of up to six (6) months during which, or at the end of which, the Bank 
may at its discretion revert such employee to his earlier position and salary.
iv.  Any Employee in the Office Assistant Grade promoted to the Grade of Junior Executive Assistant 
will be paid a salary at the commencement point of the Junior executive Assistant salary range 
or otherwise proportionately placed, subject to the employee receiving increases that will be not 
less than the value of two (2) increments on the scale applicable to him in the Office Assistant 
scale.
 The decision of the Bank in respect of selection for promotion shall be final and conclusive.
13.    Provident Fund
(a)  Rate of Contribution
 the rates of contribution to the Provident Fund shall be;
Bank's contribution  - 12% (twelve per cent) * of salary
employee's contribution - 8% (eight per cent) of salary
*Provided however, any increase to the employers' contribution in terms of the ePF Act No. 15 of 1958 
as amended and any direction in furtherance to that by the authorities shall be adopted by the Bank.
Provident Fund contributions shall be on the consolidated salary referred to at Clause 5 hereof and the 
amount paid for that month as Cost of Living Allowance subject to the Rules of the Provident Fund.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
10A
(b)  Interest on Provident Fund Contributions held by the Bank
 Where as Provident Fund monies are invested in the Bank, the Bank shall continue to pay the rate 
of interest paid on 12 months'  fixed deposits for a sum of Rs. 100,000/- published by the N. S. B. 
prevailing as at the 1st January for the first half of the year and on the rate prevailing on the 1st July 
for the second half of the year on the net Provident Fund Monies invested at the Bank.
(c)  Deficiency in Bank's Contributions to Provident Fund to an Employee not entitled to a Pension
 Where an employee shall cease to be employed by the Bank in circumstances which do not entitle 
him to a pension or payment in lieu of pension as the case may be, such employee shall be entitled to 
the difference between the Bank's contributions made to the Fund during his period of service and the 
employer's minimum rate of contribution he would have been entitled to, in terms of the employee's 
Provident Fund Act and its amendments from time to time as a contribution to the Fund by the employer 
on behalf of such Employee. Such deficiency will be the difference between the following minimum 
rates of contribution under the Act and 10% of basic salary actually contributed by the Bank up to 31st 
March 1992.
From 1.1.1971 to 31.12.1980 - 9% of gross salary
From 1.1.1981 onwards   - 12% of gross salary
Prior to 31.12.1970 the employer's minimum rate of contribution was 6% of total earnings (gross salary) 
which was less than 10% of basic salary and therefore no deficiency arises.
17.    Terminal Benefits
(a)  Pensions
 An employees shall, upon reaching the retirement age of the Bank, i. e. , 60 years or in terms of his 
contract of employment at 55 years, and who is in the permenant employment of the Bank at such time, 
and shall have completed not less than ten (10) years of actual continous service (excluding absence/ 
leave without pay), be entitled to a monthly pension computed on the following basis: 
i.  Employees opting to retire at 55 years
Number of completed years of    Monthly Gross salary
Pensionable service (subject to a  X payable for the month
maximum of 35 years) plus 5 years          of Retirement
55
ii.  Employees opting to retire at 60 years
Number of completed years of    Monthly Gross salary
Pensionable service (subject to a  X payable for the month
maximum of 40 years) plus 5 years         of Retirement
60

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
11A
(b)  Premature Retirement on Medical Grounds/ Disability
 An Employee who is found to be unable to continue to perform his duties as a result of infirmity/ 
disability, as certified by the Bank's Doctor\/ Medical Specialist/ Government Medical Board, and 
who is in the permenent employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed not less than 
ten (10) years of actual continuous service (excluding absense/leave without pay) shall be entitled to a 
pension computed on the same basis referred to at Clause 17 (a) above. Provided, however, that where 
an employee is entitled to compensation by the Bank under any laws in force at the time or an Award 
of  Court, such employee shall only be entitled to a pension or such compensation as opted by him, 
but not to both. Provided, further that in the case of an employee whose premature retirement occurred 
in consequence of an accident which entitled him to compensation, the pre- acceptance of pension 
as provided herein will not restrict the right of such employee in subsequent claiming any balance 
compensation under any written law.
 
(c)  Lump Sum Gratuity in Lieu of Pension Rights 
 An employee who is entitled to receive a pension in terms of (a) or (b) above may at his discretion opt 
for the payment of a lump sum gratuity in lieu of his pension and any other payments arising therefrom. 
the payment will be computed on the following basis:
i.  Employees opting to retire at 55 years
Number of completed years of    Monthly Gross salary
Pensionable service (subject to a  X payable for the month
maximum of 35 years) plus 5 years          of Retirement
ii.  Employees opting to retire at 60 years
Number of completed years of    Monthly Gross salary
Pensionable service (subject to a  X payable for the month
maximum of 40 years) plus 5 years         of Retirement
 The above payment shall constitute a settlement in full and final satisfaction of all claims against the 
Bank on account of the cessation of employment in respect of gratuity, pension, deficiency if any, in 
the Bank's contribution to Provident Fund to an employee not paid a pension in terms of Clause 17.
(d)  Death Gratuity
 On the death of an Employee who has been confirmed and is in the permenent employment of the Bank,  
the Bank will make a compassionate payment of two months gross salary for each year of completed 
service subject to a minimum of nine months' gross salary to the legitimate dependents of the deceased 
employee, as may de determined by the Bank at its sole discretion on the basis of information supplied 
to them. In the case of the death of an Employee who is not confirmed in employment the amount 
payable will be 50% of that payable to a confirmed Employee provided that in the case of an Employee 
who has not been confirmed consequent upon a promotion to a higher grade, the gratuity payable will 

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
12A
be calculated as in the case of a confirmed Employee. The gross salary for this purpose shall be the 
last drawn salary.
 Provided, however, that in the event of death arising out of and in the course of employment, the 
dependents shall be entitled to and receive either the death gratuity referred to herein or payment by 
way of compensation under any laws in force at the time on account of employee's Compensation or 
under any other law or an Award of Court, whichever is higher. Provided further that in the case of an 
employee whose death occurred in consequence, the pre-acceptance of death gratuity as provided herein 
shall not restrict the right of such dependents in subsesquently claiming any balance compensation due 
to them under any written law.
(e)  Commuted Pension 
 
i.  At the option of the employee at the time of retirement, 25% of the monthly pension into 120 will 
be paid to employees who are entitled to a pension, who do not opt for a lump sum payament as 
provided for the in the agreement and who opt for such commuted pension.
ii.  Where an employee commutes his monthly pension in the manner aforesaid, the monthly pension 
payable to him during the first ten (10) years of retirement will be 75% of the monthly  penision 
he would have been entitledd to at the time of retirement if he had not so commuted his pension. 
After the expiry of the said ten (10) years the amount of the monthly pension so commuted will 
be restored and added to the monthly pension the being paid.
(f)  Alternate Ternimal Benefit Plan 
 
i.  An Employee who opted for the Alternate Terminal Benefit Plan under the Re- structued Pension 
Scheme offered by the Bank will not be entitled to a monthly pension on reaching the agreed 
retirement age nor will such employee be entitled to any statutory gratuity which is built in to 
the terminal benefits lump-sum payable under the re- structured scheme at the time of retirement/ 
separation.
ii.  Further, as per the Re- structurd Pension scheme, in the event of early separation prior to retirement 
(excluding death) an Employee will be entitled to withdraw the accumlated amount in the Defined 
Contribution Fund Account, subject to rules of the Fund on forfeiture.
iii.  However, in the event of death of an eligible employee whilst in service, the full accumulation 
will be released to the nominated party/parties or legal heirs.
(g)  Defined Contribution Pension Fund (DCP Fund)
 
i.  Defined Contribution Pension Fund is a definite payment in the form of a lump sum, established 
and constituted to provide and maintain superannuation benefits to an eligible employee in lieu of 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
13A
the entitled gratuity payments under the Gratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983 at the time of his retirement 
or separation from service.
ii.  eligible employee', is a regular full time employee in the Bank's service, who joined the Bank 
after 01.01.2000 as a Banking trainee or to any other grade in the permenent cadre of the Bank, 
and includes the three employees namely, Mrs. A. C. Hettiarachchi (02142), Mr. V . s. Goonetilake 
(02409) and Mr. H. d. s. C. Perera (03229), but not entitled for the Re- structured  Pension/ 
Pension Scheme of the Bank and who has a period of service of not less than five completed 
years of actual service.
iii. Temporary employees on a fixed term contract or a pensioner who has been re - employed by the 
Bank after retirement are excluded from the above mentioned dCP Fund.
iv.  In the absence of a nomination of a Nominee or Nominees, legal heirs of an eligible employee 
shall be entitled to receive dCP Fund balance in the form of a Commuted Pension lying to the 
Credit in the name of the eligible employee.
18.    Medical Scheme
i.  Reimbursement of Medical Expenses - Non hospitalization Expenses
 the Bank will reimburse;
1.  Office Assistant and Allied Grades - Rs. 28,000/- (per annum) for the year 2021 and Rs. 35,000/- (per 
annum) for years 2022 and 2023
2.  t ypists and Allied Grades - Rs. 28,000/- (per annum) for the year 2021 and Rs. 35,000/- (per annum) 
for years 2022 and 2023
 In respect of medical expenditure incurred by him on his own behalf, on behalf of his spouse or 
unmarried legitimate children under the age of 21in respect of routine non-hospitalisation/ non-surgical 
and specialist treatment.
 An Employee who has a differently abled child/children is entitled to receive Rs. 70,000/- per annum 
as medical expenses in addition to the amount specified above, subject to the recommendation of the 
Medical Board and registration with the Compensation and Benefits Unit of the Bank.
ii.  Special Non hospitalization and Non - Surgical Expenses
 the Bank will reimburse an employee on a non - cumulative basis a further sum up to a maximum 
as given below per annum on account of special non - hospitalisation and non- surgical expenses 
covering the following items only incurred on behalf of the employee and not on behalf of his family 

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
14A
members in keeping with the existing practice of such reimbursement:
(a)  spectacles
 1. Office Assistants and Allied Grades  - Rs. 30,000/-
 2. typists and Allied Grades   - Rs. 30,000/-
(b)  dentures/ Nerve Filling/ Root Filling
 1. Office Assistants and Allied Grades  - Rs. 25,000/-
 2. typists and Allied Grades   - Rs. 25,000/-
(c)  Hearing Aids
 1. Office Assistants and Allied Grades  - Rs. 50,000/-
 2. typists and Allied Grades   - Rs. 50,000/-
 subject to valid documentation as detailed in (iv) hereunder and subject to the provision that 
no  claim is made in relation to any particular item more than once in three (3) years, other than 
in respect of employees over the age of forty (40) years who will be entitled to reimbursement 
on account of spectacles once in two years. In respect of spectacles, it muse be supported by a 
prescription from a Medical eye specialist.
ii.  Surgical and hospitalisation Expenditure
 employees will be reimbursed on account of surgical and hospitalisation (whether Government 
or Private) expenses incurred on behalf of the employee, his spouse and unmarried legitimate 
children under twenty one (21) years of age subject to the production of valid documentation 
covering every claim or expenditure, up to the following limts per annum
(a)  Hospital or Nursing Room Charges
 daily Limit    -  Rs. 18,000/-
 Government Hospital payment  - Rs. 6,000/-
 the Bank will reimburse the actual room charges in the event the patient has undergone 
intensive care treatment.
(b)  emergency t reatment travel
 expenses (maximum )   -  Rs. 4,500/-
 * the rate is Rs. 45/- per Kilometer
(c)  Overall limit for any one year
 1. Office Assistants and Allied Grades  - Rs. 315,000/- per annum
 2. typists and Allied Grades   - Rs. 325,000/- per annum
 Where the employee is aged 30 years or above, expenses he/she incurs on account of full body 
medical checkups, without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum of 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
15A
Rs. 25,000/- per annum in addition to this entitlement.
 Where the employee's spouse is aged 30 years or above, expenses he/she spouse incurs on account 
of full body medical checkups, without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a 
maximum of Rs. 25,000/- per annum. under the reimbursement of hospitalization expenditure.
iv.  General
 If both husband and wife are employees, and the bill exceeds the limit of one employee, the balance 
to be paid from the spouse's entitlement subject to a maximum of 50% of the full entitlement/ 
available limit.
 All medical claims mentioned above, except for Reimbursement of Medical expenses for Non - 
Hospitalisation expeses shall be supported by valid and relevant prescription, bills and receipts. 
Prescriptions or doctor's bills shall be from a Registered Medical Practitioner.
 the second schedule hereto sets out the terms on which reimbursement of medical expenditure 
will be effected.
19.    Retirement
(a)  the age of retirement shall be sixty (60) years , or any other age mutually agreed to between the Bank 
and its employees, and on reaching the age of sixty (60), or any other age mutually agreed upon, an 
employee shal ipso facto retire and cease to be employed by the Bank and there shall be no obligation 
on the Bank to give such employee any notice of such retirement.
(b)  An Employee may also be retired within a period of five (5) years prior to his retirement age and be 
eligible for retirement benefits if he/she has ten (10) or more years of service, subject to mutual agreement 
between the employee, his union and the employer that he/she should be given such concession and 
subject to the condition that the refusal by any party to agree to such premature retirement shall not 
constitute an industrial dispute.
20.    Bonus
 Without prejudice to the claim of the Bank that bonus payments are ex- gratia, the Bank will each year pay 
to every employee covered by ths Agreement a bonus of two (2) months' salary as drawn by such employee 
for the month of december in respect of one completed year of service meaning January to december and 
proportionately for service less than one (1) year at the rate one - twelfth (1/12th) of such entitlement in 
respect of each complete month of service. However, if an employee is terminated/ resigned from services 
before completion of one year meaning January to december, he is not entitled for any bonus.
 

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
16A
 the salary for this purpose shall include the Cost of Living Allowance payable for that month.
21.    Probation
every employee recruited by the Bank will serve a period of nine (9) months probation subject to the right 
of the Bank to extend the period of probation by a period of three (3) months.
22.   Release of Parent Union Office Bearers
An Office Bearer of the Union shall be released for Union work without payment of any salary, allowance 
or any other payment of whatever nature on the following basis:
(a)  The toatal number of Office Bearers so relased shall not exceed one (1)
(b)  No employee shall be released for more than two (2) years on a single occasion during a period of six 
(6) years.
(c)  On resumption of work by an Office Bearer who has been relased for Union work, he shall receive 
incremental credit for the period of his absence from work and such absence shall not affect his rights 
under Clause 17 hereof.
23.   Concessions to Branch Union Office Bearers and Central Committe Members
(a)  The Bank shall at its discretion permit the release of not more than two (2) Branch Union Office 
Bearers at any one (1) given occasion without loss of pay exclusively to enable such Branch union 
Office Bearers to be present at inquiries before the Labour Department, Labour Tribunal, Arbitrations, 
Industrial Courts and Bank Management - exclusively on matters pertaining to the Bank.
 It is agreed that Central Committee Members of the union wil be premitted to leave at 12.00 noon on 
twelve (12) days in a year for meetings. In the case of oustation Central Committee Members, they 
would be permitted leave for the whole day for twelve (12) Central Commiteee Meetings in a year. 
For this purpose an outstation Branch is one situated more than thirty (30) miles from Colombo.
(b)  It is agreed that a day's paid leave shall be granted on two (2) occasions per year to Central Committee 
Members to attend Parent union Central Committee meetings.
(c)  It is agreed that executive Committee members will be released at 3.00 p. m. for meetings of the 
executive Committee of the union. these meetings will not usually be more than on a monthly basis.
(d)  It is agreed that the Bank will release without loss of pay up to a maximum of one (1) day, once in 
two (2) years, all employees in the membership of the Central Committe of the union and the union 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
17A
Branch delegates in the Bank, to attend the National delegates Conference of the union provided 
however, that the Bank is given two (2) weeks written notice of the Conference and not more than one 
(1) employee attached to any single Branch/ department of the Bank is so released.
24.   Special Leave to Visit Outstation Branches
The Bank shall permit Office Branch of Union employed by the Bank paid leave to visit outstation Branches 
calculated on the basis of a day's leave available for each such Branch, i. e., if there are X Branches the total 
number of days paid leave available shall also be X. For this purpose an outstation Branch is one situated 
more than thirty (30) miles from Colombo.
25.   Overtime
i. If required by his employer an employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized 
by the employer, subject to the provisions of any of any law for the time being in force.
ii. Overtime work shall be remunerated in accordance with the provisions of the Shop and Office Employees 
Act.
26.   Leave
a.  Annual Leave
(i). entitlement
 In respect of each year of employment (which means the period January to december) during which 
an employee has been in continuous employment he/she shall be entitled to take in the following year 
twenty one (21) working days paid leave. He/she shall avail him/herself of at least seven (7) days out 
of the twenty one (21) days on successive days and shall in respect of each year avail him/herself of 
not less than fourteen (14) days out of the said twenty one (21) working days.
(ii) At the end of the first year of employment the Employee qualifies for proportionate leaves as follows:
 
(a)  the full annual holiday of twenty one (21) days if his employment commenced on or after 1st 
January but before 1st April.
(b)  A holiday of fifteen (15) days if his employment commenced on or after 1st April but before 1st 
July.
(c)  A holiday of  eleven (11) days if his employment commenced on or after 1st July but before 1st 
October and.
(d)  A holiday of six (6) days if his employment commenced on or after 1st October.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
18A
ii). Availment
 the availment of all annual leave shall be by prior authorization of the Bank upon the employee's 
application, giving sufficient notice to the Bank, so as to ensure availment at times mutually convenient.
iii). Accumulation
 Annual leave may be accumulated by an employee at the rate of seven (7) days per annum exclusively 
for purpose referred to hereunder, up to a maximum period of ninety (90) days.
(a)  For availment in full, immediately preceding retirement by mutual arrangement with the Bank.
(b)  For the purpose of attending on a family member who is seriously ill.
(c)  For travel abroad for which purpose one (1) month's prior notice shall be given.
(d)  For marriage of the employee.
(e)  On account of the death of a family member, provided that the employee has exhausted his current 
year's leave.
(f)  For purposes of nursing third and fourth children beyond the Maternity Leave entitlement.
(g)  For the confinement of a wife, by a male employee.
(h)  Prolonged illness of the employee.
(iv) Any Annual leave not utilized by an employee up to a maximum of seven (7) days per year in excess 
of the number of ninety (90) days accumulated as provided herein may be encashed by the employee 
on request, by the Bank at an amount equal to one (1) day's salary per each day unavailed of.
(v) Provided that in the case of (iv) (b) to (g) above  the approval of such leave shall be at the discretion 
of the Management.
(vi) Family member for purposes of (iv) (b) and (e) above shall mean spouse, children or parents.
(b)  Medical Leave
(i) entitlement
 An employee shall be entitled to not less than twenty four (24) days leave exclusive of weekly or other 
holidays in any one (1) year, in case of sickness on full pay, subject to the conditions in sub- clause 
(ii) hereof.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
19A
(ii) Availment
 the Bank will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for any days of absence on grounds of sickness not 
supported by a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner.
(a)  Where such period of absence exceeds two (2) consecutive days including weekly or other holidays, 
or
(b)  Where the number of days already allowed on full pay on grounds of sickness, uncertified by a 
Registered Medical Practitioner, is in excess of twelve (12) days.
(iii). Accumulation
 An employee who takes less than his entitlement in any one (1) year as prescribed above shall be 
entitled to avail himself of the balance of his entitlement for such year in any suceeding year or years, 
subject to the following provisions:
(a)  in no case shall the entitlement of medical leave on full pay, by reason of such accumulation, 
exceed ninety (90) days, and
(b)  the accumulated medical leave may only be availed of on account of prolonged illness, 
hospitalisation or similar circumstances, supported by a Certificate from a Registered Medical 
Practitioner.
(c)  Where an employee has exhausted his current year's sick leave as a result of prolonged illness 
such as an infectious disease or prolonged hospitalization, the employer may permit him to set off 
any further absence on grounds of ill health against such accumulated sick leave up to the extent 
of the leave taken for such earlier prolonged illness.
(iv) the Bank will be entitled, after inquiry and advising the employee concerned, to refuse to pay and /
or take any action as appropriate in situations where the absence on grounds of sickness not supported 
by a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner, occurs in the following circumstances.
(a)  where the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the application and /or reason 
for absence of an employee, or 
(b)  Where the absence of the employee on grounds of sickness immediately follows or precedes 
any weekly or other holiday and the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the 
application and/or reason for absence of the employee.
(c)  Casual Leave
 An employee shall be entitled to a maximum of seven (7) days casual leave in each year of employment 
whereof not more than two (2) days shall be taken at any one given time and such leave shall not 

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
20A
precede or follow any period of annual leave. All casual leave shall be by prior approval of the Bank, 
unless the reason for such absence is justified to the satisfaction of the Bank as being in circumstances 
that could not have been foreseen by such employee.
(d)  Maternity Leave
 the leave that an employee is entitled to in this regard shall be governed as per the provisions of the 
Shop and Office Employees' Act. However, where as female employee has given birth to twins/triplets/
other multiple birhs upon her first confinement, she will be entitled to enhanced maternity leave of 84 
working days in respect of her next confirnement, provided is it a live birth.
27.   Suspension
(i). Where an employee is suspended pending a disciplinay inquiry on investigations, he will, subject to 
the provisions of sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) below, receive half his salary from the date of suspension 
up to six (6) months and full pay thereafter, subject to the condition that the delay was not due to the 
employee concerned.
(ii) Where the suspension is on account of charges involving financil dishonesty such as fraud or 
misappropiration, the employee will not be entitled to any salary during the period of suspension 
unless the inquiry is not concluded within six (6) months of the date of suspension in which event he 
will receive half his salary (salary plus Cost of Living Allowance) during his suspension beyond the 
said six (6) months period. Provided that if the delay beyond six (6) months is due to the employee's 
own conduct or due to the employee being in custody or remand thereby making it impossible for the 
Bank to hold or conclude the inquiry, half such salary as aforementioned will not be payable.
(iii) In case not involving financial dishonesty as aforementioned, where the employer is prevented from 
concluding the inquiry within six (6) months of suspension for reasons beyond the employer's control 
such as where the employee makes repeated requests for postponements or where he is remanded or 
in Police custody or where the matter is under investigation by the Police, the employee will continue 
to receive half his salary and will not receive full pay in these circumstances.
28.   Disciplinary Procedure
Where the Bank proposes to take disciplinary action against an employee except, however, in the case of 
oral warning, letters of advice, caution or warnings for minor offenses, the following procedure shall apply:
(a)  Irrespective of whether such employee has been suspended or not, the employee shall be furnished with 
a show cause letter which shall set out the particulars of the charges against such employee and such 
show case letter shall give the employee not less than ten (10) calendar days within which to tender 
his explanation in writing to the charges preferred.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
21A
(b)  Within ten (10) calendar days after the date of the show cause letter the employee shall tender in writing 
to the Bank his explanation to the aforesaid charges provided however that if in the circumstances it 
is reasonable, the employee may request the Bank for an extension of time within which to tender the 
written explanation and where such request is made, the Bank shall normally grant such request for 
such further period of time as is considered necessary by the Bank in the circumstances.
(c)  If where the employee tenders his explanation within the period of time allowed to the employee to 
show cause and the Bank is satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall withdraw the charge/s 
against the employee and if the employee is under suspension, the Bank shall forthwith reinstate the 
employee and shall pay to such employee his salary and entitlements in respect of the period of such 
suspension.
(d) Where the employee tenders his explanation within the time allowed to him to show cause and the 
Bank is not satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall, subject to sub- clause (k) (iii) hereof, hold 
an inquiry into the charges against such employee.
  (e)  The Bank shall commence an inquiry as reffered to in sub - clause (d) hereof within twenty one (21) 
working days from the date of receipt by them of the written explanation to the show cause letter unless 
it is not possible to do so for reasons beyond the Bank's control, or by reason of the employee's own 
conduct or seeking, or by reson of unforeseen circumstances.
(f)  the Bank will permit a member of the Branch union of the same Grade or of a Higher Grade than the 
accused employee or an Office Bearer of the Branch Union irrespective of grade (in which case the Bank 
reserves to itself the right to prevent the person carrying on the defense for unacceptable conduct) to 
defend the accused employee at a domestic inquiry provided the defending employee has not obtained 
a legal qualification. The defending employee will not suffer any loss of salary for absence from work 
on this account. the Bank will further allow another member of the Branch union to be present at 
the inquiry as an Observer without loss of salary for absence from work. the accused employee shall 
submit to the Bank in writing the name of the defending employee and Observer not less than 48 hours 
before the time appointed for the commencement of the inquiry, the defending employee shall be 
entitled to examine the witnesses for the accused employee and cross examine witnesses for the Bank. 
The Inquiring Officer will be entitled to require a defending employee or Observer who obstructs the 
inquiry to withdraw there from and the defending employee or Observer shall forthwith comply with 
such requirement. the absence of a defending employee or Observer from the whole or any part of an 
inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, not the proceedings thereat, nor the 
findings pursuant thereto. The Observer shall not be entitled to participate in the proceedings but he 
may answer any question which the Inquiring Officer may ask him.
(g) the u nion will be entitled to a copy of the proceedings of the inquiry conducted subject to the Observer 
and the accused employee signing proceedings as a correct record. After the proceedings have been 
certified and a copy issued to the accused employee for all purposes thereafter the proceedings shall 
be taken as a true copy of such proceedings before the Inquiring Officer. 

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
22A
(h) The Inquiring Office shall maintain his impartiality and shall not attempt to act the role of prosecution 
as well.
(i) Within thiry (30) working days after the conclusion of the inquiry the Bank shall inform the employee, 
in writing, of the findings in respect of the charges and of the punishment, if any, imposed by the 
employer.
(j) Where the Bank fails to inform the employee as aforesaid within the said period of thirty (30) working 
days except for reasons beyond the control of the Bank or by reason of the conduct of the employee, 
such employee shall not be punished thereafter in respect of such charges and no inference adverse to 
the employee shall be drawn in respect of such charges.
(k) Notwtihstanding the preceding provisions, the Bank shall not be required to hold a domestic inquiry 
in any of the following circumstances:
(i) Where the employee fails to tender his written explanation before the expiry of the time allowed 
to show cause in which event the Bank shall be entitled to take disciplinay action on the basis 
that such employee had no cause to show.
(ii) Where the employee makes a written admission of the charges against him.
(iii) Where the Bank proposes to warn an employee, but without prejudice to the union's right to 
request the employer thereafter to hold an inquiry in which event the fact that the inquiry did 
not commence within twenty one (21) working days after receipt of the employee's explanation 
shall not be material or relevant.
(I) The findings of a domestic inquiry and the punishment if any imposed by the Bank shall be final and 
binding on the Bank and the employee and the union, unless the employee or the union shall within 
three (3) months from the date on which the Bank had notified such employee of the findings or 
punishment, raises a dispute in respect of such findings and/or punishment.
(m) Where an employee is under suspension and the Bank makes order that –
(i) the employment of the employee shall be terminated, then the termination of such employement 
shall take effect as from the date of suspension or such later date as the Bank may determine; 
provided further that the Bank shall not be entitled to recover from the employee any payment 
made in respect of salary to the employee in respect of such period of suspension, if any such 
payment has been made.
(ii) the employment of the employee shall not be terminated, then the employee shall be employed 
forthwith and shall be paid the entirety of his salary in respect of the period of suspension without 
prejudice to the right of the Bank to impose such other punishment other than termination, which 
may include the whole or part of the period of suspension pending inquiry, on the basis of the 
findings of the inquiry.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
23A
(n) the observance by the Bank of sub -  clauses (e), (i) and (j) shall not be necessary where an inquiry is 
not held in view of the fact that the matter under inquiry is being referred, or has been reffered, to the 
Police or other authorities for investigation or inquiries or in view of the fact that criminal charges are 
pending against the employee.
29.   Technology
(i). the third schedule hereto contains matters relating to new Computer Based Banking technology 
agreed upon between the parties.
(ii)  the union will be free to make representations on matters relating to the introduction of new Computer 
Based Banking technology in the Bank other than on matters covered in this Agreement and subject 
to sub - clause (ii) above.
(iii) Notwithstanding the provisions of (iii) above, the union will not be entitled to raise any industrial 
dispute on matters relating to Computer Based Banking technology, will not resort to any industrial 
action in that regard and any representations/dispute in that connection shall not fall within the meaning 
of an industrial dispute under the laws of sri Lanka.
(iv)  It is agreed that any matter raised by the Union relating to the adverse effects of the use of computers 
shall be referred to the Monitoring Committee set up under the Collective agreement for resolution. 
In the event of the Monitoring Committee not being able to satisfy the union, such matter shall be 
referred to the department of Health and safety of the Labour department and the recommendation 
given by the doctor - in - Charge shall be accepted by both parties and where changes are necessary 
in terms of such recommendation the Monitoring Committe shall prevail on the Bank concerned to 
implement such changes.
30.   Trade union Action
(a)  Matters Related and Covered in the Agreement
(i) the union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the 
Bank that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other 
form of trade union action including go - slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of 
collective action against the Bank in respect of any dispute related to this Agreement. However, a dispute 
arising out of a failed negotiation for a fresh Collective Agreement after 31st day of december 2023, 
cannot be constued interpreted and/or implied by the employer as a dispute related to this Agreement.
(ii) In the event there been so satisfactory settlement of the dispute arising out of a failed negotiation for 
a fresh collective agreement aforesaid, and if the parent union decides to resort to any form of trade 
union action, the parent union shall give at least foruteen (14) days' notice in writing to the Bank, the 

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
24A
employers' Federation of Ceylon and the Commissioner General of Labour before the date of such 
trade union action. However such notice shall not be given prior to 31st March 2024.
(b)  Matters Not Related and Not Covered in this Agreement
 the union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with 
the Bank that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or 
other form of trade union action including go - slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any 
form of collective action against the Bank in respect of any dispute that may arise on any matter not 
related to this Agreement until –
(i) the Branch union has exhausted all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with 
the Bank, at which stage the Branch union shall notify the Bank in writing of its intention to 
refer such matter to the Parent union (the Ceylon Bank employees' union).
(ii) the Parent union (the Ceylon Bank employees' union) has intervened in the matter and has 
exhausted all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the Bank and/or the 
employers' Federation of Ceylon.
(iii) In the event of there being no settlement at the level of conciliation aforesaid, the Parent union 
has to give notice in writing of not less than fourteen (14) days of the fact that there has been 
no satisfactory settlement of the dispute and that it wishes to resort to trade union action. such 
notice shall be given to the Bank, the employers' Federation of Ceylon and to the Commissioner 
of Labour.
31.    Union Check-off Facilities
during the continuance in force of this Agreement and provided the union has not less than forty (40) 
percent memebership among the employees covered by this Agreement the Bank shall continue to grant 
check-off, provided, however, that the Bank reserves the right to stop, suspend, or discontinue such facility 
in the event of the union violating any of the provisions of this Collective Agreement in relation to the Bank.
32.    Implementation and Interpretation of this Agreement
(i) Where either the Union or the Bank are dissatisfied with the manner in which the Collective Agreement 
is being implemented or where there is a complaint regarding the adverse effects of computer technology 
change such matter shall be dealt with by a Monitoring Committe set up by the Bank consisting of two 
representatives from the Bank and two representatives from the union. the Bank or the union may 
request that a matter be placed before the Monitoring Committee by communication addressed to the 
employers' Federation of Ceylon setting out the cause of complaint.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
25A
(ii)  Any dispute over the interpretation of the Agreement shall be settled by voluntary arbitration under 
section 3 of the Industrial disputes Act, 1950 as amended.
33.    Consequences of Termination of Agreement
On  the termination of this Agreement all terms, conditions, benefits, facilities and concessions enjoyed 
by the union and/or its members shall ipso facto cease.
34.    Definitions
In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires. the following words and phrases shall have the 
following meanings:
Bank Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC.
employee An employee covered and bound by this Agreement.
employer Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC.
Cost of Living Allowance the payment in lieu of the Cost of Living Allowance stipulated in the manner set 
out in Clause 7 (a) hereof.
Cost of Living Index the Cost of Living Index published monthly by the department of Census and 
statistics.
Parent union the Ceylon Bank employees' union.
Branch union the Branch union of the Ceylon Bank employees' union at Commercial Bank 
of Ceylon Plc.
dispute A dispute shall have the same meaning as an Industrial dispute in the Industrial 
disputes Act and shall include any dispute arising between the Bank and the 
Branch union of the Ceylon Bank employees' union at such respective Bank.
salary Shall mean the consolidated salary as defined in Clause 5.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.
In Witness hereof parties have set their hands herento on this 21st day of January 2021.
For and on behalf of For and on behalf of
Commercial Bank of Ceylon Bank
Ceylon Plc employees' union  
------------------------------------ ------------------------------------
 s. Renganathan, C. s. dissanayake,
 Managing director President 

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
26A
------------------------------------ ------------------------------------
 s. C. u. Manatunge, s. M. A. R. senanayake,
 Chief Operating Officer General Secretary
Witnesses
------------------------------------ ------------------------------------
   u. I. s. tillakawardana, K. A. s. A. Nandula,
 deputy General Manager, President,
 Human Resource Management. Ceylon Bank employees'  union,
  Commercial Bank Branch.
------------------------------------ ------------------------------------
  Vajira ellepola, H. R. M. s. B. Ratnayaka,
 Acting director General, secretary,
 employees'  Federation of Ceylon, Ceylon Bank employees'  union,
 Commercial Bank Branch. Commercial Bank Branch.
FIRST SChEDuLE
tyPIsts & ALLIed GRAdes
Grade I Grade II Grade III Grade IV Grade V
1 49890.00 58,235.00 64,665.00 71,095.00 85,540.00
2 50,350.00 58,770.00 65,355.00 71,905.00 86,530.00
3 50,810.00 59,305.00 66,045.00 72,715.00 87,520.00
4 51,270.00 59,840.00 66,735.00 73,525.00 88,510.00
5 51,730.00 60,375.00 67,425.00 74,335.00 89,500.00
6 52.190.00 60,910.00 68,115.00 75,145.00 90,490.00
7 52,650.00 61,445.00 68,805.00 75,955.00 91,480.00
8 53,110.00 61,980.00 69,495.00 76,765.00 92,470.00
9 53,570.00 62,515.00 70,185.00 77,575.00 92,460.00
10 54,030.00 63,050.00 70,875.00 78,385.00 94,450.00
11 54,490.00 63,585.00 71,565.00 79,195.00 95,440.00
12 54,950.00 64,120.00 72,255.00 80,005.00 96,430.00
13 55,410.00 64,655.00 72,945.00 80,815.00 97,420.00
14 55,870.00 65,190.00 73,635.00 81,625.00 98,410.00
15 56,330.00 65,725.00 74,325.00 82,435.00 99,400.00
16 56,790.00 66,260.00 75,015.00 83,245.00 100,390.00
17 57,250.00 66,795.00 75,705.00 84,055.00 101,380.00

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
27A
18 57,710.00 67,330.00 76,395.00 84,865.00 102,370.00
19 58,170.00 67,865.00 77,085.00 85,675.00 103,360.00
20 58,630.00 68,400.00 77,775.00 86,485.00 104,350.00
21 59,090.00 68,935.00 78,465.00 87,295.00 105,340.00
22 59,550.00 69,470.00 79,155.00 88,105.00 106,330.00
23 60,010.00 70,005.00 79,845.00 88,915.00 107,320.00
24 60,470.00 70,540.00 80,535.00 89,725.00 108,310.00
25 60,930.00 71,075.00 81,225.00 90,535.00 109,300.00
26 61,390.00 71,610.00 81,915.00 91,345.00 110,290.00
27 61,850.00 72,145.00 82,605.00 92,155.00 111,280.00
28 62,310.00 72,680.00 83,295.00 92,965.00 112,270.00
29 62,770.00 73,215.00 83,985.00 93,775.00 113,260.00
30 63,230.00 *460 73,750.00 *535 84,675.00 *690 94,585.00 *810 114,250.00 *990
FIRST SChEDuLE
dRIVeRs
Grade I Grade II Grade III Grade IV Grade V
1 45,495.00 55,670.00 60,775.00 72,325.00 70,865.00
2 45,910.00 56,180.00 61,405.00 73,015.00 71,675.00
3 46,325.00 56,690.00 62,035.00 73,705.00 72,485.00
4 46,740.00 57,200.00 62,665.00 74,395.00 73,295.00
5 47,155.00 57,710.00 63,295.00 75,085.00 74,105.00
6 47,570.00 58,220.00 63,925.00 75,775.00 74,915.00
7 47,985.00 58,730.00 64,555.00 76,465.00 75,725.00
8 48,400.00 59,240.00 65,185.00 77,155.00 76,535.00
9 48,815.00 59,750.00 65,815.00 77,845.00 77,345.00
10 49,230.00 60,260.00 66,445.00 78,535.00 78,155.00
11 49,645.00 60,770.00 67,075.00 79,225.00 78,965.00
12 50,060.00 61,280.00 67,705.00 79,915.00 79,775.00
13 50,475.00 61,790.00 68,335.00 80,605.00 80,585.00
14 50,890.00 62,300.00 68,965.00 81,295.00 81,395.00
15 51,305.00 62,810.00 69,595.00 81,985.00 82,205.00
16 51,720.00 63,320.00 70,225.00 82,675.00 83,015.00
17 52,135.00 63,830.00 70,855.00 83,365.00 83,825.00
18 52,550.00 64,340.00 71,485.00 84,055.00 84,635.00
19 52,965.00 64,850.00 72,115.00 84,745.00 85,445.00
20 53,380.00 65,360.00 72,745.00 85,435.00 86,255.00
21 53,795.00 65,870.00 73,375.00 86,125.00 87,065.00
22 54,210.00 66,380.00 74,005.00 86,815.00 87,875.00
23 54,625.00 66,890.00 74,635.00 87,505.00 88,685.00
24 55,040.00 67,400.00 75,265.00 88,195.00 89,495.00

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
28A
25 55,455.00 67,910.00 75,895.00 88,885.00 90,305.00
26 55,870.00 68,420.00 76,525.00 89,575.00 91,115.00
27 56,285.00 68,930.00 77,155.00 90,265.00 91925.00
28 56,700.00 69,440.00 77,785.00 90,955.00 92,735.00
29 57,115.00 69,950.00 78,415.00 91,645.00 93,545.00
30 57,530.00 *415 70,460.00 *510 79,045.00 *630 92,335.00 *690 94,355.00 *810
 
FIRST SChEDuLE
       OFFICe AssIstANt A/ LIFt OPeRAtORs
Grade I Grade II Grade III Grade IV Grade V
1 44,190.00 69,150.00 70,990.00 74,610.00 78,920.00
2 44,590.00 69,630.00 71,530.00 75,300.00 79,730.00
3 44,990.00 70,110.00 72,160.00 75,990.00 80,540.00
4 45,390.00 70,590.00 72,790.00 76,680.00 81,350.00
5 45,790.00 71,070.00 73,420.00 77,370.00 82,160.00
6 46,190.00 71,550.00 74,050.00 78,060.00 82,970.00
7 46,590.00 72,030.00 74,680.00 78,750.00 83,780.00
8 46,990.00 72,510.00 75,310.00 79,440.00 84,590.00
9 47,390.00 72,990.00 75,940.00 80,130.00 85,400.00
10 47,790.00 73,470.00 76,570.00 80,820.00 86,210.00
11 48,190.00 73,950.00 77,200.00 81,510.00 87,020.00
12 48,590.00 74,430.00 77,830.00 82,200.00 87,830.00
13 48,990.00 74,910.00 78,460.00 82,890.00 88,640.00
14 49,390.00 75,390.00 79,090.00 83,580.00 89,450.00
15 49,790.00 75,870.00 79,720.00 84,270.00 90,260.00
16 50,190.00 76,350.00 80,350.00 84,960.00 91,070.00
17 50,590.00 76,830.00 80,980.00 85,650.00 91,880.00
18 50,990.00 77,310.00 81,610.00 86,340.00 92,690.00
19 51,390.00 77,790.00 82,240.00 87,030.00 93,500.00
20 51,790.00 78,270.00 82,870.00 87,720.00 94,310.00
21 52,190.00 78,750.00 83,500.00 88,410.00 95,120.00
22 52,590.00 79,230.00 84,130.00 89,100.00 95,930.00
23 52,990.00 79,710.00 84,760.00 89,790.00 96,740.00
24 53,390.00 80,190.00 85,390.00 90,480.00 97,550.00
25 53,790.00 80,670.00 86,020.00 91,170.00 98,360.00
26 54,190.00 81,150.00 86,650.00 91,860.00 99,170.00
27 54,590.00 81,630.00 87,280.00 92,550.00 99,980.00
28 54,990.00 82,110.00 87,910.00 93,240.00 100,790.00
29 55,390.00 82,590.00 88,540.00 93,930.00 101,600.00
30 55,790.00 *400 83,070.00 *480 89,170.00 *630 94,620.00 *690 102,410.00 *810

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
29A
FIRST SChEDuLE
       OFFICe AssIstANt B/ sCOOteR RIdeRs 
Grade I Grade II Grade III Grade IV Grade V
1 43,895.00 65,730.00 67,775.00 70,715.00 74,905.00
2 44,295.00 66,160.00 68,405.00 71,405.00 75,715.00
3 44,695.00 66,590.00 69,035.00 72,095.00 76,525.00
4 45,095.00 67,020.00 69,665.00 72,785.00 77,335.00
5 45,495.00 67,450.00 70,295.00 73,475.00 78,145.00
6 45,895.00 67,880.00 70,925.00 74,165.00 78,955.00
7 46,295.00 68,310.00 71,555.00 74,855.00 79,765.00
8 46,695.00 68,740.00 72,185.00 75,545.00 80,575.00
9 47,095.00 69,170.00 72,815.00 76,235.00 81,385.00
10 47,495.00 69,600.00 73,445.00 76,925.00 82,195.00
11 47,895.00 70,030.00 74,075.00 77,615.00 83,005.00
12 48,295.00 70,460.00 74,705.00 78,305.00 83,815.00
13 48,695.00 70,890.00 75,335.00 78,995.00 84,625.00
14 49,095.00 71,320.00 75,965.00 79,685.00 85,435.00
15 49,495.00 71,750.00 76,595.00 80,375.00 86,245.00
16 49,895.00 72,180.00 77,225.00 81,065.00 87,055.00
17 50,295.00 72,610.00 77,855.00 81,755.00 87,865.00
18 50,695.00 73,040.00 78,485.00 82,445.00 88,675.00
19 51,095.00 73,470.00 79,115.00 83,135.00 89,485.00
20 51,495.00 73,900.00 79,745.00 83,825.00 90,295.00
21 51,895.00 74,330.00 80,375.00 84,515.00 91,105.00
22 52,295.00 74,760.00 81,005.00 85,205.00 91,915.00
23 52,695.00 75,190.00 81,635.00 85,895.00 92,725.00
24 53,095.00 75,620.00 82,265.00 86,585.00 93,535.00
25 53,495.00 76,050.00 82,895.00 87,275.00 94,345.00
26 53,895.00 76,480.00 83,525.00 87,965.00 95,155.00
27 54,295.00 76,910.00 84,155.00 88,655.00 95,965.00
28 54,695.00 77,340.00 84,785.00 89,345.00 96,775.00
29 55,095.00 77,770.00 85,415.00 90,035.00 97,585.00
30 55,495.00 *400 78,200.00 *430 86,045.00 *630 90,725.00 *690 98,395.00 *810

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
30A
SECOND SChEDuLE
 
1.  The benefits of the Scheme will accure to the Employee but will cover those persons specified in Clause 
18 of the Agreement. It shall be the duly of the employee to enroll members of his family immediately on 
becoming eligible to be included in this scheme.
 No reimbursements will be made in respect of members of the family who have not been enrolled.
2.  (a)  Reimbursements will only be effected on hospitalization involving at least 1 night's stay in a  hospital. 
Provided however, where the employee is aged 30 years of above, expenses he/she incurs on account of 
full body medical checkups, without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum 
of Rs. 25,000/- per annum in addition to this entitlement.
 (b)  Where the employee is aged 30 years or above, expenses his/her spouse incurs on account of full 
body medical checkups, without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursaed up to a maximum of  
Rs. 25,000/- per annum. under the reimbursement of hospitalization expenditure.
3.  The Bank  must be notified promptly, and in any event not later than on the First business day following 
admission to hospital.
4. the Bank will be entitled to take out insurance policies covering reimbursements under this scheme and the 
employee  shall be required to make declaration (including completion and signing of Insurance Proposal 
Forms) and submit documentation required by Bank/Insurers in proper form and timely manner to enable to 
the Bank to obtain reimbursement from the Insurance Companies. the Bank will advise by internal circulars 
issued from time to time the documentary requirement and time limit within which documents should be 
submitted. Where an Employee does not comply, he will not be entitled to benefits under this scheme.
5.  Employees shall up hold the principle of uberima fides when making declarations and submitting claims 
under this scheme and any deviation would disqualify the Employee from receiving any benefit under this 
scheme. In addition, the employee will be liable to disciplinary action in accordance with provisions set out 
in this Agreement.
6.  (a)  the Bank will circulate by internal circulars published from time to time a list of Hospitals/Nursing 
Homes, expenses incurred at which, will be eligible for reimbursement under the scheme. Additions 
and/or deletions to this list will also be made by internal circulars.
 (b)  If for reasons of geographical location of any  employee belives he may not be in a position to use any 
of the Institutions given in the list, he may apply to the Bank in writing within 30 days of publication 
of the list of amendments to the list referred to in the preceding sub paragraph, requesting special 
dispensation to use a named Institution or Institutions and the Bank shall consider such applications 
on a case by case basis and where deemed appropriate will grant such special dispensation provided 
however, that the decision of the Bank on this matter shall be final and conclusive.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
31A
Exclusions 
The scheme shall not cover benefits/ expenses;
 (a)  Occasioned by or happening through
 i. the participation by employee or other eligible family members in war, Invasion, Act of Foreign 
enemy, Hostilities (whether war be declared or not), Civil war, Rebellion, Revolution, Insurrection, 
mutiny or usurped power, military, popular rising or while serving as a member of any defense, 
Police, security Force, Home Guard, etc.
 ii. Attemped suicide, Alcoholism or any self inflicted injury/sickness.
 iii. Normal child birth or pregnancy subject to clause 18 (iv). Provided that if an employee has been 
employed for a continues period of 12 months, the Bank will pay the Medical expenses incurred 
for any abnormality of Maternity which is in excess of what a normal child birth would have cost. 
the responsibility for furnishing the Bank with the required proof of the extra cost involved, such 
as a letter from the doctor/ Hospital, will be on the employee who makes the claim.
 iv. earthquake, volcanic eruption or tidal Wave.
 (b)  Incurred whilst traveling in an Air Craft other than as a ticket holding passenger in a fully licensed 
standard type of civil air craft operated by a recongnized Air Line on a regular route or in a fully licensed 
standard type of civil air craft having two or more engines operated by a recongnized Air Charter 
Company or owned by a Commercial or Industrial firm and piloted by a Pilot holding a Commercial 
Pilot's License.
 (c) In respect of eye test or dental treatment.
 (d) Arising from any physical defect or infirmity which existed prior to confirmation in the Bank's service.
7.  The benefits under this scheme shall not be cumulative and the words 'any one year' in Clause 18 (iii) of the 
Agreement shall be deemed to be the period 1st Janurary to 31st december. In the case of employees who 
join during the course of a year the overall limit and the event limit up to the period ending the next 31st 
december will be prorated to the number of full months of service up to 31st december.
8.  In respect of claims for hospitalization which span the end of any year, reimbursement will be made out of 
the entitlement of either or both years as applicable.
ThIRD SChEDuLE
 
the parties agree to the following conditions in relation to the introduction of new Computer Based Banking 
technology by the Bank covered and bounded by this Agreement.

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
32A
1.  Wherever practical the Bank will endeavor to ensure that jobs are designed to include a mix of Vdu/Non 
Vdu tasks which seek to provide variation in visual and in mental demands upon the operator.
2. the work load of operators of Vdus will be regularly revived by the Management for the purpose of 
ensuring proper safety and effectiveness of the operations.
3.  the Bank agress to provide Vdu Operator with adequate training within the parameters of their Job 
description to ensure the safety and helath of employees.
4.  (a)   In selecting Vdus the Bank will attempt to obtain the equipment which will ensure the following.
 i. screens that give clear stable images.
 ii. Proper sittng of Key Boards so as to ensure the reduction of strees and improve maneurverability.
 iii. equipment which is quiet in operation so the level of noise is kept to a reasonable limit.
 (b)  the Bank will undertake proper servicing and maintenance to ensure optimum functioning of the 
Vdus.
(b)   the Bank will pay attention to the proper positioning of screens. key boards and provide facilities for placing 
documents and ancillary equipment in a manner to faciliate the work of employees.
(c)   the Bank will endeavor to provide lighting facility to minimize visual fatigue in the operation of Vdus.
(d)   employees whose main or primary function, as decided by the Management of the Bank, is the operation 
of a Vdu, will be permitted to visit at the cost of the Bank an Optician selected by the Bank to have his 
eyesight examined prior to his commencing employment on a Vdu. In the event of an adverse report being 
obtained from the Optician, the employee should inform the Bank immediately.
(e)   Where an employee whose main or primary function, as decided by the Management of the Bank, is the 
operation of a VDU and he is already using spectacles when he is call upon the operate a VDU for the first 
time he will be permitted, at the expense of the Bank to be examined by an Optician nominated by the Bank 
for the purpose of obtaining and opinion as to whether any modification is necessary to his lenses. The cost 
of such examination and modification to the lenses if necessary will be borne by the Bank on the followin 
basis;
 (a)  the cost of the examinatin will be met by the Bank outside the limits prescribed by the  Medical 
scheme herein.
 (b) The cost of modification of the lenses will be met within the Medical Scheme, but if such cost should 
exceed the limits prescribed by the scheme, the Bank will bear such additional cost as well. 

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
33A
PRINted At tHe dePARtMeNt OF GOVeRNMeNt PRINtING,  sRI LANKA.
5.  Accepting the fact that continuous work at a terminal by a data entry Operator causes a  certain amount 
of strain, the Bank is agreeable to a reasonable pause in entering information at or about the end of each 
period of 2 hours as long as there is no disruption of the smooth flow of work and so long as such pause 
does not exceed 10 minitues.
6.  the provisions of this Agreement will apply to employees whose main or primary function, as decided 
by the Management of the Bank, is operating a Vdu. Provided however, the union will be entitled to 
make representations as to whether the main or primary function is the operation of a Vdu subject to 
there being no industrial dispute raised on this issue.
7.  t he Bank agrees that they will not seek to retrench employees who become redundant solely and exclusively 
in consequence of the introduction of new Computer Based Banking technology. Instead, the Bank may 
avail itself of any one or more of the following options.
 (a)  the aforementioned excess employees may be transferrd to other sections/departments to perform 
work which is within their skill and capacity without reduction in salary and allowances which are in 
force at such time in relation to such employees. this option refers to a transfer other than within the 
scope of employment, which the Bank would under normal circumstances be entitled to effect.
 (b) the Bank may, on a transfer within the scope of (a) above, re-train an employee if the employer 
considers it necesarry.
 (c) the Bank will entitled to negotiate with employees who are redundant for the reasons conteplated in 
this Agreement, with a view to achieving a cessation of employment on terms mutually agreed upon 
and this will not amount to retrenchment within the meaning of this schedule.
8.  For the purpose of this Agreement, retrenchment will mean an involuntary termination of the employees 
made redundant conseqent upon the introduction of new Computer Based Banking technology. It will 
not include a situation where such redundant employees voluntarily leave the service of the employer 
on terms mutually agreed upon.
eOG  3  -1025