

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2012
771
771
wxl 1"756 - 2012 wfm%a,a 27 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'04'27
No. 1,756 – FRIDAY , APRIL  27, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 774
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 775
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 04th May, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 20th  April,
2012.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,755 of 20.04.2012 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2012
772
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2012
773
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2012
774
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
GALLE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 28th May , 2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
30th March, 2012.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Galle Galle Four Gravets Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Thalapitiya area in Galle District General, District Secretariat,
Division Galle
Galle Galle Four Gravets Post of Muslim Mariage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandewatta area in Galle District General, District Secretariat,
Division Galle
Galle Galle Four Gravets Post of Additional Muslim Mariage District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Registrar of Thalapitiya area in Galle General, District Secretariat,
District Division Galle
04–509

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2012
775
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
AUDITOR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment for the
Posts of Superintendents of Audit Class II Grade II of the
Sri Lanka Audit Service for the Officers in the Auditor
General's Department – 2012
APPLICA TIONS are invited from offricers in Auditor General's
Department possessing the qualifications set out in this notice for
appointment for the posts of Superintendents of Audit Class II
Grade II of the Sri Lanka Audit Service.
02. Date of examination.– This examination will be conducted by
the Commissioner General of Examinations in Colombo, by the end
of July, 2012.
03. Closing date of applications.– Applications will be closed on
28th May, 2012.
04. Method of selection.– The Examination, Consists of a written
examination. The viva voce will be held only for check of qualifications.
The viva voce test will be held on a date to be communicated to
the applicants after the written examination mentioned in paragraph
2 above. Out of the applicants who score a minimum of 40 marks in
each of the three papers at the written examination, candidates
equivalent to the number of vacancies only will be eligible to be
called for this test.
05. Method of application for the examination :
(a) Application forms can be obtained from the Administrative
Officer, Auditor General's Department up to 10th May,
2012 on a written request made to him. Each candidate
will be issued only one application form.
(b) The fee for this examination is Rs. 500. This fee should be
paid at the nearest District or Divisional Secretariat on or
before the closing date of applications with instructions
that it should be creidted to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of
the Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt
obtained from the District or Divisional Secretariat Office
should be affixed to the application. Fees paid for this
examination will not be refunded fully or partly for any
reason whatsoever. (It would be useful to keep a
photocopy of the receipt).
(c) Completed applications should be either sent by registered
post to reach the Auditor General, Auditor General's
Department, No. 306/72, Polduwa Road, Battaramulla
on or before 28th May, 2012 or handed over personally
at the Counter of the Postal Branch of the Auditor General's
Department on or before that date and a receipt obtained.
Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
Applications should not be addressed personally to the
Auditor General or to any other officer in the Department.
The name of the examination viz - "Limited Competitive
Examination for Recruitment for the Posts of
Superintendents of Audit Class II Grade II of the Sri
Lanka Audit Service - 2012" should be clearly mentioned
on the top-left hand corner of the envelope containing the
application.
(d) No allegation that any application or any document relating
to such application has been lost or delayed in the post
will be considered.
(e) All applicants will be acknowledged. Any candidate who
does not receive an acknowledgement within 2 weeks of
the closing date of applications should be immediately
informed to the Auditor General.
06. Admission to the Examination :
(a) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
Admission Cards to all candidates whose applications
have been accepted. Candidate presenting themselves for
the examination must surrender their Admission Cards
with attested signature to the Supervisor of the
Examination Centre. A candidate who fails to produce his
Admission card will not be permitted to sit for the
examination. A set of rules to be adhered by all candidates
is published in this Gazette.
(b) If a candidate does not receive his Admission Card at least
7 days before the date of the examination, he should
immediately notify the Organization and Foreign
Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla with following details :
(i) Full name :–––––––––.
(ii) Address :–––––––––.
(iii) Number and date of the receipt for the registration
of application :–––––––––.
(iv) A photocopy of the cash receipt certified by the
District/Divisional Secretariat where the examination
fees were paid :–––––––––.
(v) A photocopy of the application :–––––––––.
07. The number of persons to be appointed and the effective date
of the appointment will be determined by the Public Service
Commission. The Public Service Commission reserves the rights to
refrain from filling any or all the vacancies.
08. Eligibility.– Only the following officers with 10 years of
continuous service in the Auditor General's Department as at 28th
May, 2012, will be eligible to sit for this examination :
(a) Officers in Grade I and Grade II of the Audit Examiners'
Service ; or
(b) Officers in the Supra Grade of the Public Management
Assistants' Service or in Class I or in Class II drawing a
consolidated salary of not less than Rs. 15,610 per month.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2012
776
09. Identity Cards.– Candidates will be required to prove their
identity to the satisfaction of the Supervisor for each subject they
appear. For this purpose the following documents only will be
accepted :
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of the
Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid passport.
The candidature of any candidate who fails to submit any
of the above documents is liable to be cancelled on the
discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
10. Penalty for furnishing false information .– If a candidate is
found to be ineligible according to the regulations for this examination,
his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to during or
after this examination.
11. There will be three question papers. viz :
(i) Accountancy ;
(ii) Auditing ;
(iii) Business Mathematics.
12. Medium of Examination.– The written examination will be
held in Sinhala, Tamil and English. Candidates should sit for the
examination in the Language in which the passed the qualifying
examination. If not, he should sit for the examination in the Official
Language.
Note.– Candidates will not be allowed to change the medium
of the examination after the closing date of applications.
13. Examination Procedure.– The examination procedure will be
as follows :
(a) Written Examination :
(1) Accountancy.– One question paper of 03 hours duration
on the following topics (All questions should be
answered) :
* Accounting Theory,
* Manufacturing Accounts, Trading Accounts, Profit
and Loss, Accounts and Balance Sheets,
* Suspense Accounts and Rectification of Erros,
* Single Entry and Incomplete Records,
* Total Accounts (Control Accounts),
* Stock Valuation,
* Receipts and payments Accounts, Income and
Expenditure Accounts, cash and Accrual Basis,
* Captial and Revenue Expenses,
* Depreciation, Amortization and Depletion,
* Partnership Accounting,
* Provisions and Reserves,
* Joint Ventures,
* Bills of Exchange,
* Limited Companies,
* Accounts of Public Corporations,
* Consignment Accounts,
* Goods of sale or return,
* Container Accounts,
* Branch Accounts,
* Departmental Accounts,
* Hire Purchase Accounts,
* Investment Accounts,
* Royalty Accounts.
(2) Auditing.– 3 hours paper on the following topics :
(All questions should be answered) :
* General Theory and Principles of Auditing.
* Types of Audit.– Internal and External, Statutory and
Private, Balance Sheet Audit, Interim and FInal Audit,
State Audit and Audit of Private Enterprises ;
* Role of the external auditor and of the internal
auditor .– Their relationship, personal qualities,
independence ;
* Internal control and check .– Review, recording,
preliminary evaluation, corroboration and final
evaluation of the system of internal control, Analytical
auditing, organization charts and flow charts, auditing
in depth ;
* Vouching.– Classification of capital and revenue
income and expenditure, sampling methods and
techniques, prevention and detection of fraud and
error ;
* Audit of sales. – Debtors and receipts procedure,
purchases on credit and payments procedure, payroll
procedure, cost and inventory records, books of
accounts and interim and final accounts ;
* Vertification of assets and liablilities. – Ownership
existence and valuation of fixed assets, investments,
stocks, debtors, cash, liabilities, contingent liabilities ;
* Limited companies, statutory books of limited
companies, powers and duties of directors, divisible
profits ;
* Government Corporations. – Appointment,
remuneration and removal of auditors, action before
acceptance of new audits, powers, duties and
responsibility of the auditor ;
* Organization and control of internal and external
audits, audit programmes, internal control
questionnaries and charts ;
* Audit of mechanized systems ;

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2012
777
* Internal audit, efficiency audit, management audit,
operational audit, systems audit, value for money
audit ;
* Investigations.
(3) Business Mathematics.– 3 hours paper on the following
topics. (All questions should be answered).
* Series .– Arithmetic, geometric, binominal and
exponential, compound interest and discounting
formula and their derivation ;
* Equations.– Linear and quadratic equations and their
graphical equivalents, derivatives and their
application to the solution of maximum and minimum
points ;
* Data .– Collection and tabulation of data,
approximation and limits of accuracy, market research
and collection of data.
* Presentation.– Use of statistics in the presentation
of report, analysis of statistical information and its
interpretation in non-technical language, graphs and
diagrams including logarithmic graphs ;
Each paper carries 100 marks consisting 300 marks for whole
examination. Out of the candidates who have obtained the highest
total marks with a minimum of 40 marks is each paper at the written
examination, candidates equivalent to the number of vacancies only
will be called for the viva voce test.
(b) Viva Voce Test.– This will be confined to scrutinizing the
basic qualifications, certificates and service records.
14. Conditions of Engagement :
(i) Selected candidates will be appointed to the Post of
Superintendents of Audit, Class II Grade II of the Sri
Lanka Audit Service on the terms and conditions set out
in the Minute of the Sri Lanka Audit Service and they
will be subjected to any amendment to be made to that
Minute in future.
(ii) The post is permanent and pensionable.
(iii) Appointments will in the first instance, be on an acting
capacity for a period of one year. Confirmation at the
end of the acting period will depend on the officers,
satisfying the Public Service Commission, that their work
and official conduct during the acting period have been
satisfactory. Failure to secure confirmation at the expiry
of the acting period will result in their reversion to the
substantive post. It will be done in terms of the provisions
stipulated in the Chapter VIII of the Public Service
Commission Procedure Rules.
(iv) Successful candidates should subscribe to the condition
that they will conform to the provisions of Chapter IV
of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any laws, rules and minutes that now
exist or may be introduced in the future for giving effect
to the Language Policy of the Government.
15. Salary Scale.– The initial salary for this post is Rs. 22,935
per month rising by 16 annual increments of Rs. 645 to Rs. 33,255
per month. (First Efficiency Bar before Rs. 24,870 and the Second
Efficiency Bar before Rs. 26,805).
16. Candidates' attention is invited to the General Conditions
applicable to appointments to posts in the Public Service published
at the beginning of Part I Section (IIA) of the Gazette. The final
decision regarding the examination will be made by the Commissioner
General of Examinations.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
H. A. S. S
AMARAWEERA,
Auditor General.
Auditor General's Department,
No. 306/72, Polduwa Road,
Battaramulla,
10th April, 2012.
04–711
––––––––––––––
AUDITOR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment of
Superintendents of Audit Class II Grade II of the Sri
Lanka Audit Service- 2012
EXAMINATION for selection of  suitable candidates for the Posts
of Superintendent of Audit, Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Audit
Service, will be held by the Commissioner General of Examinations
and applications are invited from candidates possessing the
qualifications mentioned in the notification.
01. Date of Examination.– This Examination will be held in July
2012 in Colombo by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
The Public Service Commission reserves the right to postpone or
cancel this examination.
02. Number of persons to be Appointed and the Effective Date.–
It will be determined by the Public Service Commission. The
Commission reserves the right to refrain from filling any or all of
the vacancies.
03. Conditions of Service :-
(i) The selected candidates will be appointed to Class II
Grade II of the Sri Lanka Audit Service on the general
conditions of governing appointments in the Public
Services state at the begining of paragraph (II) (a) of part
I of the Ordinary Gazette, conditions set out in the Minute

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2012
778
of the Sri Lanka Audit Service published int he Gazette
Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka No. 588/5 of 11th December, 1989 and subjected
to amendments made or to be made hereafter.
(ii) This post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions
will have to be made to the widow's and Orphans' Pension
Fund.
(iii) The successful candidates will be appointed to this service
on three years probation period with effect from the date
of appointment. If an officer who is already confirmed in
a permannent post in the Public Service/Provincial Public
Service is selected, the new appointment will be on an
acting capacity for a period of one year.
(iv) Confirmation at the end of their probationary/acting
period of successful candidates competing in this
Examination under paragraphs 06(b) (1) to (8) of this
notification will inter alia depent on :-
(a) Satisfactory work and official conduct;
(b) Passing the fist Efficiency Bar Examination before
the expiry of probationary/acting period.
(v) Successful candidates who sat this examination under
Paragraphs 06(b) (9) to (12) of this notification will not
be required to pass the First Efficiency Bar Examination
for confirmation. Their confirmation will depent on their
satisfactory work and official conduct.
(vi) Faliure to secure confirmation at the end of probationary/
acting period will result in :
(a) Reversion to their substantive posts in the case of
persons already holding post in the Public Service/
Provicial Public Service; and
(b) Termination of their services in the case of others.
04. Structure and Salary Scale .– Class II Grade II
(Superintendents of Audit) - Salary Scale per month.– Rs. 22,935-
16x645-Rs.33,255(Efficiency Bar before Rs. 24,870 and Rs. 26,805)
05. Health and Discipline.– A candidate must satisfy the Public
Service Commission that he is duly qualified in respect of health
and that he has an excellent moral charcter. He must be of sound
constitution, possessed of good sight and physically qualified for
service in any part of the Island, When a cnadidate who is already
not in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service is selected he/she
will be called upon to undergo a Medical Examination.
06. Eligibility.– All the Candidates must -
(a) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka;
(b) Have any of the following qualifications :
(1) Degree of a recognized University with
Accountancy as a subject :
(2) Associate membership of the Institute of Chartered
Secretaries;
(3) Associate membership of the Institure of Corporate
Secrataries;
(4) B. Sc. Degree in Public Finance and Taxation or a
similar field;
(5) Obtained the Intermediate of Licentiate Certificate
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri
Lanka or qualification at similar level of any one of
the following professional Accounts bodies :
(a) The Institute of Chartered Accountants of
England and Wales ;
(b) The Chartered Institute of Management
Accountants of the United Kingdom;
(c) The Chartered Association of Certified
Accountants of the United Kingdom or Similar
Professional body.
(6) Associate Mambership of the Institute of Cost and
Industrial Accountants of the United Kingdom.
(7) Higher National Diploma in Accountancy of the
Ministry of Higher Education.
(8) Diploma in commerce of the Ceylon Technical
College.
(9) An officer who holds a post in a Departmental
Grade or a Combined Service carrying a salary scale
with an initial salary of which is not less than
Rs. 13,640 per month, and who possesses 10 years
of continuous Public/Provicial Public Service on
the closing date for applications and who is
confirmed in his service.
(10) An Officer who holds a degree of a recognized
University and who is confirmed in his post and
possesses 05 years service in Public/Provincial
Public Service or in a Public Enterprise on the closing
date for applications.
(11) An Officer who has passed the Intermediate
Examination of the Higher National Diploma in
Accountancy of the Ministry  of Higher Education
and who possesses 05 years Service in Public/
Provincial Public Service or in a Public Enterprise
on the closing date for applications and who is
confirmed in his post.
(12) An officer who holds a post in a Public Enterprise
carrying a salary scale with the initial salary of
which is not less than Rs. 14,980 per month and
who possesses 10 years of continuous service on
the closing date for applications and who is
confirmed in his service.
(c) Not less than 22 years and not more than 45
years of age on 28 May 2012. This age limit will

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2012
779
not be applicable to persons already in Public/
Provincial Public Service.
Note : A candidate will be deemed to have qualified only
if.
(i) he had successfully completed in every respect
the examination or the examinations required for
the purpose by 28 May 2012; and
(ii) the Official certificate in support of qualifications
or and Official document acceptable by the Public
Service Commission in lieu of such a cerificate is
produced at the interview.
07. Examination Fees.– The fee for this examination is Rs. 500.
This fee should be paid  at the nearest Divisional or District
Secretariat before the closing date for applications with instructions
that it should be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of
Commissioner General of  Examinations. The receipt obtained from
the Secretariat should be affixed to the application form. Fees paid
for this examination will not be refunded fully or partly for any
reason whatsoever. Keep a photocopy of the receipt for subsequent
inquiries.
08. Method  of  Application :
(a) The application should be prepared in accordance with
the specimen form annexed to this notification, using
both sides of relevant papers A4 in size as from No. 01
to 05 on the first page and the remainder on other pages
and should be filled by the candidate himself.
(b) The application should be in the language in which the
candidate is eligible to sit for the examination. (See
paragraph 12).
(c) The applications for the Open Competitive Examination
must be sent by registered post to reach the Commissioner
General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign
Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or before 28th May, 2012.
The words "Open Competitive Examination,
Superintendents of Audit - 2012" should be clearly
mentioned on the top left hand  corner of the envelope
containing the application. Applications received after
that date will not be entertained. Applicants who are
already in Public Service/Provincial Public Service/State
Corporations should forward their applications through
their Heads of Departments/Heads of Institutions.
(d) Any application which is not completed in every respect
is liable to be rejected. No allegation that an application
has been lost or delayed in the Post will be considered.
(e) An applicant will not be acknowledged. A notice will be
published in the newspapares as soon as Admission
Cards are issued to Applicants. A candidate who does
not receive his admission card at least seven days before
the date of the examination should immediately notify
the Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, Pelewatta, Battaramulla
with the following particulars. (Fax No. 011-2784232)
(i) Name of the Examination :-
(ii) Full Name of the Candidate :-
(iii) Address :-
(iv) Date of posting of the Application, Registered
Number and the Post Office :-
(f) The Signature of the Applicant should be attested by an
authorized person. Applicants who are already in Public
Service/M Provincial Public Service should get their
signatures attested by their Heads of Departments or by
an officer authorized to do so on his behalf. Other
applicants should get their signatures attested by anyone
of the following; i.e. a Justice of Peace, a Commissioner
of Oaths, an Attorney at Law, a Notary Public, a Principal
of a Government School or a Director Managed School,
a public Officer drawing a initial consolidated salary of
Rs. 19,755 or over per month, a Chief Incumbent or
Higher Priest of a Buddhist Temple, a member of the
clergy of any other religion or in charge of a place  of
worship or holding a position of importance in such
places of Worship, a Commissioned Officer in Three
Armed Forces, an Officer holding a Gazette Post in the
Police Service.
09. Admission to the Examination :-
(a) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
an Admission Card to every person whose application
has been received. A candidate presenting himself for the
examination must produce his signature attested
Admission Card to the Supervisor of the Examination
Centre. A candidate who fails to produce his admission
card, will not be premitted to sit for the examination.
(b) A candidate must sit for the examination at the
Examination Hall assigned to him. Every candidate
should submit the Admission Card to the Supervisor on
the first day presenting himself for the examination. A
set of rules to be followed by all candidates is published
in this Gazette.
(c) The issue of an Admission Card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that he or she has the requisite
qualification to sit for the examination.
(d) All candidates are bound to abide by the rules laid down
by the Commissioner General of Examinations. A
candidate who violates any of those rules is liable to
punishment at the discretion of the Commissioner General
of Examination.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2012
780
10. Identification of the Candidate.– A candidate will be required
to prove his identity at the Examination Hall to the satisfaction of
the Supervisor for each subject he appears. For this purpose only
the following documents will be accepted.
(a) The National Identity Card Issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons.
(b) A passport issued by the Department of Immigration
and Emigration not more than three years before the date
of the examination.
11. Furnishing False Information :- If a candidate is found to be
ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior
to, during or after the examination. If any of the particulars furnished
by candidate is found to be false within his knowledge or if he has
will fully supperssed a material fact, he will be liable to dismissal
from the Public Service.
12. Scheme of Examination :-
(i) Medium of Examination :-
(a) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and
English Languages ;
(b) A candidate should sit for the examination in the
Language in which he passed the qualifying
examination or in the Official Language;
(c) A candidate who has passed subjects at the qualifying
examination in two or more languages should sit for
the examination in the language in which he passed
the majority of subjects at such examination or in the
Official Language;
(d) A candidate with a Special Degree Who has passed
the principal subject in one language and subsidiary
subject in another language should sit for the
examination in which he passed the principal subject
or in the Official Language.
Note :
(i) The term “Qualifying Examination” in (b) and (c)
above refers to any of the examinations referred to in
paragraph 06;
(ii) A candidate must sit for all the papers of examination
in one and the same language;
(iii) A candidate will not be permitted to change the
medium of the examination given in his application.
13. Method of Testing :-
(a) An examination consist of six of written papers of three
hours each in the following subjects and an interview :
(1) Accountancy ;
(2) Auditing;
(3) Business Mathematics;
(4) Cost Accountancy;
(5) Economics and Public Finance;
(6) General Commercial knowledge and commercial
Arithmetic;
or
(7) Government Financial Regulations and Financial
Procedure.
Note : Syllabus is at Appendix “A”.
(b) Out of the candidates who have obtained the highest
total marks with a minimum of 40 per cent of the
marks in each paper and a minimum of more than 45
percent of the aggregate marks, candidates equivalent
to the number of existing vacancies only will be eligible
to be called for the interview. The interview will be
confined to scrutinizing the qualifications, certificates
of all candidates and service records in the case of
candidates already in Public/Provincial Public Service.
14. Method of Selection for Appointment. - The candidates who
have scored the highest marks in the written examination will be
selected on the basis of vacancies. In the event of more than one
candidate have scored similar marks, the final decision for selection
will be made by the Public Service Commission. The decision either
for filling/not filling all a part of the vacancies will be made by the
Public Service Commission.
15. Any matter does not covered by the above regulations will
be decided by the Public Service Commission.
By Order of the Public Service Commission.
H. A. S. Samaraweera,
Auditor General.
Auditor General's Department,
No. 306/72, Polduwa Road,
Battaramulla.
10th April, 2012.
APPENDIX “A”
D
ETAILS OF THE OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT OF
APPOINTMENTS  OF CLASS II GRADE II OF THE SRI LANKA AUDIT
SERVICE
PARAGRAPH NO. 13
Applications should sit for six written papers of three hours
each in the following Subjects.
Scheme of Examination - Scheme of Examination is as follows :
Written Examination
Paper (1) - Accountancy 100
Paper (2) - Auditing 100
Paper (3) - Business Mathematics 100
Paper (4)  - Cost Accountancy 100
Paper (5) - Economics and Public Finance 100

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2012
781
Paper (6) - General Commercial Knowledge and
Commercial Arithmetic ; or 100
Paper (7) - Government Financial Regulations and
Financial Procedure 100
Note.- Candidates who qualify to sit for the examination
under paragraph 06 (b) (1) to (8) of this notification
should answer question paper No. 6 in addition to question
papers No. (1) to (5) whilst candidates who qualify to sit
for the examination under paragraph 06 (b) (9) to (12)
should answer paper No. 7 in addition to question paper
No. (1) to (5).
Syllabus for the Written Examination :
(1) Accountancy.– One question paper of 03 hours on the
following topics (All questions should be answered) :
100 marks
* Accounting Theory,
* Manufacturing Accounts, Trading Accounts, Profit
and Loss, Accounts and Balance Sheets,
* Suspense Accounts and Rectification of Errors,
* Single Entry and Incomplete Records,
* Total Accounts,
* Stock Valuation,
* Receipts and payments Accounts, Income and
Expenditure Accounts, cash and Accrual Basis,
* Captial and Revenue Expenses,
* Depreciation, Amortization and Depletion,
* Partnership Accounting,
* Provisions and Reserves,
* Joint V entures,
* Bills of Exchange,
* Limited Companies,
* Accounts of Public Corporations,
* Consignment Accounts,
* Goods on sale or return,
* Container Accounts,
* Branch Accounts,
* Departmental Accounts,
* Hire Purchase Accounts,
* Investment Accounts,
* Royalty Accounts.
(2) Auditing.– 3 hours paper on the following topics :
(All questions should be answered) :  100 marks
* General Theory and Principles of Auditing.
* Types of Audit.– Internal and External, Statutory and
Private, Balance Sheet Audit, Interim and Final Audit,
State Audit and Audit of Private Enterprises ;
* Role of the external auditor and of the internal
auditor .– Their relationship, personal qualities,
independence ;
* Internal control and check .– Review, recording,
preliminary evaluation, of the system of internal
control, Ascertainment and final evaluation Analytical
auditing, organization charts and flow charts, auditing
in depth ;
* Vouching.– Classification of capital and revenue
income and expenditure, sampling methods and
techniques, prevention and detection of fraud and
error ;
* Audit of sales. – Debtors and receipts procedure,
purchases on credit and payments procedure, payroll
procedure, cost and inventory records, books of
accounts and interim and final accounts ;
* Verification of assets and liablilities. – Ownership
existence and valuation of fixed assets, investments,
stocks, debtors, cash, liabilities, contingent liabilities ;
* Limited companies, statutory books of limited
companies, powers and duties of directors, divisible
profits ;
* Government Corporations. – Appointment,
remuneration and removal of auditors, action before
acceptance of new audits, powers, duties and
responsibility of the auditor ;
* Organization and control of internal and external
audits, audit programmes, internal control
questionnaires and charts ;
* Audit of mechanized systems ;
* Internal audit, efficiency audit, management audit,
operational audit, systems audit, value for money
audit ;
* Investigations.
(3) Business Mathematics.– 3 hours paper on the following
topics. (All questions should be answered).  100 marks
* Series .– Arithmetic, geometric, binomial and
exponential, compound interest and discounting
formula and their derivation ;
* Equations.– Linear and quadratic equations and their
graphical equivalents, derivatives and their
application to the solution of maximum and minimum
points ;
* Data .– Collection and tabulation of data,
approximation and limits of accuracy, market research
and collection of data.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2012
782
* Presentation.– Use of statistics in the presentation
of report, analysis of statistical information and its
interpretation in non-technical language, graphs and
diagrams including logarithmic graphs.
(4) Cost Accountancy.– 3 hours paper on the following
topics. (All questions should be answered).  100 marks
Materials :
* Purchasing .– Materials specifications, materials
requisitioning, ordering and follow up procedures.
* Receipt of goods .– Methods of checking receipts,
quantity, quality and specifications.
* Materials classifications.– Classification and coding
of raw materials, work-in progress, finished goods,
packing materials, maintenance materials, patterns
and tools and other indirect materials.
* Stores.– Layout, methods of stores for raw materials,
work-in-progress, finished goods and packing
materials, stores for tools, patterns, maintenance and
other indirect materials centralized and decentralized
stores and sub-stores, Internal transport and
mechanical handling equipment.
* Store.– Keeping : recording of receipts, issues, stocks,
transfers and returns to store, orders, allocations and
free balance, returns to suppliers, treatment of scrap
and waste materials.
* Stock control.– Maximum, minimum and re-order
levels, order quantities, control of perishable goods,
prevention of waste, review of slow moving, dormant
and obsolete stocks.
* Stock.– taking  : Organizing of stock-taking,
preparation of forms, control of inventory records,
recording of physical stock, pricing, extending and
summarizing inventory records, perpetual inventory
and continuous stock-taking, investigation and
treatment of differences.
* Materials costing.– Methods of pricing materials and
calculating costs. Allocation to cost centres and cost
units, materials summaries, stock ledgers, materials
costs, cost per unit of output, cost of defective
materials.
Labour :
* Work records.– Recording of time, output and types
of records, defective work, lost time.
* Remuneration.– Methods of remuneration, incentives
and payment by results, work study standards, rate
fixing.
* Job evaluation.– Merit rating, allowance for defective
work.
Extra Allowances :
* Payroll procedures.– Calculating and verifying gross
earnings, voluntary and statutory deductions, payroll
methods and routines, payment procedures, payroll
summaries.
* Labour costing .– Classification, allocation and
apportionments to cost centres and cost units,
calculations of cost rates.
* Labour cost controls.– Units of output, measures of
efficiency of direct labour, level of bonus earnings,
overtime and lost time, ratio of indirect to direct
labour, cost of defective work.
Overheads :
* General.– Nature and type of overheads, research,
development, design, purchasing, production, staff,
selling, distribution, administration, finance, fixed,
semi-variable and variable overheads.
* Collection .– Classification and coding, effect of
circumstances on treatment of items, records of
original entry, overheads accounting entries and
summaries.
* Allocation and apportionment.– Methods of allocation
and apportionment to cost centres and cost units.
* Absorption.– Methods of absorbing overhead in the
cost unit, effect of level of output on absorption of
overhead expenses, under and over absorption, causes
and treatment.
* Services.– Measurement of use of services including
maintenance, instrumentation, recording of cost and
charging to cost centres.
* Plant and Machinery.– Records, depreciation, usage
and efficiency.
Costing Techniques :
* Types of costing. – Methods and procedures for
costing by job (including batch and contract) and
compilation of product cost, methods and procedures
for costing by process (including operating and
compilation of product costs).
* Joint products and by - products .– Distinction and
accounting treatment, alternative methods of
recording, alternative bases of apportionment,
collection of costs and values used, limitations and
practicability.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2012
783
* Waste.– Costing of waste, spoilage, defective work,
rectification idle time and idle facilities.
* Functions.– Costing of research, development, design
and preproduction, purchasing, staff, production,
marketing administration and financial cost.
Budgetary Control and Standard Costing :
* Budgets and Standards. – Master and subsidiary
budgets, budget manual, standard costs rates, fixed
and flexible budgets, standard product costs.
* Collection and analysis. – Actual expenditure and
output for comparison with standards and budgets.
* Analysis of variance.– Analysis of total variances of
intermediate level of all elements of costs.
Marginal Costing :
* Techniques and applications at intermediate level.
Presentation and use :
* Operating Statements for process and Departments.–
Methods of presentation, oral, narrative, tabular,
graphical and other visual means, continuous and ad
hoc records and presentation.
(5) Economics and Public Finance.– 3 hours paper on the
following topics. (All questions should be answered).
100 marks
* The theory of value.– Demand and supply, the price
mechanism, perfect and imperfect competition,
monopoly, economic rent, labour and wage rates.
* Capital and interest rates, explanation of the queue,
equilibrium theory, social costs and gains outside the
pricing system.
* Production .– The theory of the firm, factors of
production management, application of capital, fixed
and current assets, organization for production and
distribution, location of industry, division of labour
and development of specialized business, factor
endowment and comparative advantages,
nationalization.
* Money, Banking, Credit and Finance.– Functions of
money, types of money, the banking mechanism, the
Central Bank, the Bank of England, the Commercial
Banks, the finance houses, discount houses, hire
purchase, life assurance, provident fund, pension
fund, the capital market.
* Markets.– Local, national and international trade,
tariffs and quotas.
* International Trade. – The theory of international
trade, gold standard and subsequent systems, the
sterling area, the hard currency area, the International
Monetary Fund, the International Bank of
Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) and
International Finance Corporation, International
Development Association, the Asian Development
Bank, G . A. T. T., European Economic Community,
bilateral trade, supplier credit, aid club consortium.
* National Income and Government Intervention. –
National income measurement and statistical data,
role of government, economic growth of the country,
savings and investments, changes in the level of
business activity, unemployment, balance of
payments and stability of the rupee, effects of
inflation and deflation, credit creation and control by
the Central Bank, impact of foreign trade and
international competition, trade payments and
agreements, swing credits, tariff, quotas, import
control, exchange control, other government measures
to regulate the economy.
* The theory of Taxation and Fiscal Policy. – Direct
taxes, indirect taxes, non-tax revenue, subsidies,
provision of economic incentives through the tax
structure, cost of tax administration.
* Sources of Financing Government Budgets.– Taxes
and non-tax revenue, rupee loans, foreign loans, grants
under Colombo plan and U. N. Agencies, other
sources of aid.
(6) General Commercial Knowledge and Commercial
Arithmetic.– 3 hours paper on the following topics.
(All questions should be answered).  100 marks
* Business organization and management, sole traders,
partnerships, joint stock companies, private and
public holding companies, State Corporations, Co-
operative Societies, Local Authorities.
* Negotiable instruments. – Sources of Finance,
permanent capital, working capital, short-term and
long-term borrowing, financial institutions and their
graphical functions.
* Foreign Trade, Commodity Markets.
* Principles of insurance including business insurance,
stocks and shares, simple and compound interest,
averages and means, equations.– linear and quadratic
equations and their graphical presentation.
(7) Government Financial Regulations and Financial
Procedure.– 3 hours paper on the following topics.
(All questions should be answered).  100 marks
* Working knowledge of the Financial Regulation of
Government and financial procedure as they relate

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2012
784
to Revenue and Expenditure, Annual and
Supplementary estimates, Loan Funds, Public Debt,
Establishments, Stores and Tenders, Imprests and
Advances, Financial Sanctions, the Accounts of
Government, functional and economic classifications,
programme and performance budgets and the
functions of the Minister of Finance, the Treasury,
the Planning Ministry, the Secretaries to Ministries,
the Estimates Committee, the Auditor General and
the Public Accounts Committee.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment of
Superintendents of Audit Class II Grade II of the
Sri Lanka Audit Service – 2012
(For office use only)
The medium of Language as per the Paragaraph
No. 12 of the Gazette Notification (No request
for changes in the medium will be entertained)
(Sinhala - 2,  Tamil - 3, English - 4)
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
Please state under which paragraph of the
Gazette Notification you apply :
(i) Paragraph 06(b)(1) to (08)
(ii) Paragraphs 06(b)(9) to (12)
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
01. Name :
1.1 Last name with initials (in Block Capital letters) :–––––.
Eg.– SILV A, A. B.
1.2 Name in full (In block capital letters) :––––––––––.
1.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
1.4 National Identity Card No. :
02. Permanent address : (In block capital letters) :
2.1 Permanent address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
2.2 Telephone No. :––––––––––.
2.3 Official address (in block capital letters) :––––––––––.
(Admission card to be sent to)
2.4 Official address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
(Officers in Public Service/Provincial Public Service/
Corporation Service should mention his official address
and any subsequent change should be notified immediately)
03. Sex : (Female - 1, Male - 0)
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
04. Race :
(Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2, Indian Tamil - 3,
Muslim - 4, Others - 5)
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
05. 5.1 Marital status : (Married - 2, Single - 1)
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
5.2 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
5.3 Age on 28th May, 2012 :
Years :                         Months :               Days :
06. Candidates who sit for this examination under paragraphs
06(b)(1) to (8) of the Gazette Notification should give the
following details :
State the qualification obtained to be eligible to sit for this
examination :
(1) (2) (3)
Qualification Dates of obtaining Institution which the
obtained such qualification qualification obtained
07. The candidates who sit for this examination under paragraphs
06(b)(9) to (12) of the Gazette Notification state the following
details :
(i) The service you belongs to/Departmental Grade :––––.
(ii) The date on which you have confirmed in the Service/
Departmental Grade :––––––––.
Year :––––––––, Month :––––––––, Date :––––––––.
(iii) Total permanent and continuous service as at 28th May,
2012 :
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :–––––––.
(iv) Present Class/Grade :––––––––.
(v) Initial consolidated monthly salary as at 28th May, 2012
:––––––––.
(vi) If a Graduate of a recognized University, state the
following details :––––––––.
(a) Year of the Degree :––––––––.
(b) University :––––––––.
(c) Subjects :––––––––.
(d) Class :––––––––.
(e) Upper/Lower :––––––––.
(f) The date of results released :––––––––.
(vii) Date on which you have passed the Intermediate
Examination of the Higher National Diploma Course in
Accountancy of the Ministry of Higher Education :
––––––––.
08. The cash receipt should be affixed on the application firmly :
(i) Number :––––––––.
(ii) Date :––––––––.
(iii) Place of payment :––––––––.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2012
785
(iv) Amount paid (Rupees) :––––––––.
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt for subsequent inquiries)
09. Certificate by candidate :
9:1 I declare that the information given in this form is true to
the best of my knowledge and belief and that I have affixed
Receipt No. ......... dated ............. being payment of the
Examination Fee. I also agree to be bound by the rules
governing the Commissioner General of Examinations and
any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature
prior to, during or after the examination if it is found that
I am ineligible according to the regulations of the
examination.
9:2 This part should be filled only by candidates who possess
qualifications under 06(b)(9) to (12).
I declare that during the preceding five years as at 28th May,
2012 have earned all the increments (excluding those conditional to
passing service or departmental examinations) and (excluding warning)
that I have not been subjected to any form of disciplinary punishment.
––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :––––––––.
10. Attestation.– (Only for the candidates who possess qualifications
under 06(b)(9) to (12)) Certificate of the Head of Department
(For the candidates of the Open Competitive Examination under
paragraph 9:2 above and who are already in the Public Service/
Provincial Public Service or serving in Statutory Institutions).
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
I hereby certify that .............. the applicant who forward this
application is serving in this office since ............. and his/her
work and conduct is continually satisfactory and all the
particulars mentioned in Section 07 and 9:2 above which I
personally examined are correct as per the records available in
this office and further he/she signed in my presence on ........2012.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––.
Full name of the Attestor :––––––––.
Designation :––––––––.
Address :––––––––.
(Rubber Seal)
11. Attestation (Only for the candidates who possess qualifications
under 6(b)(01) to (08)) Refer to paragraph 08(f) of the Gazette
Notification.
I certify that the applicant .................. is, personally known to
me and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor and Seal.
Date :––––––––.
Full name of the Attestor :––––––––.
Designation :––––––––.
Address :––––––––.
04–710