

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2015
1483
1483
wxl 1"925 - 2015 cQ,s ui 24 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'07'24
No. 1,925 – FRIDAY , JULY 24, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1486
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1490
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 14th August, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 30th July,
2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B.—  Part I:III of the Gazette No. 1,924 of  17.07.2015 was not published.
Note.—  Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 12, 2015.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2015
1484
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2015
1485
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2015
1486
PUBLIC   SERVICES   COMMISSION
Recruitment on Open Competitive Basis to the Grade I Posts of the Executive Category viz. Port State Controller
(Engineering); Port State Controller  (Deck); State Vessel Surveyor; State Vessel Surveyor (Deck); Examiner
(Engineering); Examiner (Deck) in  the Directorate of Merchant Shipping of the
Ministry of Ports and Shipping
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka who possess qualifications specified in this notification to fill the vacancies in
the above posts in the Directorate of Merchant Shipping of the Ministry of Ports and Shipping. The number of vacancies is indicated below :
Post Number of   V acancies
01. Port State Controller (Engineering) 02
02. Port State Controller (Deck) 01
03. State Vessel Surveyor 01
04. State V essel Surveyor (Deck) 01
05. Examiner (Engineering) 02
06. Examiner (Deck) 01
01. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitment will be made depending on the number of existing vacancies on the order of merit of the
total marks obtained at the structured interview conducted by a Panel of Structured Interviewers approved by the Public Service Commission,
by applicants from and among those who fulfill the qualifications specified in this notification. The structured interview will  be held in
accordance with the marking scheme (indicated under Item No. 06 of this Notification) as approved by the Public Service Commission.
02. Required Qualifications :
(i) Educational Qualifications, Experience and Other Qualifications :–
Post Educational Qualifications Experience and Other Qualifications
* Port State Controller (Engineering) Having obtained the Chief Engineer Proficiency Minimum of 02 years experience as a
Certificate issued by a State Shipping Administration Chief Engineer in a seafaring
* State Vessel Surveyor Agency of Sri Lanka, United Kingdom, Australia, merchant ship which has m ain engine
Canada, China, India, Pakistan, New Zealand, with a capacity of more than
* Examiner (Engineering) Ma laysia, Singapore, South Africa or Ireland or of 3,000 kilowatts.
any other country which has entered into bilateral
agreements with Sri Lanka regarding the acceptance
of the relevant certificates.
* Port State Controller (Deck) Having obtained the Skipper Proficiency Certificate Minimum of 02 years experience as a
issued by a State Shipping Administration Agency Skipper in a seafaring merchant ship
* State Vessel Surveyor (Deck) of Sri Lanka, United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, of which the unloaded weight is more
China, India, Pakistan, New Zealand, Malaysia, than 3,000 tons.
Singapore, South Africa or Ireland or of any other
* Examiner (Deck) country which has entered into bilateral agreements
with Sri Lanka regarding the acceptance of the
relevant certificates
(ii) Physical Fitness.– Every candidate should be physically and mentally fit to perform duties of the post and to serve at
any part of Sri Lanka.
Posts – Vacant

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2015
1487
(iii) Other Qualifications :
* Applicants should be Sri Lanka citizens ;
* Applicants should be of excellent character ;
* Applicants should have fulfilled all required qualifications for the recruitment to the post in every aspect on or
before the closing date of applications.
03. Conditions of engagement and service :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. You should contribute to the Widows'/Widowers' and Orphans' Pension
Scheme.
(ii) The appointment will be subject to a probation period of three (03) years. You should pass the First Efficiency Bar before
the expiry of 05 years from the recruitment to Grade I of the post as stipulated in the Scheme of Recruitment.
(iii) You should obtain the required proficiency in the other official language other than official language you joined the service
within 05 years from joining the service as per the Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014 and those who joined the
service in a medium of language which is not an official language should acquire the prescribed proficiency in the official
language within the probation period.
(iv) This appointment shall be subject to the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, the Establishment Code of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations of the Government and to other Departmental
Rules.
04. Age limit.– Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 45 years of age.
This age limit does not apply to those who are already in the Public Service.
05. Salary Scale.– This post carries the salary scale of Rs. 22,935/= -10x645 -8x790 - 17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555/= and will be placed
at the 20th salary step. (SL-1-2006 of the Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 dated 2006-04-25). In addition a professi onal
allowance of Rs. 60,000/= and official vehicle facilities will be entitled to the post.
06. The structural interview will be based on the following marking scheme :
Headings under which marks will be awarded Maximum Marks
Port State Controller (Engineering); Port State Controller (Deck); State V essel Surveyor; State Vessel
Surveyor (Deck); Examiner (Engineering); Examiner (Deck)
01. Additional Educational Qualifications : 30
(a) A Postgraduate Degree in the fields of Engineering, Science, Commerce, Management, Transport and
Procurement Management or Shipping from a University recognized by the University Grant
Commission
(30 marks)
(b) A Postgraduate Diploma in the aforesaid fields
(20 marks)
(c) Degree in the aforesaid fields :
First Class degree (18 marks)
Second Class Upper degree (15 marks)
Second Class Lower degree (12 marks)
(Marks will be awarded for the highest qualification only)
02. Professional Qualifications : 10
(a) For a Diploma certificate on successful completion of a course of one year duration (only for
qualifications for which no marks awarded under Additional Education Qualifications)
(10 marks)
(b) For a certificate on successful completion of a course of six months duration (only for qualifications
for which no marks awarded under Additional Educational Qualifications)
(05 marks)
in the field relevant to the post from an Institution recognized by the Government.
03. Additional Experience : 30
(a) For the experience supersedes the minimum period of experience referred to under qualifications
for recruitment (05 marks for each year for a maximum of 05 years)
(30 marks)

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2015
1488
Headings under which marks will be awarded Maximum Marks
04. Contributions to the field : 10
(Publications and innovations)
(10 marks)
05. Computer Literacy : 15
(a) Having offered Computer/Information Technology as a subject of the/a degree
(15 marks)
(b) Having successfully followed a Diploma/Certificate course for one year or more in Computer
Literacy at a Government recognized Institute
(12 marks)
(c) Having successfully followed a Diploma/Certificate course for six months or more in Computer
Literacy at a Government recognized institute
(10 marks)
(d) Any other Diploma/Certificate obtained from Government recognized Institute for Computer
Literacy
(08 marks)
(Marks will be awarded for the highest qualification only)
06. Skills demonstrated at the interview. (05 marks) 05 –––
Total Marks 100
07. Identity of the Candidate :
(i) Applicants who have submitted duly perfected applications only will be called for the Structural Interview.
(ii) The originals of all the certificates and duly certified copies thereof should be produced at the interview.
(iii) Following identity cards will be accepted for the purpose of establishing your identity at the interview :
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of Registration of Persons ;
(b) Valid Passport.
08. Method of Application :
(i) Applications should be sent under registered cover to reach the Director General of Merchant Shipping, Directorate of
Merchant Shipping, No. 43/89, 1st Floor, Bristle Building, York Street, Colombo 01, on or before 24.08.2015. Applications
received after the closing date will be rejected.
(ii) Specimen of the application to be submitted appears at the end of this Notification. Applicants should prepare their own
Applications using A4 size sheets including Sections 01 to 07 on the first page and Sections 08 to 12 on the second page
and Sections 13 to 15 on the third page and the application should be filled in their own hand writing.
(iii) The words "Application for the Post of Director (Engineering)/Director (Shipping)" should be written on the top left
hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
(iv) Signature of candidate should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/Justice of the Peace/Commissioner of
Oaths/Attorney-at-Law/Notary Public, Commissioned Officer of the Armed Forces or an Officer holding a permanent
post in the Government drawing a monthly consolidated salary of Rs. 22,935.
(v) Applications of those who are in the Public or Provincial Public Service should be forwarded through the respective Head
of the Department.
(vi) Applications which do not comply with the specimen appended herewith will be rejected and no complaints regarding
lost of applications or delays will not be entertained.
09. If any information furnished by you in this application is found to be false or inaccurate before recruitment, you will be liable
to disqualify for selection and if such revelation is made after the recruitment, you will be liable to dismissal subject to relevant course of
action.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2015
1489
10. Public Service Commission reserves the right to fill or not to
fill the vacancies.
By Order of the Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Ports and Shipping.
Ministry of Ports and Shipping,
No. 19,  Chaitya Road,
Colombo 01,
On this 24th day of July, 2015.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
(For Office use only)
APPLICATION FOR THE POSTS OF PORT STATE CONTROLLER
(ENGINEERING); PORT STATE CONTROLLER  (DECK); STATE VESSEL
SURVEYOR; STATE VESSEL SURVEYOR (DECK); EXAMINER
(ENGINEERING); EXAMINER (DECK); (GRADE I OF THE EXECUTIVE
CATEGORY) IN  THE DIRECTORATE OF MERCHANT SHIPPING OF THE
MINISTRY OF PORTS AND SHIPPING
01. Name of the Applicant :
Name with initials at the end :–––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
Full Name (In English block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
Full Name (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
02. Address and Telephone No. :–––––––––––––.
(c) Official Address :–––––––––––––.
Telephone No. :–––––––––––––.
(d) Private Address :–––––––––––––.
Telephone No. :–––––––––––––.
Mobile Telephone No. :–––––––––––––.
03. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––  Month :–––––––––  Date :–––––––––.
04. Age as at the closing date of Applications :
Years :–––––––––  Months :–––––––––– Days :–––––––––.
05. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––––.
06. Sex :–––––––––––––.
07. Civil Status :
Married/Unmarried/Widowed :–––––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications and Additional Qualifications :
Qualification Year Subject Grade Name of Re-
obtained Stream Institution marks
Qualification
09. Professional Qualifications :
Qualification Y ear obtained Subject Grade Name of
Qualification Stream Institution
10. Particulars of Experience :
Institution Post Functions of the Period of
served Post in brief Service
11. Contributions to the field  :––––––––––––.
(Publications and innovations)
12. Proficiency in Computer Literacy :
(a) Degree :–––––––––––––.
(b) Diploma :–––––––––––––.
(c) Certificate Course :–––––––––––––.
13. Have you been convicted for any offence by a Court ? :–––––.
I do hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this
application is true and accurate. I am aware that if any information
furnished by me in this application is found to be false or inaccurate
before I am selected, I am liable to disqualify for selection and I will
be subject to relevant course of action if such revelation is made after
the recruitment.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
14. Attestation of the signature of the Candidate :
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................. is
personally known to me and placed his/her signature in my presence
on .............................
–––––––––––––––––,
Name :–––––––––––––. Signature of Certifying Officer.
Occupation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
15. Attestation of the Head of the Department/Institution :
(This is applicable only for those who are already in the Public
Service)
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................ who is
working in this Ministry/Department/Institution, is presently
working in the post of .............................. and his/her work and
conduct are satisfactory, no disciplinary action is pending or
contemplated against him/her. In the case of his/her being selected for
the post he/she can/cannot be released from the service.
––––––––––––––––––,
Signature and Official stamp of the
Head of Department.
Date :–––––––––––––.
07–1135

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2015
1490
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry of Lands
LIMITED EXAMINATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT OF
THE POSTS OF DEPARTMENTAL ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
(DISTRICT LAND USE), GRADE III EXECUTIVE SERVICE
CATEGORY OF LAND USE POLICY PLANNING
DEPARTMENT - 2015
APPLICATIONS are called from the officers who are having
following qualifications to fill the vacancies in the posts of Assistant
Director (District Land Use), Grade III Executive Service Category
of this Department as an order given by the Public Service
Commission. The application should be prepared as the specimen
given at the end of this advertisement and filled application should
be sent under registered post to the Director General, Land Use
Policy Planning Department, No. 31, Pathiba Road, Colombo 05, on
or before the date mentioned below. The words "Limited Examination
for the recruitment of the posts of Departmental Assistant Director
(District Land Use), Grade III Executive Service Category - 2015"
should clearly be indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope
in which the application is enclosed. In the application, name of the
examination should be mentioned in English in addition to Sinhala/
Tamil.
(a) Closing Date of the Application.– 21st August, 2015.
Note.– Any complain about the late application or lost of
application in the post will not be considered. Any damage
should be borne by the applicant due to delaying the
application till the closing date.
1. Recruitment Procedure to the Service .– Applicants who are
having the below mentioned qualifications are requested to sit for a
written examination. Those who showed the highest skill at the
examination will call for a structured interview (number of applicants
call for the interview will be as five times as existing vacancies) based
on a list prepared according to the alphabetical order. Suitable
applicants who obtained highest total marks both from the
examination and from the interview will be appointed by Public
Service Commission.
Number of officers to be appointed and the date of appointment
will be decided by Public Service Commission.
2. Salary Scale.– Salary Scale of this post will be based on the
Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006 SL-1-2006 Rs. 22,935 -
10x645 -8x790 -17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (Monthly).
3. Conditions of Service :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions
should be made to Widows' and Orphans' Pensions
(W&OP) Scheme.
(ii) Recruited officers will be subjected to one year probation
period.
(iii) Language proficiency should be obtained within 5 years
from the recruitment according to the PA Circular 01/
2014 and associated Circulars.
(iv) The appointment will be subjected to procedures of the
Public Service Commission. Establishment Code of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Government
Financial Regulations, Departmental Orders or
Regulations.
4. Educational Qualifications.– Special Degree in Geography or
Agriculture or General Degree in Geography obtained from a
University accepted by University Grants Commission.
5. Experience.– Those who have previously worked as in the
posts of Assistant Land Use Planning Officers/Land Use Planning
Assistants (Departmental) and currently working as Land Use
Planning Officers with five years (05) active and satisfactory service
in the Land Use Policy Planning Department.
6. Physical fitness.– Every candidate should be physically and
mentally sound :
(i) To work in the any part of the country ;
(ii) To discharge the duties assigned to the post.
7. Age Limit.– Age limit is not applicable since this post is limited
to the officers of the Government Service.
8. Other Qualifications :
(i) Applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Applicants should have a good character.
(iii) All qualifications requested for the post should be
completed by the closing date of the applications.
9. 9.1 Written Examination :
9.1.1 This examination will be conducted by
Commissioner General of Examinations. The
examination contains the following question papers :
Subject Subject Time Maximum Pass
No. Marks Marks
01 Subject Paper 03 hrs 100 40%
02 Aptitude Test 01 hr 100 40%

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2015
1491
9.1.2 Syllabus :
(a) Subject Paper.– Applicant's knowledge will be
tested on Land Use Planning at different levels
and techniques that can be used for the rational
allocation of land for different uses.
Knowledge on the following fields will be tested :
(1) Identification of Land Use Issues and
preparing methodologies to address these
issues.
(2) Knowledge on land capability classification
and use of this classification to rationally
allocate the lands for agricultural purposes.
(3) Elements of Land Evaluation and knowledge
on Land Suitability Classification.
(4) Knowledge on Land Characteristics and Land
Qualities.
(5) Main factors to be considered in allocating
the lands for various purposes (Housing,
Agriculture, Industries, Forests etc.) and the
mechanism that has been established for the
decision making on land use at Divisional
and District Level.
(6) Knowledge on Land Degradation, Soil
Conservation Measures and basic soil
characters will also be tested.
(7) Knowledge on legislations related to Land
Resource Management of Sri Lanka.
(b) Aptitude Test.– To assess the applicant's capacity
for comprehension, qualification and perception
of time space relations by measuring the
applicant's inferences and responses to problems
presented in verbal, numerical and spatial
contexts.
10. Interview :
10.1.1 Structured Interview :
Number of applicants for the interview will be as five
times as existing vacancies. Applicants those who
obtained the highest marks at the written examination
will be interviewed by a board appointed by Public
Service Commission.
Minimum of 40% marks should be obtained at the
written examination for each paper is required for calling
for the interview. Marks given at the interview will be
as follows :
Testing fields and allocated marks Maximum
Marks
01 Additional Educational Qualifications 20
02 Language Proficiency 15
03 Professional Qualifications 20
04 Qualifications on IT/Computer Science 20
05 Additional Experience 20
06 Skill showed at the interview 05
Total 100
11. Conditions of the Examination :
(i) Examination will be held on Sinhala, Tamil and English
medium. Applicant can be sit for the examination in
any of the three languages. Applicants should be
written their answers using one of the above languages
for all papers. Changing of the medium of language
which appeared in the application will not be allowed.
All applicants have to sit for both papers.
(ii) Examination fee will be Rs. 1,000. The fee should be
paid to any Post Office, credit to vote No. 2003-02-13
of Commissioner General of Examination and affix the
receipt by its margin firmly on the application. It is
useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt.
(iii) The fee will not be refunded or transferable to another
examination due to any reason. Money Orders or
stamps will not be accepted.
(iv) Examination will be held only in Colombo. Date of the
examination will be informed later.
(v) Incomplete applications will be rejected without a
notice.
Note.– Enter to the examination hall will not be
allowed without an admission. Only the attested
admission should be produced to the supervisor
at the Examination. Issuing of an admission is
not an acceptance that the applicant is fulfilled
his/her qualifications for the examination.
(vi) Application should be prepared according to the
specimen given here using a both side of a A4 paper of
22x29cm in size and include number 01 to 07 of the
application on the first page and rest on the next page.
Application should be filled clearly by own hand
writing. Applications which are not accordance with
specimen and incomplete applications will be rejected
without a notice. Applicant must be check whether
the application is accordance with the specimen before
sending.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2015
1492
(vii) Admission will be issued by the Commissioner General
of Examinations to the applicants those who have
sent the correctly filled applications on or before the
closing date. Once the admission has been sent, a
newspaper advertisement will be published by the
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka. Any
applicants who has not received the admission at least
05 days prior to the date of examination should make
an inquiry from the Organization and Foreign
Examination Branch of the Department of
Examinations, as given in the advertisement. At the
inquiry applicant should provide the Name of the
Examination, Full Name of the applicant, NIC number
and address correctly.It is better to send the request
from remote areas by a fax to the number mentioned in
the advertisement, mentioning a fax number which can
be used to send the admission soon. At the inquiry it
is useful to keep with you a copy of the application,
receipt of the payments of examination fee and
registered post receipt to provide necessary
information.
(viii) Commissioner General of Examinations is having
authority to postpone or cancel the examination with
the approval of the Public Service Commission.
(ix) Candidates should follow the rules and regulations of
the examination issued by Commissioner General of
Examinations. Candidates are liable to a punishment
given by Commissioner General of Examinations if
the rules and regulations of the examination are violated.
(x) Identity of the Applicant.– Every applicants must be
prove their identity to the supervisor at the
examination. One of the following documents will be
accepted :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons,
(ii) Valid Passport.
Note :
(a) Any document or copy should not be annexed to
the application.
(b) Applications of the candidates who are not able
to produce necessary documents on request will
not be considered.
Officers who are working in the District Land
Use Planning Offices should send their
applications through Assistant Director (District
Land Use). It is compulsory to attest the signature
of every candidate before the examination.
(xi) Results of the Examination.– Candidates who obtained
required qualifications from written examination will
call for a structured interview as per 10.1.1 of this
Gazette notification. Priority list prepared based on
the total marks of the both examination and interview
will be send to Secretary, Public Service Commission.
Results of the written examination will be sent either
personally to every candidates or published in the
www.results.examsgov.lk web site.
12. Procedures of Public Service Commission, circulars issued
regarding the public service from time to time and recruitment
procedures of executive service category of the Land Use Policy
Planning Department and their amendments are applicable to this
post.
13. Furnishing inaccurate details. – If any of the particulars
furnished by you in the application form is found to be false or
erroneous before the recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled.
If such false or erroneous particulars are revealed after recruitment,
actions will be taken to dismiss from the service according to the
relevant procedures.
14. Final decision will be taken by Public Service Commission
regarding any particulars not mentioned in this Gazette notification.
The Public Service Commission reserves the right to fill or not to fill
or to partly fill the vacancies.
15. When any inapplicable or inconsistency between the Sinhala,
Tamil and English texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
By Order of the Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Lands.
"Mihikatha Madura",
No. 1200/6, Rajamalwatta Lane,
Battaramulla.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
(For office use)
LIMITED EXAMINATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT OF THE POSTS OF
DEPARTMENTAL ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (DISTRICT LAND USE), GRADE III
EXECUTIVE SERVICE CATEGORY OF LAND USE POLICY PLANNING
DEPARTMENT - 2015
Medium :
(Sinhala - 2,  Tamil - 3,  English - 4)
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
1.0 Name :
1.1 Full Name (in block capitals) :––––––––––––.
(E. g.– HERATH  MUDIYANSELAGE  SAMAN
KUMARA  GUNAWARDHANA)

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2015
1493
1.2 Name with initials, with initials at the end (in block
capitals) :––––––––––––.
(E. g.– GUNAWARDANA H. M. S. K.)
1.3 Full Name (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.0 Address, the admission has to be sent (in block capitals) :
2.1 Official Address (in block capitals) :––––––––––––.
2.2 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
3.0 National Identity Card Number :
4.0 Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(write the relevant number inside the box)
5.0 Marital Status :
Married - 1
Unmarried - 2
(write the relevant number inside the box)
6.0 6.1 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
6.2 Age as at 21.08.2015 :
Years : Months : Days :
7.0 Date of the first appointment :––––––––––––.
7.1 Designation :––––––––––––.
Class/Grade :––––––––––––.
8.0 Language proficiency :––––––––––––.
9.0 District in which currently working :––––––––––––.
10.0 Highest educational qualifications (Post Graduate/Degree/
Diploma) :––––––––––––.
(Indicate subjects and the passing dates)
11.0 Description of the receipt of the exam fee :
11.1 Post Office in which the payment has been made :
––––––––––––.
11.2 Receipt No. and Date :––––––––––––.
11.3 Date of payment :
Affix the receipt firmly here by a margin
I hereby certify that the above particulars furnished by me are
true and correct. I am aware that if any particulars contained here are
found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified if detected
before the selection or to be dismissed if detected after selection
without any compensation. Further, I abide to the rules and
regulations of the examination imposed by the Commissioner General
of Examinations.
––––––––––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
Particulars furnished in the application by the officer are true and
correct and he/she has paid the relevant examination fee and affixed
the receipt.
Since He/She has/has not obtained required qualification, the
application is recommended/not recommended.
–––––––––––––––––,
Director General.
(Signature and Stamp)
Date :––––––––––––.
07–1203
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.