

<!-- page 1 -->

59 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2007
59
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... —
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 61
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 9th February, 2007, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 26th January, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1 ,483 _ 2007 ïÀ´˙ÉåÖ  02 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .02.02
No. 1,483 – FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 02, 2007
N.B.— Part  IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,482 of 26.01.2007 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2007
60
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) Y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

61 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2007
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.
SRI  LANKA  POLICE
Open Competitive Examination for Selection of Assistant
Superintendents of Police - 2007
IN this Notice “Commission” means the National Police Commission.
01.Examination :
1.1 A competitive examination will be held in Colombo for
selection of Assistant Superintendents of Police. The date
of Examination will be notified later.
1.2 The post is permanent and contributory pension scheme
shall apply.
1.3 Number of vancancies to be filled and effective date of
appointment will be determined by the National Police
Commission.
1.4 The Commission may decide not to fill the vacancies in the
public interest and may either postpone or cancel the
examination.
02. Eligibility :
2.1 A candidate should —
(a) be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) be not be less than 22 years and not more than 30 years of
age on the closing date of applications ;
(c) have obtained a degree from a recognized University ;
(d) be of excellent moral character ;
(e) be unmarried ;
(f) be of sound constitution and physically fit for service in
any part of the island ;
(g) be of 6/6 and 6/12 minimum eye sight and normal colour
vision, without wearing spectacles or contact lenses ;
(h) be of a minimum height of 5 feet and 6 inches for male
candidates and 5 feet and 4 inches for female candidates.
Note (1) :The police officers  who possess a degree from a
recognized University and who are not more than 35
years of age as at closing date of the applications may
also apply to sit this examination as external candidates
if they have satisfied other qualifications. Such
applications should be forwarded through the Head of
Department. Married police officers also can apply.
Note (2) : The National Police Commission reserves the right to
enlist the applicants who are half inch below the physical
requirement ; provided they are outstanding sportsmen/
sportswomen who have represented the country in or
out of Sri Lanka, or have performed creditably well in
sports meets and competitions in Sri Lanka at National
Level and satisfy other requirements.
03. Salary Scale :- According to Salary Scale of SL - 1-2006 of Public
Administration Circular No. 06/2006 dated 25.04.2006.
Monthly Salary Scale :
Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - 8 x 790 - 17 x 1,050 - Rs.53,555.
(Efficiency Bar Examination before Rs.24,870)
04. Methodology of Selection.- Selection methodology is as follows :
4.1 Preliminary Interview
Of the applications received those who have satisfied the
basic requirements will be called for the preliminary interview
at which the following will be examined.
a. Physical requirement - height and chest (male only) ;
b. Checking of Original Certificates.
4.2 Endurance Test
Those who qualify at the Preliminary Interview will be
subjected to an Endurance Test.
This test will be held at a place determined by the IGP under
the supervision of Director/Recruiting. Before they are
subjected to this test, they will be subjected to a  medical
examination by a Medical Officer of the Polic Hospital to
test whether the applicant is fit to undergo the test.
The methodology of the Endurance Test is to run 1,000m
within 3 minutes and 54 seconds for males and within 5
minutes and 24 seconds for females.
Note : Candidates in service will not be required to face this test as
they have already been subjected to this test.
4.3 Written Examination.- Only those who have qualified at the
preliminary interview and endurance test will be called for
the written examination. The written examination is
conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations
and will consist of the following question papers. Duration
and marks of each paper will  be as follows :
(01) General Intelligence - Duration 1 hour - 100 marks
(02) General Knowledge - Duraton 1 hour - 100 marks
(03) Language Proficiency (Comprehension and  Essay Writing)
- Duration 2 hours - 100 marks.
4.4 Viva Voce Test :
Viva voce test before a Board of Interview approved by the
National Police Commission.
Viva V oce test will carry 100 marks.
Note 1 : Number of candidates called for viva voce test will be five
times the number of existing vacancies. The candidates to be
summoned will be limited to those who have obtained the
highest marks in descending order above the required
minimum aggregate of 40% marks for each subject at the
written examination.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2007
62
Note II :The Marks obtained at the written examination will not be
made  available to the Interview Board.
4.5 Inquiries in to the Background
In order to ascertain the good character and conduct of the
applicant, and his background, a report will be obtained
regarding the applicant and his close relations and
acquaintances.
Supplying incorrect information at the time of recruitment
or a person with bad background may not to be recruited or
his/her enlistment will be cancelled after recruiting.
4.6 Medical Examination
Selected candidates will be required to undergo a medical
examination to check their physical fitness for service as a
police officer in any part of the Island.
4.7 Calling for Training
Only those who are successful at the Medical Examination
will be recruited and called upon to undergo the training.
5. Medium of Examination :
a. The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English;
b. A candidate should sit the examination in the language in
which he passed the qualifying examination or in an Official
Language ;
c. A candidate who passed the subjects at the qualifying
examination in more than one language, should sit the
examination in the language, in which he passed the majority
of subjects at such examination ; or in an Official Language ;
d. A candidate with a Special Degree who has passed the
principal subject in one language and the subsidiary subjects
in another language should sit in the language in which he
passed the principal subject; or in an Official Language.
Note :
i. The term “qualifying examination” in (b) and (c) above
refers to the examination in paragraph 2.1(c) and 2.1
Note 1.
ii. A candidate must sit all the papers of the examination in
one and the same language.
iii. A candidate will not be permitted to change the language
of the examination, indicated in the application.
6.   Syllabus :
i. General Intelligence : - (Duration 1 hour - 100 marks)
To assess the candidate’s capacity of comprehension,
qualification and perception of time space relation by
measuring the candidate’s inferences and responses to
problems presented in verbal, numerical and spatial
context.
ii.General Knowledge - (Duration 1 hour - 100 marks)
To test the candidate’s awarences and understanding of
the social, cultural, educational, scientific, political,
economic and any other features in the National, Regional
and Global environment.
iii.Language Proficiency (Comprehension and Essay
Writing)
(Duration 2 hours - 100 marks)
To test the candidate’s capacity for conceptualization,
critical reasoning and his judgment abilities in the
development, organization and presentation of ideas and
information on a topic/theme chosen by the candidate
from a given set of topics/themes, and the ability to
comprehend a fairly complex passage, a piece of writing
or a memorandum and express the salient ideas thereof
concisely, clearly and accurately in the candidate’s own
words.
07.  Method of Application :
a. The application should be in the form of the specimen
appended to this notification and should be prepared by
the candidate himself on paper of size 8 1/2" x 12" (A4)
using both sides of the paper. It should be specially
noted that the application forms should be so prepared
so that 1 to 4 appear on the first side of the paper and 5
to 8 appear on the other side of the paper.
b. The application should be in the language in which the
candidate intends to sit the examination.
c. The completed application form for the examination
should be sent by Registered Post to reach the Secretary,
National Police Commission, Level 3, Rotunda Tower,
No. 109, Galle Road, Colombo 03, on or before
02.03.2007. The words, “Open Competitive Examination
for Selection of Assistant Superintendents of Police”
should be clearly indicated on the top left-hand corner of
the envelope enclosing the application. Application
received after the closing date will be rejected.
d. Any application, which is not complete in every respect,
will be rejected. No complaint that an application has
been lost or delayed in the post will be entertained.
8. Fee :
8.1.1. The entry fee is Rs. 300.
8.1.2. This fee should be paid to the nearest District/Divisional
Secretariat prior to the closing date of applications with
instructions to credit the same to Revenue Head 4000-20-
03-20-13. The receipt obtained from District/Divisional
Secretariat should be attached to the application. Keeping
a photo copy of the application and the receipt may be
useful.
8.2 This fee is not refundable either in full or in part.
09.  Acknowledgment of Applications :
9.1 Application will not be acknowledged. A notice will be
published in the newspapers as soon as letters calling for

<!-- page 5 -->

63 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2007
preliminary interview and endurance test are issued to
applicants. They are advised to be on the look out for such
a notice.
9.2 The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards to the respective candidates in accordance
with the list of applicants and their applications submitted
to the Examinations Department after the Preliminary
Interview and Endurance Test. The candidates are required
to produce the admission card with their signature attested
to the officer in charge of the Examination Centre. The
Candidates who fail to do so will not be allowed to sit for
the examination.
9.3 Candidates are required to sit the examination in the
Examination Hall allotted to them. No candidate will be
allowed to sit the examination in any other Examination
Hall other than the one allotted to him.
9.4 The candidates who do not receive their admission cards
at least 7 days prior to the date of examination should
inform the Commissioner General of Examinations
immediately. The following information should be
furnished when he is informed.
(1) Name of Examination :------.
(2) Full name of Candidate :------.
(3) Full Address :------.
(4) Post Office, Registration Number and Date of Dispatch
of the application :------.
(5) The place at which money has been paid, Date of such
payments and Receipt Number :------.
9.5 Admission to the Examination does not constitute an
acceptance of eligibility.
10.  Attestation of Signature of Candidates :
10.1 The signature of the candidates in the public service must
be attested by their respective Heads of Departments or
any other officer authorized to do so on their behalf.
10.2 The signature of other applicants should be attested by a
person authorized to do so i. e. a Justice of Peace, a
Commissioner of Oaths, an Attorney-at-Law, a Notary
Public, a Principal of a Government School or a
Commissioned Officer of the Navy, Air Force or Army, or
a permanent Public Officer drawing a  consolidated salary
of Rs.233,580 per annum or more.
11.Identity of Candidates :-
Candidates will be required to prove  their identity in the
examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each
subject they offer.  For this purpose, any of the following
documents will be accepted :
(a) An identity card issued by the Department of the
Registration of Persons ;
(b)  A valid passport.
12. Penalty for furnishing false Information :-
If a candidate is found to be ineligible according to the  regulations
applicable to this examination his candidature is liable to be
cancelled at any stage prior to, during, or after the examination.
If any of the particulars furnished by a candidate are found to
be false or if he had willfully suppressed any material fact he
will be liable for dismissal from the Public Service after
recruitment.
13. Documents :-
Candidates will be required to produce the following original
documents when called upon to do so :-
(a) Certificate of Birth (Certificate issued for the purpose of
use in Schools or Baptismal Certificate will not be accepted).
(b) Educational Certificates.
(c) Not more than four certificates of character including those
from schools. At least one testimonial should be from the
candidate’s Instructor or Professor of Studies.
14. Canvassing :-
Any form of canvassing or attempt to influence the selection
will disqualify such a candidate.
15. Terms of Engagement :-
(i) This post is permanent. Appointees come within the scope
of the Contributory Pension Fund Scheme.
(ii) 8% of monthly earnings should be paid to the Contributory
Pension Fund from the date of enlistment.
(iii)All officers will be required to contribute to Police
Departmental Funds.
16. General Conditions .- Reference is requested to the General
Conditions applicable to appointments to posts in the Public
Service published at the beginning of Part II (A) of the Gazette of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
17. Any matter not provided for in these  regulations will be decided
at the discretion of the National Police Commission.
By order of the National Police Commission,
K. C. L
OGESWARAN ,
Secretary,
National Police Commission.
The National Police Commission,
Level 3, Rotunda Tower,
No. 109, Galle Road,
Colombo 03.
18th January 2007.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2007
64
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
Sri Lanka Police
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR SELECTION
OF ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENTS OF POLICE - 2007
(For Office use)
Medium of Examination
(Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, English - 4)
(Write the relevant number inside the box.)
1.0 Name :—
1.1 Name with initials at the end Mr./Mrs./Miss :———.
(English capital letters, ex ; SILV A, A. B.)
1.2 Name in full :———.
(English Capital letters)
1.3 Name in full :———.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :
Date of issue :
2.0  Address :
2.1 Permanent Address :———.
(In English Capital letters)
2.2 Permanent Address :———.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Official Address : (If any) :———.
(In English Capital letters)
2.4 Address to which the admission card should sent :——.
(English Capital letters)
3.0 3.1 Ethnic Group :
Sinhala 1, Tamil 2, Indian Tamil 3, Muslim 4, Others 5
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
3.2 Female - 1, Male - 0 :
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
3.3 Civil Status : Married -1, Unmarried - 2 :
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
3.4 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : date :
3.5 Age as at 02.03.2007 :
Years : Months : Days :
4.0 (i) Effective date of the Degree :———.
(ii)University/Institute :———.
(iii)Date of Registration and Number :———.
(iv) Internal/External :———.
(v) Degree :———.
(vi) Subjects :———.
(vii)Class :———.
(viii)Upper/Lower :———.
(ix)Index Number :———.
(x) Language of Examination :———.
5.0 Physical Requirements :
Height : feet :———. Inches  :———.
Chest (when expanded):-      Inches :———.
 (Only for male candidates)
6.0 Whether you are already holding a post in the Police Service? If
so, please state the present post and date of enlistment :———
.
7.0 Paste a part of full examination fee receipt securely. :
8. Certificate by Candidate :
I certify that, to the best of knowledge and belief, the information
stated herein  is true and that I have affixed the receipt No. ..............
dated............... being  payment of the entry fee, paid to ................
District/Divisional Secretariat, I also agree to be bound by the rules
and regulations of the examination and any decision that may be
taken to cancel my candidature prior to, during or after examination
if it is found that I am ineligible according to the rules of this
examination.
————,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :———.
9. Attestation of Candidate’s Signature (see Paragraph - 10 of
notification) :
I certify that Mr/Mrs./Miss ......................... (full name) who is
employed/residing ..................... is personally known to me and that
he/she placed his/the signature in my presence on ..............................
—————,
Signature of Attester.
Date :———.
Full Name of Attester :———.
Designation :———.
Address :———.
10. Certificate of the Head of the Department :
I Certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................... who is submitting
this application is an employee of .................... Department/Board/
Corporation and can be released from the service if he/she is selected.
—————,
Head of the Department.
Designation :———.
Date :———.
02-128

<!-- page 7 -->

65 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2007
DEPARTMENT  OF  LABOUR
Competitive of Examination for Recruitment of Labour
Officers - 2006
The Gazette Notification published in Gazette No. 1,473 of
24.11.2006 in respect of the above Examination is amended as
follows :-
The sentence prior to the Note “(2) Salary Scale attached to the
post” in the above Gazette Notification is amended to read :
“In terms of Public Administration Circular 20/2001,
he/she should pass the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination within
3 years from the date of appointment or before reaching the
4th step and the IInd efficiency Bar Examination within 6
years from the date of Appointment or before the 7th step of
the Salary Scale.”
M
AHINDA  M ADIHAHEWA ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Labour Relations and
Foreign Employment.
02-165

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2007
66
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 1995
(Issued every Friday)
1. All notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments
to the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 9.00 a.m. to 4.45 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompa-
nied by Money order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in
payment of Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor
of the Supreme Court.
10. The authorised scale for charges for notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 1995 :–
Rs. c.
One inch or less 51 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof 51 0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette 504 0
Two columns or one page of Gazette 1,008 0
All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.
11. The "Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka" is published every Friday. Day of publication is
subject to alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8, as shown in
schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. * REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 1995
(Govt. Gazette Annual)
Local Foreign
     Rs. c.       Rs. c.
Whole of Part I (3 sections together) 1,612 0 2,098 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 572 0 745 0
Section I 520 0 1,007 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders Examinations etc.) 624 0 1,009 0
Section III 468 0 907 0
Extraordinary Gazette 3,360 0 4,422 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies if available in stock
Price Postage (Local)
  Rs. c.   Rs. c.
(A) Part I 31 0 5 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 11 0 5 0
(B) Section I 10 0 5 0
Section II 12 0 5 0
Section III 9 0 5 0
All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 32, Lotus Road,
Colombo 01, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 9 -->

67 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2007
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette. Payments
should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 32, Lotus Road, Colombo 01.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
Schedule
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2007
FEBRUARY 02.02.2007 Friday — 19.01.2007 Friday 12 noon
09.02.2007 Friday –– 26.01.2007 Friday 12 noon
15.02.2007 Thursday –– 02.02.2007 Friday 12 noon
23.02.2007 Friday –– 09.02.2007 Friday 12 noon
MARCH 02.03.2007 Friday — 15.02.2007 Thursday 12 noon
09.03.2007 Friday –– 23.02.2007 Friday 12 noon
16.03.2007 Friday –– 02.03.2007 Friday 12 noon
23.03.2007 Friday –– 09.03.2007 Friday 12 noon
30.03.2007 Friday –– 16.03.2007 Friday 12 noon
APRIL 05.04.2007 Thursday — 23.03.2007 Friday 12 noon
12.04.2007 Thursday –– 30.03.2007 Friday 12 noon
20.04.2007 Friday –– 05.04.2007 Thursday 12 noon
27.04.2007 Friday –– 12.04.2007 Thursday 12 noon
L AKSHMAN    GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.