

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'06'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.06.2013
1A
My No.: Cl/1545.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Standard Chartered Bank, 37, York Street, Colombo 01 of the one part and The Ceylon
Bank Employees' Union, 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10 of the other part on 16th day of August 2012 is hereby published in terms of
Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legisltive Enactments of Ceylon ,  (Revised Edition 1956).
V . B. P. K. W
EERASINGHE,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
30th April, 2013.
Collective Agreement No. 21 of 2012
This Collective Agreement made this 16th Day of August 2012 between Standard Chartered Bank, a Bank duly registered in Sri
Lanka and having its registered office at 37, York Street, Colombo 1 (hereinafter referred to as "the Bank")
of the One Part
and
The Ceylon Bank Employees' Union, a Trade Union duly registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered office at 20 Temple Road ,
Colombo 10. (hereinafter referred to as "the Union")
of the Other part
WHEREAS the Union made demands for re-negotiation of the Standard Chartered Bank, collective Agreement of 2009 which came into
effect on 1st April,  2009 and subsequent to negotiations between the Bank and the Union, agreement has now been reached between the
said two parties for the purpose of ensuring better employee terms and conditions, cooperation between the Bank, the Union and the
employees and maintaining an efficient and productive working environment, the matters agreed upon are set out hereunder.
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notifications
wxl 1814$38 – 2013 cqks 11 jeks wÕyrejdod – 2013'06'11
No. 1814/38 – TUESDAY, JUNE 11, 2013
1A – G17778 – 325 (2013/06)
N.B.– This Gazette can be downloaded from WWW.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'06'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.06.2013
1. Parties to be Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind Sandard Chartered Bank (the Bank), the Ceylon Bank
Employees Union (the Union) and members of the Union employed on monthly contracts of employment by the Bank and who are
employed in any of the categories as at the date of signing this Agreement and for whom salary ranges have been prescribed in this agreement
in the First Schedule hereto (hereinafter referred to as the employees). This Agreement shall not cover and bind any employee w ho is an
Officer, Assistant Manager, Manager or any other Staff on special rates of pay.
2. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall come into force on the 1st April, 2012 and shall continue until either
party terminates it by written notice in terms of the industrial Disputes Act but no such notice shall be given before the 31st March 2015.
The Union shall, however, have the right to commence negotiations for  a revised Collective Agreement at any time on or after 1st July 2014.
3. Earlier Agreements..– This Agreement shall supersede any other Collective Agreement entered into or binding on the parties
hereto an such earlier Agreements including the Standard Chartered Bank collective Agreeent of 2009 shall stand repudiated in respect of the
parties hereto.
4. Matters covered and Bound.– This agreement shall be in full and final settlement of all matters covered herein as well as of all the
matters raised by the Union and in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties before the conclusion of this Agreemet and
the Union agrees that it will not during the continuence in force of this Agreement raise any of the matters which were discuss ed and
mnegotiated between the parties preceding this Agreement except to the extent agreed.
The Union and its member shall not during the continueance in force of this Agreement seek to vary, alter or add to all or any of the terms
and conditions of enmployment or benefits presently applicable or enjoyed as provided for in this Agreement other than by mutua l
agreement with the Bank.
5. Consolidated Salary.– Every employee  covered by this Agreement in service as at the date of signing this Agreement shall from
the 1st  April, 2012, be placed on the salary range set out in the First Schedule hereto, which salary has been consolidated ta king into
consideration the payment in lieu of cost of Living stipulated in clause 7 (1).
6. Immediate Increase and conversion to Salary Ranges..– For the placement of any empolyee on the salary range applicable in the
First Schedule the following provisions shall apply. All empoloyees in service as at 31 st march, 2012 shall be entitled to the  following
increase.
(i)  A sum equal to 16% (Sixteen Percent) of the gross salary (salary plus cost of living allowance) payable as at 31st March
2012, shall be added to the salary of such employees with effect from 1st April, 2012.
(ii) A sum equal to 3% (Three Percent) of the gross salary (salary plus cost of living allowance) payable as at 31st March
2012, shall be added to the salary of such employee with effect from 1st April, 2013.
7.  Allowances.–
I. COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE.–
Parties are agreed that the following shall be the payment in lieu of the monthly cost of living allowance for the duration of the
Collective Agreement.
(a) Rs. 17,000 with effect from 01.04.2012;
(b) Rs. 18,500 with effect from 01.04.2013;
(c) Rs. 20,000 with effect from 01.04.2014;
Provided, however, in the event of the Department of Census and Statistics publishing a linking factor pertaining to the rate of
payment in relation to the Colombo Consumers Price Index (Base Year 2002) and the CCPI (Base year 2006/2007) and if your
union makes a request for a meeting to discus the modalities of making this payment, the Bank would be agreeable to do so.
II. DISTURBANCE ALLOWANCE.–
With effect from 01st April, 2012, an employee called upon to report for work before 7.00 a.m. shall receive Rs. 500 per day,
and if required to report before 6 a.m. shall receive Rs. 700 per day.
III. TELLER ALLOWANCE.–
With effect from 01.04.2012, teller will be paid a monthly risk allowance of Rs. 3,000. This allowance shall be payable at the
end of each quarter (i.e. March, June, September and December each year). This amount will be pro-rated for period less than
one month by dividing Rs. 3,000 by 30 and multiplying by the number of days the employee has worked in the capacity of a
teller.
The payment of the teller allowance will made subject to the following condition.
1.  The payment of the teller allowance can be suspended to those emoloyees who are found to be negligent in performing
duties, after due inquiry.
2.  Any cash shortage which cannot be recovered throught insurance will be set off abainst the teller's allowance.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'06'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.06.2013
3A
3. The Teller allowance will not be included for he purpose of computing consequential benefits.
IV . TRAVELLING ALLOWANCE.–
The Bank will continue the existing practice of granting a travelling allowance of Rs. 1,000 per month will be paid to all
employees covered and bound by the Collective Agreement.
Transport will be provided to all employees working after 7.30 p.m.
V NIGHT SHIFT ALLOWANCE.–
with effect from 01st April, 2012, a Night Shift Allowance of Rs. 700/- shift will be paid to staff members who are required and
authorized by Management to work from 8 p.m. to 8 a.m.
8. Annual Salary Increments..– With effect from 01st April, 2012, the annual increments awarded to employees covered and bound
by this Agreement will be based on the employee's performance during the previous calendar year.
I. ANNUAL INCREMENT DATE.–
The annual increment date for all employees will be 1st of March each year therafter
II. ASSMENT OF PERFORMANCE.–
The annual increments awarded to staff will be based on such staff member's performance, during the previous calendar year,
ending 31st December of each preceding year, based on a Performance Assessment Review which will be carried out by the
staff member's Line-Manager.
The performance of the staff member will be assessed in terms of a rating on a scale of 1 to 5, in terms of which 1 will be the
highest performance level and 5 will be the lowest performance level on the scale.
III. ANNUAL PERFORMANCE INCREMENT AND QUANTUM .–
In terms of the above ratings, a minimum annual increment of 5% of Gross salary as at December each year will be paid (except
in the case of an employee's increment being differed/ stopped or suspended on account of disciplinary  action) in the
succeeding year during the duration of this agreement, as stipulated in Clause 8(1).
Performance increments in excess of the above may be granted at the absolute discretion of the Bank, subject to  a maximum
limit of 10% to recognize and promote higher levels of performance.
Provided however, an employee's basic salary on receiving such an increment will not exceed the maximum salary point set out
in the salary range in schedule 1 hereto. In the event of an employee reaching the maximum salary point on the range, the
amount of the salary increment  granted over an above the maximum salary point will be paid as an annual lump sum
performance bonus. The calculation for this payment will be the amount in excess of the maximum salary point on the range,
as per the increment granted, multiplied by twelve. This lump sum performance bonus shall not attract any consequential
benefits such as overtime, terminal benefits etc.
It is also agreed by the Union to accept the 5% increase in salaries granted in March 2012 as the performance based annual
increment component of employees covered and bound for the year 2012.
9. Grading Structure.– Those covered and bound by this agreement are employees at Grade 10.
10. Promotions.–  Without prejudice to the right of the Bank to recruit staff at their discretion into any job grade the Bank will
consider suitable employees for promotions to higher job grades, based upon the Bank's needs and vacancies that may arise from time to
time. The decision of the bank in respect of selection for promotion shall be final and conclusive. Consideration will be given to performance,
qualifications, experience, and merit when selections are made. A minimum increase of 5% of basic salary will be granted when b eing
promoted to a higher grade, in addition to the annual increment subject to the provisions and conditions in Clause 8 (III).
In addition to staff being recommended by their Senior Manager, staff may be granted the opportunity of directly making their own
applications for consideration. Vacancies will be filled with existing staff wherever possible, however if applicant for such vacancies do not
meet the required standards, the Bank will recruit externally.
11. Provident Fund.–
I. RATES OF CONTRIBUTION .–
The rates of contribution to the provident Fund by the Bank as at the date of this Agreement which are as follows shall continue
in force subject to the rules of the Provident Fund.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'06'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.06.2013
Bank's contribution-12% (Twelve per cent) of consolidated Basic Salary
Employee's contribution - 8% (Eight per cent) of Consolidated Basic Salary.
II INTEREST ON PROVIDENT FUND CONTRIBUTION HELD BY THE BANK.
The Bank with whom all Provident Fund monies have been invested shall pay the rate of interest paid on 12 months Fixed Deposits
for a sum of Rs. 100,000 published by the National Savings Bank prevailing as at 1 st January each year, on the net provident Fund monies
invested by the Bank.
Provided however that the Committee of Managemet of the Provident Fund shall be entitled to call a meeting of the General
Membership whenever it is deemed necessary in order to decide on suitable investments of the Fund and the returns from time to time.
III. Deficiency in Bank's Contributions to Provident Fund to an Employee not entitled to a pension.
Applicable to those employees named in schedule 3
Where an employee shall cease to be employe by the Bank in circumstances which do not entitled him to a pension or payment in lieu of
pension, as the case may be, such employee shall be entitled to the difference between the Bank's contribution made to the Fund during his
period of service and the Employer's minimum rate of contribution he would have been entitled to, in terms of the Employees Pro vident
Fund Act and its amendments from time to time as a contribution to the fund by the Employer on behalf of such employee. Such deficiency
will be the difference between the following minimum rates of contribution under the Act and consolidated basic salary actually contributed
by the Bank.
From 01.01.1981 to 30.09.1981                 12% of gross salary
Prior to 31.12.1980 the Employer's minimum rate of contribution was 9% of  total earnings (gross salary) which was less
than 10% of consolidated basic salary and therefore no deficiency arises.
The rate of contribution by the Bank, increased from 10% to 12% of gross salary with effect from 1st October, 1991 and therefor e no
deficiency arises thereafter.
Accordingly, deficiency in Provident Fund - Employer's Contribution will only arise in respect of the period 01.01.1981 to 30.09.1991 and
will be computed by dividing the aggregate employer's contribution during this period by 10 and multiplying same by 2 to make good the
2% deficiency.
Applicable to those employees named in schedule 2
When an employee shall cease to be employed by the Bank in circumstances which do not entitle him to a pension or payment in li eu of
pension as the case may be, such employee shall be entitled to the difference between the Bank's contributions made to the Fund during his
period of service and the employer's minimum rate of contribution he would have been entitled to, in terms of the Employee' Provident Fund
Act and its amendments from time to time as a contribution to the Fund by the employer on behalf of such employee. Such deficiency will
be the difference between the following minimum rates of contribution under the Act and 10% of basic salary actually contributed by the
Banks up to 31st March 1992.
From 1.1.1971 to 31.12.1980 9% of gross salary
From 1.1.1981 onwards 12% of gross salary
Prior to 31.12.1970 the employer's minimum rate of contribution was 6% of total earnings (gross salary) which was less than 10% of
basic salary and therefore no deficiency arises.
12. Terminal Benefits .– 1. Pensions, The Bank operates two pension  Schemes.
One scheme is  as  fully described in / (a) below (hereinafter called the "SCB Pension Scheme") will govern the pension benefits
of the employees  whose names are set out in Schedule 2 hereto.
The others scheme  fully described in  1(b) below (hereinafter called the "SCGB Pension Scheme") will govern the pension benefits
of the employees  whose names are set out in Schedule 3 hereto.
All current employees at 31st January 2010, who qualify for  a pension, will be governed either by the SCB or  SCGB  pension
scheme.
With the objective of having a unified pension scheme for all employees, the Bank intends to introduce a  uniform Pension scheme
is the future Subject to the operation of the two pensien schemes  described  above, the Bank and the Union agrees to have discussions during
the pendency of this Agreement and agree on the introduction of the uniform pension Scheme to employees covered under this agreement.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'06'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.06.2013
5A
Subject to agreement being reached, the exisiting employees who are governed by the SCB or SCGB pension scheme may opt the
transfer to the new pension scheme on it's introduction. All new employees recruited subsequent to the introduction of the new pension
Scheme will be enrolled in that scheme, as expressly stated in their terms of employment.
(a) SCGB Pension Scheme (Applicable to employees listed in Schedule 3)
(i) Pension -Retirement
An employee shall, upon reaching the age of retirement  i.e. 55 years and who is in the permanent employment of the Bank at such
time and shall have completed not less than 10 years of actual continuous service (excluding absence/leave without pay), be entitled to a
pension computed on the following basis, provided however, than an employee between the age of 50 and 55 years, who shall have
completed not less than 10 years of service, in the manner referred to above, may opt to retire, subject however, to granting the Bank the
stipulated period of  notice of retirement.
Number of completed years service (max. 35 years) plus 5  x Monthly salary payable for the month of retirement +COLA
60
(ii) Pension - Premature Retirement on Medical Grounds/Disability
An employee, who is found to be unable to continue to perform his or her duties as a result of infirmity/disability  as certified by the
Bank's doctor/Medical Specialist/Government Medical Board, and who is in the permanent employment of the Bank at such time, and shall
have completed not less than 10 years of actual continuous service (excluding absence/leave without pay) shall be entitled to a  Pension
computed on the same basis referred to at Clause 12  1 a(i) above. Provided, however, that where an employee is entitled to compensation
by the Bank under any laws in force at the time or an Award of Court, such employee shall only be entitled to a pension or such
compensation as opted by him or her, but  not to  both. Provided further, that in the case of any employee whose premature reti rement
occurred in consequence of an accident which entitled him to compensation, the pre-acceptance of Pensions as provided herein, w ill not
restrict the right of such employee in subsequently claiming any balance compensation,  under any written law.
(iii) Commutation of Pension - In Lieu of Pension Rights
An employee who is entitled to receive  a pension in terms of Clause 12 1 (a) (i) and 12 1 (a) (ii) above may at his discretion opt for
the payment of a commutation of pension in lieu of his pension rights.
The payment will be computed on the following basis
Number of completed years service (max. 35 years) plus 5 x 2x (Monthly salary payable or the month of retirement + COLA)
The above payment shall constitute a settlement in full and final satisfaction of all claims against the Bank on account of the cessation
of employment in respect of gratuity, pension, deficiency if any, in Bank's contribution to Provident fund, to an employee not paid a
pension, in terms of Clause 12 1 (a) (i) and 12  1 (a) (ii) above.
(b) SCGB Pension Scheme (Applicable to employees listed in Schedule 2)
(i) Pension -Retirement
With effect from the date of this Agreement, an employee entitled to a pension in expressed terms  of his employment  shall,  upon
reaching the retirement  age of the Bank and who is   in the permanent employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed not
less than 10 years of actual continuous service (excluding absence/leave without  Pay) , be entitled to a monthly pension computed on the
following basis.
No. of Completed years Service (max. 35 years )Plus 5  x  (Monthly salary payable or the month of retirement + COLA)
55
(ii) Pension - Premature Retirement on Medical Grounds/Disability
An employee, who is found to be unable to continue to perform his duties as a result of infirmity/disability  as certified by the Bank's
doctor/Medical Specialist/Government Medical Board, and who is in the permanent employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have
completed not less than 10 years of actual continuous service (excluding absence/leave without pay) shall be entitled to a Pension computed
on the same basis referred to at Clause 12  1 b(i) above. Provided, however, that where an employee is entitled to compensation by the Bank
under any laws in force at the time or an Award of Court, such employee shall only be entitled to a pension or such compensation as opted
by him but not to  both. Provided further, that in the case of an employee whose premature retirement occurred in consequence of an accident
which entitled him to compensation, the pre-acceptance of Pensions as provided herein, will not restrict the right of such empl oyee in
subsequently claiming any balance compensation,  under any written law.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'06'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.06.2013
(iii) Lump Sum Gratuity in Lieu of Pension Rights
An employee who is entitled to receive  a pension in terms of  121 ( b) (i) or  12 1 b (ii) above may at his discretion opt for  the
payment of a lump sum  gratuity in liue of  his pension and  any other payments, arising there from. The Payment will be computed on the
following basis.
No. of completed years X 1.5 x (basic salary plus Cost of Living Allowance calculated for
Service (max. 35 years) plus 5 the month of retirement)
The above payment shall constitute a settlement in full and final satisfaction of all claims against the Bank on account of the cessation of
employment in respect of gratuity, pension, deficiency, if any, in  the Bank's contribution to Provident Fund to an employee no t paid a
pension in terms of Clause 12 1 (b) (i) or 12 1 (b) (ii) above.
(iv) Commuted Pension
(i) At the option of the employee at the time of retirement on or after 1st April 2006, 25% of  the monthly pension into 120 will
be paid  to employees who are entitled  to a pension, who do not opt for a lump sum payment as provided for in the
agreement and who opt for such commuted pension.
(ii) Where an employee commutes his monthly pension in the manner aforesaid, the monthly pension payable to him during the
first ten years of retirement will be 75% of the monthly pension he would have been entitled to at the time of retirement if
he had not so commuted his pension. After the expiry of the said ten years the amount of the monthly pension so commuted
will be restored and added to the monthly pension then being paid.
1I. DEA TH GRA TUITY
On the death of an employee who has been confirmed and is in the permanent employment of the Bank, the Bank  will make a
compassionate payment of two month's gross salary for each year of completed service, subject to a minimum of twelve months gro ss
salary, to the legitimate dependents of the deceased employee, as may be determined by the Bank at its sole discretion on the b asis of
information supplied to them.
In the case of the death of an employee who is not confirmed in  employment the amount payable will be 50% of that payable to a
confirmed employee provided that in the case of an employee who has not been confirmed onsequent upon a promotion to a higher grade,
the gratuity payable will be calculated as in the case of a confirmed employee. The gross salary for this purpose shall be the last drawn salary
plus Cost of Living Allowance.
Provided, however, that in the event of death arising out of and in the course of employment, the dependents shall be entitled  to and
receive either the death gratuity referred to herein or payment by way of Compensation under any laws in force at  the time on account of
Employees Compensation or under any other law or an Award of Court, whichever, is higher. Provided further, that in the case of  an
employee whose death occurred in consequence of an accident  which entitled him to compensation, the pre-acceptance of Death Gratuity
as provided herein, shall not restrict the  right of such dependents in subsequently claiming any balance compensation due  to  them under
any written law.
III. GRATUITY UPON RESIGNATION/TERMINATION PRIOR TO RETIREMENT
An employee shall, upon resignation/termination of employment prior to retirement in circumstances which do not entitle him  to  the
terminal benefits referred to at the aforementioned Clauses 12 1 (a) and 12 1 (b) be entitled to a gratuity computed in  terms of the Payment
of Gratuity Act. (1983), which shall be paid within  30 days of the cessation of employment.
The salary for this purpose shall comprise the salary referred to at Clause 5 and  the Cost Living Allowance referred to at Clause 7
(a) hereof.
Completed years of actual service shall include only actual continuous service worked excluding absence/leave without pay,  but
subject to the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act (1983) and Clause 20 thereof.
No benefits  granted under these rules shall be assignable or transferable to any person or corporation other than the Bank. The Bank
would, however, have a right of lien over benefits in the event of fraud or dishonesty by any employee, resulting in a loss  to the Bank.
13. Funeral Assistance.– With  effect from 01st April,  2012 the Bank will grant assistance to the family of a staff member, who
expires while in service, by way of meeting the actual cost of funeral expenses, subject however, to a maximum limit of Rs. 100,000/-.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'06'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.06.2013
7A
The Bank will also grant assistance to an employee in service, in the event of the death of a spouse or child (below 21 years of age).
In such an instance, the bank will assist to meet the actual cost of funeral expenses, subject to a maximum limit of Rs. 50,000/-.
14. Medical Scheme.– With  effect from 01st April, 2012 the following medical scheme will be applicable during the period of the
agreement.
I. REIMBURSEMENT OF MEDICAL EXPENSES FOR NON-HOSPITALIZATION EXPENSES
The Bank shall reimburse an  employee up to a maximum of Rs. 17,500/- per annum, in respect of medical expenses incurred by him on his
own behalf, on behalf of his spouse or unmarried legitimate children under the age of 18, provided however, that any medical claim on this
account shall be supported by relevant prescriptions,  bills and receipts. Provided further that the prescriptions or doctors bills shall be from
a Registered Medical Practitioner. This facility shall be per annum and non-cumulative.
II. SPECIAL NON-HOSPITALIZATION AND NON-SURGICAL EXPENDITURE
The Bank shall reimburse an  employee on a non-cumulative basis a further  sum upto a maximum of Rs. 7,500/- per annum on account of
special non-hospitalization and non-surgical expenses covering  the following items only incurred on behalf of the employee and  not on
behalf of his family members:
(a) Dentures
(b) Hearing Aids
Subject  to valid documentation  as in the case  of 12 (a) above and subject to the provisos that no claim is made in relation to items
(a) and (b) more than once in three years.
Provided in the case of spectacles the Bank  will reimburse an employee a sum of Rs. 15,000/- in lieu of expenses only once every
two (2) years. In the case of spectacles the claim must further be supported by a prescription from a Medical Eye Specialist. Any claim made
for spectacles will be deducted from the Special Non hospitalization and Non surgical allowance of Rs. 7,500/- per year.
The Bank at its discretion may consult appropriate medical opinion for confirmation in respect of a claim made under 14 (ii) above.
(III) SURGICAL AND HOSPITALIZATION EXPENDITURE
An employee would be entitled to the benefits on account of surgical and hospital expenses in respect of hospitalization  on
his own behalf, of his spouse, unmarried dependent children, parents  and parents-in-law, upto a maximum limit of
Rs. 300,000/- (Rupees Three Hundred Thousand) for any one year.
A dependent parent shall only include a parent who resides with and is totally dependent upon the staff member and shall
not be in receipt of any source of income/pension/grant, etc., as may be verified by the Bank.
The year for this purpose would be a Calendar Year i.e. 1st January to 31st December of each year.
Reimbursement of Surgical and Hospital Expenses is subject to conditions specified by the insurers. Any changes to the
conditions of the policy will be applied accordingly.
All payments on account of this facility will be strictly confined to the direct payment or reimbursement of actual bills from
a nursing home or government hospital.
In the case of admission to a non-paying Government hospital, the staff member will be entitled to a payment of
Rs. 1,500/- (One Thousand Five Hundred) per day of admission to meet the cost of travelling and incidental expenses plus
the actual cost of any drugs etc. prescribed by the Surgeon/Doctor.
Married family unit consists of employee, spouse and two children, upto two parents of the employee and upto two
parents-in-law. Unmarried family unit consists of the employee and both parents.
The Fourth Schedule hereto sets out the terms on which reimbursement of medical expenditure will be effected.
(IV) MATERNITY GRANT
With effect from 01st April, 2012, an employee who is married will be entitled to a grant of Rs. 20,000/- in respect of twin
births of children. If both spouses are employed in the Bank only one shall be entitled to this grant.
This grant will be payable via the Bank’s Insurance provider, under the hospitalization insurance referred to in
Clause 14(iii).

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'06'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.06.2013
15. Retirement.– (a) The age of retirement shall be 55 years or any other age mutually agreed between the Bank and its employees
and on reaching the age of 55 or any other age mutually agreed upon, an employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be
employed by the Bank and there shall be no obligation on the Bank to give such employee any notice of such retirement.
(b) An employee may also be retired and be eligible for retirement benefits if he is not less than 50 years and has 10 or more
years of service, subject to mutual agreement between the employee, his Union and the employer that he should be given
such concession and subject to the condition that the refusal by any party to agree to such premature retirement shall not
constitute an industrial dispute.
16. Bonus.– Without prejudice to the claim of the Bank that bonus payments are ex-gratia, the Bank will each year pay to every
employee covered by this Agreement a bonus of two months’ salary as drawn by such employee for the month of December in respect of
one complete year of service meaning January to December and proportionately for service less than one year at the rate of one-twelfth of
such entitlement in respect of each complete month of service. The salary for this purpose shall include the cost of living allowance payable
for that month.
17. Personal Accident Insurance.– The Bank will take insurance cover against compensation payable to staff, resulting from injury
or death, arising out of any accident, in Sri Lanka or overseas 24 hour cover.
(i) CATEGORY OF EMPLOYEES COVERED
All categories of staff.
(ii) LIMIT OF INDEMNITY
100% of sum insured would be equivalent to 60 months consolidated gross salary of the staff member concerned.
(iii) TABLE OF COMPENSATION
Accidental bodily Injury Limit of Indemnity
(i) Death 100% of sum insured
(ii) T otal and irrecoverable loss of use of both hands or Occurring within twelve months of the injury or the
both feet or one eye and one limb (hand or foot) or happening of the event, 100% of sum insured to 50% of
one hand and one foot, use of one Eye, one hand or sum insured
one Foot.
(iii) Permanent total disablement 100% of sum insured
Double the scale of compensation to staff engaged in courier of cash and those staff who are engaged as technicians.
Definition - PERMANENT TOTAL DISABLEMENT - Shall mean permanent and complete inability to attend to any
part whatsoever of the employee’s occupation or any other occupation for which he is fitted by knowledge and training.
(iv) LIMITATIONS
Benefits under III (iii) above shall be payable only at the end of the 52nd week from the date of injury.
Payment shall not be made under more than one of the scales of compensation specified at III(i), (ii) or (iii) above.
No further liability to make any payment for any employee shall attach to the insurers or the Bank, after a claim under
the scales of compensation specified at III (i), (ii) or (iii) have been admitted and become payable.
While the bank will make every effort and care in lodging claims for compensation, it will not accept responsibility or
liability in respect of any claims that may not be accepted or in which liability is repudiated by the insures, under any
circumstances whatsoever.
18. Loan Facilities.–
I. HOUSING LOAN
(a) Eligibility.– Five years service with a record of good performance as determined by the Bank. A 3C rating or above, for the
past 2 years, will be considered ‘good performance’.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'06'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.06.2013
9A
(b) Limit: Rs. 3,500,000/-
(c) Quantum of Loan.– (i) The maximum loan entitlement shall be such capital sum as per the above limits which the staff
member shall be capable of repaying in full including interest, prior to his/her retirement, within the monthly salary
deduction of sixty per centum (60%) of gross salary on account of all loans availed of and other deductions.
(ii) The loan shall be in respect of 100% of the cost of the house and property, including legal charges and stamp duties
and the cost of the single premium life insurance premia. In the case pf purchase of land and construction of a house
thereon, there should be clear proof to the satisfaction of the management, that the staff member will be completing
the purchase of land and construction of a house thereon, within the loan entitlement., i.e. Loans will not be available
for partial construction of a house.
(d) Interest.– Interest shall be charged monthly on the outstanding balance and shall be recovered along with the principal at
2% per annum.
(e) Repayment.– Repayment period shall be extended up to the point of retirement of a staff member.
(f) Security.– (i) Mortgage over property
(ii) Promissory Note (Where Mortgage has not yet been signed)
(iii) T emporary decreasing Life Insurance Policy
(iv) Any other form of security arrangements recommended by the Bank’s Attorneys or considered necessary in the
circumstances by the bank.
(g) Restrictions.– (i) The housing loan facility is a one-off facility that will accrue to a staff memeber only once during his/
her employment except, however, in the case of a staff member who shall sell the house purchased against the loan and
repay such loan in full, whereupon such staff member may be entitled to a further loan to purchase another house and
property subject to the satisfaction of the Bank that such reinvestment was for the improvement of living standards
within reasonable limits of the staff member and family.
(ii) Loans will be available only to build, re-build or extend a house, but not for repairs.
(iii) In the case of the purchase of a house and property, the needs of such house and property shall be examined by the
Bank’s lawyers and a Certificate of good title obtained.
(iv) Loans will not be granted to staff members who shall not reside in the house being purchased, built or extended, as
the case may be.
(v) A valuation of the house and property should be obtained from a Certified/Qualified Valuer, confirming the value of
such house and property.
(vi) A Certificate of Non-Vesting should be obtained from the Municipal/Urban Council Authorities.
(vii) A Certificate to be obtained from the Municipal/Urban Council Authorities that the Municipal rate, Electricity,
Water Bills, etc. have been paid in full, upto the date of transfer.
(viii) The house and property must be kept in good condition at all times and should be made available for inspection by
the Bank from time to time during the operation of the loan.
(ix) This facility shall further be subject to the general restrictions specified under ‘‘Loans General Restrictions’’
II. VEHICLE LOAN
(a) Eligibility.– Three years service with a record of good performance, as determined by the Bank
(b) Quantum of Loan.– The maximum loan entitlement shall be such capital sum which the staff member shall be capable of
repaying in full including interest, prior to his/her retirement, within the maximum monthly salary deduction of sixty
percent (60%) of consolidated gross salary on account of all loans availed of and other deductions. Salary for this purpose
shall be the salary drawn by the staff member as at date of application.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'06'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.06.2013
(c) Interest.– 3% per annum, applied monthly
(d) Repayment.– Not more than 72 monthly installments in the case of Motor Vehicles and 36 installments in the case of
Motor Cycles/Scooters.
In the case of employees with more than 5 years service, the repayment shall be extended to cover a period of ten
years.
(e) Security.– (i) Mortgage over vehicle or unencumbered lien over Provident Fund.
(ii) Demand Promissory Note pending execution of Mortage Bond.
(iii) Lien over total Provident fund balances
(iv) Comprehensive Insurance Policy to cover the full prevailing market value of the vehicle and cover all risks, including
‘‘Learner Driver’’ where applicable.
(v) Registration Book of the vehicle to be lodged with the Bank pending execution of  Mortage bond and registration of
same with the Registrar of Motor V ehicles.
(f) Restrictions.– (i) The staff member is free to pay more than the minimum repayment installment, subject however, to the
restriction speciffied under ‘‘Loans-General Resrictions’’.
(ii) The vehicle to be for the personal use of the staff member concerned and cannot be hired, rented or leased.
(iii) The staff member or spouse must posses a valid driving license issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, to drive
the class of vehicle for which the loan is obtained.
(iv) In the case of a second hand vehicle a Valuation Report should be obtained from the local agent, the Automobile
Association of Ceylon or any other Valuer recognized by the Bank and the quantum of loan shall not exceed the
amount of such valuation.
(v) In the case of all purchases the payment shall be made by pay Order drawn directly in favor of the seller, for the
purchase value of such vehicle.
(vi) The vehicle must be kept in good condition at all times and should be made avaliable for inspection by the Bank from
time to time.
(vii) No further loans under this facility will be available to a staff member even though the total has been repaid, in full
if such staff member is in possession of a vehicle earlier purchased under the same facility.
(vii) This facility shall further be subject to the general restrictions specified under ‘‘Loans General Restrictions’’.
III. PERSONAL  LOAN
(a) Eligibility.– One  year  service with a record of good performance, as determined by the Bank.
(b) Quantum of Loan.– Maximum nine months gross salary. Salary for this purpose shall be the salary drawn by the staff
member as at date of application.
(c) Interest
5% per annum, applied monthly.
(d) Repayment.– Not more than 48 monthly installments.
(e) Security.– (i) Promissory Note in favour of the Bank.
(ii) Un-encumbered lien over Provident fund total balances.
(f) Restrictions– Personal Loan enhancements will be available only after repayment of 12 installments.
This facility shall further be subject to the general restrictions specified under ‘‘Loans General Restrictions’’.
IV . SURGICAL AND HOSPITALIZATION  LOAN
Where any staff member requests for financial assistance, the bank will grant such staff member a letter addressed
to the hospital/nursing home undertaking to settle bills in full, where such hospitalization expenses qualify for
reimbursement under the conditions of the Surgical and Hospital Expenses Scheme, provided however, that all

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'06'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.06.2013
11A
expenses, hospital charges, etc., which do not qualify for reimbursement, will be recoverable from the staff member
concerned, who may if he so desires, request for such recovery in installment. Recovery shall be in no more than 36
monthly installments, interest free.
This facility shall, however, be  further be subject to the general restrictions specified under ‘‘Loans General
Restrictions’’.
V . FESTIV AL ADVANCE
(a) Quantum and Conditions.– One  month’s gross salary for any one festival each year of the employee’s choice, repayable
in 10 equal installments, interest free, provided further, that such Festival Advance will  not be payable until the Festival
Advance paid previously, has been recovered in full.
(b) Restrictions.–  The total deduction from the staff member’s salary including this recovery and all other deductions shall
not exceed 60% of the staff members consolidated gross salary.
(vi) LOANS-GENERAL RESTRICTIONS
(i) BANK POLICY OF GRANTING LOANS - Loans, unlike salary and perquisites are not automatically due to any
employee. Staff loan facilities, at highly concessional rates of interest and very soft repayment periods are regarded
by the Bank as a costly fringe benefit, only available to staff with a good record of overall performence. Staff who,
therefore, do not possess a good record of performance, as assessed by the Bank will not qualify to enjoy these loan
facilities.
(ii) REPA YMENT RESTRICTIONS 60% OF GROSS SALARY - MAXIMUM LIMIT ON ACCOUNT OF ALL
DEDUCTIONS (INCLUDING LOAN PAYMENTS) SHALL NOT EXCEED 60% - While the staff member is
free to avail himself of loans in any proportions (subject to the restrictions) under no circumstances whatsoever,
shall the total deductions from such staff member’s monthly salary including all loan deductions exceed 60% of such
staff member’s monthly gross salary.
(iii) REPA YMENT THROUGH SALARY ONLY - The recognised means of repayment of all Staff Loan Facilities will
be exclusively confined to recoveries from monthly salary, except at the time of termination when repayment from
balance dues and in cash will be acceptable.
(iv) Accordingly under no circumstances will employee be permitted to manipulate, improve and / or advance their loan
facilities under any of the loan facilities by repayment in cash or any other means, excluding normal deductions from
salary.
(v) SENIOR MANAGEMENT DISCRETION - The above terms and conditions will generally apply in respect of all
loan schemes referred to in these terms of service. However, the General Manager may exercise his discretion
referred to above, to the benefit of any staff member, subject however, to the condition that the restriction pertaining
to the maximum period of repayment and the maximum deduction of 40% of his gross salary, as defined in the above
scheme cannot be varied and shall strictly apply.
(vi) CESSATION OF STAFF MEMBER’S EMPLOYMENT - In the event of there being a balance outstanding under
any loan facility at the date of cessation of a staff member’s employment, such balance shall be immediately
repayable in full and all concessions enjoyed by the staff member under these terms of service shall cease forthwith.
(vii) BANK’S LIEN OVER PROVIDENT FUND - In terms of the rules of the Grindlays Bank Ceylonese staff
Provident fund the Bank enjoys a first and paramount lien on 75% of the aggregate balance, (including interest) lying
to the credit of a staff member in respect of any loans or salary advance or any other dues to the Bank, which the bank
may exercise, for recovery in the event of the termination of death of staff member.
(viii) UNSECURED LOANS, REDUCE PROVIDENT FUND LOANS - All staff loans, excluding Housing Loans, are
categorized ‘UNSECURED LOANS’ and the Provident Fund Committee of Management should be advised that
when granting employee loans against their Provident fund balance, the entitlement has to be reduced by the total
amount of ‘UNSECURED’ staff loans. Also similarly the eligibility under the Staff loans Scheme will be reduced by
the amount of the outstanding Provident fund Loan, i.e. The lien on Provident Fund monies can only be of value if
such monies are available to the Bank.

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'06'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.06.2013
(ix) MISUSE - In the event of any staff member being found to misuse these loan facilities or violating the terms and
conditions of any of these Schemes the Bank may at its discretion so advise the staff member and apply the
commercial rate of interest on the loan and increase the repayment and also impose any further action if may deem
necessary against any such staff member in the circumstances.
19. Probation.– Every employee recruited by the Bank will serve a period of nine months probation  subject to the right of the Bank
to extend the period of probation by a further period of three months.
20. Concessions to Branch Union Office Bearers and General Councilors.– (a) The Bank shall at its discretion permit the
release of not more than two Branch Union Office Bearers at any one given occasion without loss of pay exclusively to enable
such Branch Union Office Bearers to be present at inquiries before the Labour Department, Labour Tribunal, Arbitrations,
Industrial Courts, and with their respective Bank Managements - exclusively on matters pertaining to the Bank.
(b) It is agreed that Central Committee Members (General Council) of the Union will be permitted to leave at 12.30 p.m. on
12 days in a year for meetings. In the case of outstation General Council Members, they would be permitted leave for the
whole day for 12 General Council Meetings in a year.
(c) It is agreed that a day’s paid leave shall be granted on two occasions per year to General Councilors to attend Parent
Union General Council meetings.
(d) It is agreed that Executive Committee members will be released at 3.00 p.m. for meetings of the Executive Committee of
the Union. These meetings will not usually be more than on a monthly basis.
21. Special Leave to Visit Outstation Branches.– The Bank shall permit office bearers of the Union employed by the Bank paid
leave to visit outstation branches calculated on the basis of a day’s leave available for each such branch, i.e., if there are X branches the total
number of days paid leave available shall also be X. For this purpose an outstation Branch is one situated more than 30 miles from Colombo.
22. Overtime.– (a) If required by his employer an employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the
employer, subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force.
(b) Overtime work shall be remunerated in accordance with the provisions of the Shop and Office Employees Act.
23. Annual, Medical and Casual Leave.–
I. ANNUAL LEA VE
(a) Entitlement.– In respect of each year of employment (which means the period January to December) during which and
employee has been in continuous employment he shall be entitled to take in the following year 21 working days paid
leave. He shall avail himself of at least 10 days out of the 21 days on successive days and shall in respect of each year
avail himself of not less than 14 days out of the said 21 working days.
At the end of the first year of employment the employee qualifies for proportionate leave as follows:
(a) The full annual holiday of 21 days if this employment commenced on or after 1st January but before 1st April.
(b) A holiday of 15 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st April but before 1st July.
(c) A holiday of 11 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st July but before 1st October.
(d) A holiday of 6 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st October.
 (b) Availment.–The availment of all annual leave shall be by prior authorization of the Bank upon the employee's application, giving
sufficient notice to the Bank, so as to ensure availment at times mutually convenient Availment shall be in not more than two installments
each year.
(C) Accumulation.– Annual leave may be accumulated by an employee exclusively for the following purposes:
(a) For availment in full, immediately preceding retirement by mutual arrangement with the Bank.
(b) For the purpose of attending on a family member who is seriously ill.
(c) For travel abroad for which purpose one month's prior notice shall be given.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'06'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.06.2013
13A
(d) For marriage of the employee.
(e) For use during prolonged illness of the employee, when the medical leave quantum (including accumulated medical leave) is
exhausted.
(f) On account of the death of a family member provided that the employee has exhausted his current year's leave.
(g) For purposes of nursing third and fourth children beyond the Maternity Leave entitlement.
Provided that in the case of (b) to (d) the approval of such leave shall be at the discretion of the Management. Family member for purposes
of (b) above shall mean spouse, children of parents.
Provided also that such accumulation will be restricted up to a maximum of seven (7) days per year and provided further that su ch total
accumulation shall be restricted to a maximum of ninety (90) days and shall not be encashed under any circumstances.
(d) Holiday Reimbursement.– All employees will be entitled to reimbursement of the expenses incurred by them during their Annual
Leave holiday, up to a maximum value of half month's gross salary once every year. The gross salary for this purpose shall be the gross salary
payable to such employee for the month of January entitlement of the respective year. This benefit is non-cumulative and will lapse if not
availed of during the year.
II. MEDICAL LEAVE
(a) Entitlement.– An employee shall be entitled to not less than twenty four (24) days leave exclusive of weekly or other holidays
in any one year, in case of sickness on full pay, subject to the conditions in sub-clause (b) hereof.
(b) Availment.–  The Bank will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for any days of absence on grounds of sickness not supported by
a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner.
(a) where such period of absence exceeds two consecutive days including weekly or other holidays, or
(b) where the number of days already allowed on full pay on grounds of sickness, uncertified by a Medical Practitioner, is in
excess of ten (10) days.
The Bank will be entitled, after inquiry and advising the employee concerned, to refuse to pay and/or take any action as approp riate in
situations where the absence on grounds of sickness occurs in the following circumstances.
(a) Where the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the application and/or reason for absence of an employee,
or
(b) Where the absence of the employee on grounds of sickness immediately follows or precedes any weekly or other holiday
and the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the application and/or reason for absence of the empoyee.
(c) Accumulation.–  An employee who takes less than his entitlement in any one year as prescribed above shall be entitled to avail
himself of the balance of his entitlement for such year in any succeding year or years, subject to the following provisions.
(a) in no case shall the entitlement to medical leave on full pay, by reason of such accumulation, exceed ninety (90) days, and
(b) the accumulated medical leave may only be availed of on account of prolonged illness, hospitalization or similar circum-
stances, supported by a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner,
(c) where an employee has exhausted his current year's sick leave as a result of prolonged illness such as an infectious disease
or prolonged hospitalization an employer may permit him to set off any further absence on grounds of ill health against such
accumulated sick leave up to the extent of the leave taken for such earlier prolonged illnesss.
III. Casual Leave.– An employee shall be entitled to a maximum of seven (7) days casual leave in each year of employement whereof
not more than two (2) days shall be taken at any one given time and such leave shall not precede or follow any period of annual leave. All
casual leave shall be by prior approval of the Bank, unless the reason for such absence is justified to the satisfaction of the Bank as being in
circumstances that could not have been foreseen by such employee.
24. Suspension.–  (i) Where an employee is suspended pending a disciplinary inquiry on investigations, he will, subject to the
provisions of sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) below, receive half his salary from the date of suspension up to six months and
full pay thereafter, subject to the condition that the delay was not due to the employee concerned.
3A –G17778

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'06'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.06.2013
(ii) Where the suspension is on account of charges involving financial dishonesty such as fraud or misappropriation, the
employee will not be entitled to any salary during the period of suspension unless the inquiry is not concluded within
six months of the date of suspension in which event he will  receive half his salary (salary plus cost of living
allowance) during his suspension beyond the said six months period. Provided that if the delay beyond six months is
due to the employee's own conduct or due to the employee being in custody or remand thereby making it imposible
for the Bank to hold or conclude the inquiry, half such salary as aforementioned will not be payable.
(iii) In cases not involving financial dishonesty as aforementioned, where the employer is prevented from concluding the
inquiry within six months of suspension for reasons beyond the employer's control such as where the employee
makes repeated requests for postponements or where he is remanded or in Police custody or where the matter is
under investigation by the Police, the employee will continue to receive half his salary and will not receive full pay
in these circumstances.
25. Disciplinary procedure.– Where the Bank proposes to take disciplinary action against an employee except, however, in the
case of oral warning letters of advice caution or warnings for minor offenses, the following procedure shall apply.
(a) Irrespective of whether such employee has been suspended, the employee shall be furnished with a show cause letter which
shall set out the particualrs of the charges against such employee and such show cause letter shall give the employee not less
than ten (10) calendar days within which to tender his explanation in writing to the charges preferred.
(b) Whithin ten (10) calendar days after the date of the show cause letter the employee shall tender in writing to the Bank his
explanation to the aforesaid charges provided however that if in the circumstances it is reasonable the employee may
request the Bank for an extension of time within which to tender the written explanation and where such request is made,
the Bank shall normally grant such request for such further period of time as is considered necessary by the Banks in the
circumstances.
(c) If where the employee tenders his explanation within the period of time allowed to the employee to show cause and the
Bank is satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall withdraw the charge/s against the employee and if the employee is
under suspension, the Bank shall forthwith reinstate the employee and shall pay to such employee his salary and
entitlement in respect of the period of such suspension.
(d)  Where the employee tenders his explanation within the time allowed to him to show cause and the Bank is not satisfied
with such explanation, the Bank shall subject to sub-clause (k) (iii) hereof, hold an inquiry into the charges against such
employee.
(e) The Bank shall commence an inquiry as referred to in sub-clause (d) hereof with 21 working days from the date of  receipt
by them of the written explanation to the show cause letter unless it is not possible to do so for reasons beyond  the Bank
control or by reason of the employee's own conduct or seeking or by reason of unforeseen circumstances.
(f) The Bank will permit a member of the Branch Union of the same Grade or of a Higher Grade than the accused employee or
an office bearer of the Branch Union irrespective of grade (in which case the Bank reserves to itself the right to prevent the
person carrying on the defense for unacceptable conduct) or a Central Committee Member of the Union employed in the
Bank to defend the accused employee at a domestic inquiry provided the defending employee has not obtained a legal
qualification. The defending employee will not suffer any loss of salary for absence from work on this account. The Bank
will further allow another member of the Branch Union to be present at the inquiry as an Observer without loss of salary
for absence from work. The accused employee shall submit to the Bank in writing the name of the defending employee and
Observer not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the commencement of the inquiry. The defending employee
shall be entitled to examine the witnesses for the accused emloyee and cross examine witnesses for the Bank. The inquiring
Officer will be entitled to require a defending employee or Observer who obstructs the inquiry to withdraw therefrom and
the defending employee or Observer shall  forthwith comply with such requirement. The absence of a defending employee
or Observer from the whole or any part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, not the
proceedings thereat, nor the findings pursuant thereto. The Observer shall not be entitled to participate in the proceedings
but he may answer any question which the inquiring Officer may ask him.
(g) The Union will be entitled to a copy of the proceedings of the inquiry conducted subject to Observer and the accused
employee signing proceedings as a correct record.  After the proceeding have been certified and a copy issued to the accused
employee for all purposes thereafter the proceedings shall be taken as a true copy of such proceedings before the inquiring
Officer.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'06'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.06.2013
15A
(h) The inquiring Officer shall maintain his impartialy and shall not attempt to act the role of the prosecution as well.
(i) Within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of the inquiry the Bank shall inform the employee, in writing of the
findings in respect of the charges and of the punishment, If any imposed by the Employer.
(j) Where the Bank fails to inform the employee as aforesaid within the said period of thirty (30) working days except for
reasons beyond the control of the Bank or by reason of the conduct of the employee, such employee shall not be punished
thereafter in respect of such charges and no inference adverse to the employee shall be drawn in respect of such charges.
(k) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions, the Bank shall not be required to hold a domestic inquiry in any of the following
circumstances.
(i) Where the employee fails to tender his written explanation before the expiry of the time allowed to show cause in
which event the Bank shall be entitled to take disciplinary action on the basis that such employee had no cause to
show.
(ii) Where the employee makes a written admission of the charges against him.
(iii) Where the Bank proposes to warn an employee, but without prejudice to the Union's right to request the Bank
thereafter to hold an inquiry in which event the fact that the inquiry did not commence within twenty one (21)
working days after receipt of the employee's explanation shall not be material or relevant.
(l) The findings of a domestic inquiry and the punishment if any imposed by the Bank shall be final and binding on the Bank
and the employee and the Union, unless the employee or the Union shall within three (3) months from the date on which
the Bank had notified such employee of the findings or punishment, raises a dispute in respect of such findings and / or
punishment.
(m) Where an employee is under suspension and the Bank makes order that –
(i) The employement of the employee shall be terminated then the termination of such employment shall take effect
as from the date of suspension or such later date as the Bank may determine provided further that the Bank
shall not be entitled to recover from the employee any payment made in respect of salary to the employee in respect
of such period of suspension, if any such payment has been made.
(ii) the employment of the employee shall not be terminated, then the employee shall be employed forthwith and shall
be paid the entirety of his salary in respect of the period of suspension without prejudice to the right of the Bank to
impose such other punishment other than termination, which may include the whole or part of the period of
suspension pending inquiry, on the basis of the findings of the inquiry.
(n) The observance by the Bank of sub-clauses (e), (i) and (j) shall not be necessary where an inquiry is not held in view of the
fact that the matter under inquiry is being referred or has been referred, to the Police or other authorities for investigation
or inquiries or in view of the fact that criminal charges are pending against the employee.
(o) The above provisions shall only apply in respect of inquiries that commenced after the date of signing of this Agreement.
26. Technology.– (i) The Fifth Schedule hereto contains matters relating to new Computer Based Banking Technology agreed upon
between the parties.
(ii) The Union will be free to make representations on matters relating to the introduction of new Computer Based Banking
Technology in the Bank other than on matters covered in this Agreement.
(iii) Notwithstanding the provisions of (ii) above, the Union will not be entitled to raise any industrial dispute on matters
relating to Computer Based Banking Technology, will not resort to any industrial action in that regard and any representations/
dispute in that connection shall not fall within the meaning of an industrial dispute under the laws of Sri Lanka.
(iv) It is agreed that any matter raised by the Union relating to the adverse effects of the use of computers shall be referred to
the Monitoring Committee set up under the Collective Agreement for resolution. In the event of the Monitoring Committee
not being able to satisfy the Union, such matter shall be referred to the Department of Health and Safety of the Labour
Department and the recommendation given by the Doctor-in-Charge shall be accepted by both parties and where changes
are necessary in terms of such recommendation the Monitoring Committee shall prevail on the Bank to implement such
changes.

<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'06'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.06.2013
27. Trade Union Action.–
I. MATTERS RELATED AND COVERED IN THE AGREEMENT
The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank that during the
continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of Trade Union action including
go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective action against the Bank in respect of any dispute
related to this Agreement.
II. MATTERS NOT RELA TED AND NOT COVERED IN THIS AGREEMENT
The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank that during the
continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of Trade Union action including
go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective action against the Bank in respect of any dispute
that may arise on any matter not related to this Agreement until –
(i) The Branch Union of the Bank has exhausted all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the
Bank, at which stage the Branch Union shall notify the Bank in writing of its intention to refer such matter to the
Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union).
(ii) The Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union) has intervened in the matter and has exhausted all forms of
conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the Bank and/or the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon.
(iii) In the event of there being no settlement at the level of conciliation aforesaid, the Parent Union has to give notice in
writing of not less than fourteen (14) days of the fact that there has been no satisfactory settlement of the dispute
and that it wishes to resort to trade union action. Such notice shall be given to the Bank, the Employers’ Federation
of Ceylon and to the Commissioner of Labour.
28. Union Check-off Facilities.– During the continuance in force of this Agreement and provided the Union has not less than forty
(40) percent membership among the employees covered by this Agreement the Bank shall continue to grant check-off, provided, however,
that the Bank reserves the right to stop, suspend or discontinue such facility in the event of the Union violating any of the provisions of this
Collective Agreement in relation to the Bank.
29. Implementation and Interpretation of this Agreement.– Where either the Union or the Bank are dissatisfied with the manner in
which the Collective Agreement is being implemented or where there is a complaint regarding the adverse effect of computer technology
change such matter shall be dealt with by a Monitoring Committee set up by the Bank consisting of two representatives from the Bank and
two representatives from the Union. The Bank or the Union may request that a matter be placed before the Monitoring Committee b y
communication addressed to the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon setting out the cause of complaint.
Any dispute over the interpretation of the Agreement shall be settled by voluntary arbitration under Section 3 of the Industria l
Disputes Act, 1950.
30. Consequences of Termination of Agreement.– On the termination of this Agreement all terms, conditions, benefits, facilities and
concessions enjoyed by the Union and/or its members shall ipso facto cease.
31.Definitions.– In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and phrases shall have the following
        meanings:
Bank Standard Chartered Bank
Employee an employee covered and bound by this Agreement.
Employer Standard Chartered Bank

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'06'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.06.2013
17A
Cost of Living Allowance the payment in lieu of the Cost of Living Allowance stipulated in the manner
set out in Clause 7 (i) hereof.
Parent Union the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union
Branch Union the  Branch Union of the Ceylon Bank Employees’  Union  at Standard Chartered
Bank
Dispute a dispute shall have the same meaning as an Industrial Dispute in the Industrial
Disputes Act and shall include any dispute arising between the Bank and the
Branch Union of the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union.
Salary shall mean the consolidated salary as defined in Clause 5.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
Words importing the singular number  shall include the plural and vice versa.
THE FIRST SCHEDULE
CLERICAL SALARY RANGES
Rs. 15,500/- to Rs. 55,000/-
Separate schedules will not be applicable for salary purpose as we have already aligned the remuneration of SCB/SCG employees.
THE SECOND SCHEDULE
1139797 SURANGANI B. S. FERNANDO
1139801 PIYAL P . K. GAMAGE
1139821 HIRANTHI W. W. H. N. HENDALAGE
1139831 MARZUNA Z. M. JAMALDEEN
1139953 VIDEHA M. A. R. V . V . WIJESINGHE
1139930 MOKSHA J. A. M. SIRIMANNE
1139785 DINESH F. D. EMMANUEL
THE THIRD SCHEDULE
Maximum salary point would be as stipulated in the Salary Ranges in Schedule I.
1150080 NIRMALA W. P. N.  FERNANDO
1150131 SUNIL J. A. S. C. DIAS
1150081 DEEPIKA R. N. D. JAYASINGHE
1150129 GAMINI W. P. G. ARIYARATNE
1150136 GUNATILAKA  A. T. GUNATILAKA
THE FOURTH SCHEDULE
(1). ( a) The benefits of the Scheme will accrue to the employee but will cover those persons specified in Clause 14(iii) of  the
Agreement. It shall be the duty of the employee to enroll members of his family immediately on becoming eligible to be
included in this Scheme.
No reimbursements will be made in respect of members of the family who have not been enrolled.

<!-- page 18 -->

18A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'06'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.06.2013
(2). Reimbursements will only be effected on hospitalization involving at least one night’s stay in a hospital.
(3) The Bank must be notified promptly, and in any event not later than on the first business day following admission to
hospital.
(4) The Bank will be entitled to take out Insurance Policies covering reimbursements under this Scheme and the employee shall
be required to make declarations (including completion and signing of Insurance Proposal forms) and submit documentation required by
Bank/Insurers in a proper form and timely manner to enable the Bank to obtain reimbursement from the Insurance Companies. The Bank will
advise by internal circular issued from time to time the documentary requirements and time limits within which documents should  be
submitted. Where an employee does not comply, he will not be entitled benefits under this Scheme.
(5) Employees shall uphold the principle of uberrima fides when making declarations and submitting claims under this Scheme
and any deviation would disqualify the employee from received any benefit under this Scheme. In addition, the employee will be liable to
disciplinary action in accordance with provisions set out in this Agreement.
(6). ( a) The bank will circulate by internal circular published from time to time a list of hospitals/nursing homes, expenses
incurred at which, will be eligible for reimbursement under the Scheme. Additions and/or deletions to this list will also
be made by internal circular.
(b) If for reasons of geographical location any employee belives he may not be in a position to use any of the Institutions
given in the list, he may apply to the Bank in writing within 30 days of publication of the list of amendments to the list
referred to in the preceding sub-paragraph, requesting special dispensation to use a named Institution or Institutions
and the Bank shall consider such application on a case by case basis and, where deemed appropriate, will grant such
special dispensation, provided however, that the decision of the Bank on this matter shall be final and conclusive.
(7) Exclusions
The Scheme shall not cover benefits/expenses:
(a) Arising from an injury sustained or a sickness contracted outside Sri Lanka or for treatment outside Sri Lanka.
(b) Occasioned by or happening through
(i) The participation by the employee or other eligible family members in War, Invasion, Act of Foreign Enemy,
Hostilities (whether war be declared or not), Civil War, Rebellion, Revolution, Insurrection, Mutiny or Usurped
Power, Military, Popular Rising or while serving as a member of any Defence, Police, Security Force, Home Guard etc.
(ii) Attempted suicide, Alcoholism, V enereal Disease, Insanity and Illnesses resulting from Acquired Immune Deficiency
Syndrome.
(iii) Normal childbirth or pregnancy subject to clause 14(iv). Provided that if an employee has been employed  for a
continuous period of twelve months, the Bank will pay the medical expenses incurred for any abnormality of
maternity which is in excess of what a normal childbirth would have cost. The responsibility for furnishing the Bank
with the required proof of the extra cost involved, such as a letter from the Doctor/Hospital, will be on the employee
who makes the claim.
(iv) Earthquake, V olcanic Eruption or Tidal Wave.
(c) Incurred whilst  traveling in an aircraft other than as a ticket holding passenger in a fully licensed standard type of civil
aircraft operated by a recognized Airlines on a regular route or in a fully licensed standard type of civil aircraft having two
or more engines operated by a recognized Air Charter Company or owned  by a Commercial or Industrial firm and piloted
by a Pilot holding a Commercial Pilot's License.
(d) In respect of Eye Tests or Dental Treatment.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'06'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.06.2013
19A
(e) Arising from any physical defect or infirmity which existed prior to confirmation in the Bank's service.
(8) The benefits under this Scheme shall not be cumulative and the words ''any one Year'' in Clause 14(iii) of the Agreement shall
be deemed to be the period 1st January to 31st December. In the case of employees who join during the course of  a year the
overall limit and event limit upto the period ending the next 31st December will  be pro-rated to the number of full months of
service upto 31st December.
(9) In respect of claims for hospitalization which span the end of any year, reimbursement  will  be made out of the entitlement  of
either or both years, subject, however, to the event limit specified in Clause 14(iii) of the Agreement.
THE FIFTH SCHEDULE
The parties agree to the following conditions in relation to the use of Computer Based Banking Technology by the Bank covered and
bound by this Agreement.
(1) (a) In selecting computers and related equipment, the Bank will attempt to  obtain equipment which will insure the following.
(i) Screens that give  clear stable images.
(ii) Proper sitting of keyboards so as to ensure the reduction of stress and improved maneuverability.
(iii) Equipment which is quiet in operation so that the level of noise is kept to a reasonable limit.
(b) The Bank will undertake proper servicing and maintenance to insure optimum functioning of computers and related
equipment.
The Bank will pay attention to the proper positioning of screens, keyboards and provide facilities for placing documents
and ancillary equipment in a manner to facilitate the work of employees. The Bank will also endeavour to provide lighting
facilities  to minimize visual fatigue in the operation of VDUs.
(2) Accepting the fact that continuous work at a terminate by a data entry operator causes a certain amount of strain, the Bank is
agreeable to a reasonable pause in entering information at or about the end of each period of 2 hours so long as there is no
disruption of the smooth flow of work and so long as such pause does not exceed 10 minutes.
(3) The Bank agrees that they will not seek to retrench employees who become redundant solely and exclusively in consequence
of the introduction of new Computer Banking Technology. Instead, the Bank may avail itself of any one or more of the
following options.
(a) The aforementioned excess employees may be transferred to other sections/departments to perform work which is within
their skill and capacity without reduction in salary and allowances which are in force at such time in relation to such
employees. This option refers to a transfer other than  within the scope of employment which the Bank would under
normal circumstances be entitled to effect.
(b) The Bank may, on a transfer within the scope of (a) above, re-train an employee if the employers consider it necessary.
(c) The Bank will be entitled to negotiate with employees who are redundant for the reasons contemplated in this Agreement,
with a view to achieving a cessation of employment on terms mutually agreed upon and this will not amount to retrench-
ment within the meaning of this Schedule.
(4) For the purpose of this Agreement, retrenchment will mean an involuntary termination of the employees made redundant
consequent upon the introduction of new Computer Based Banking T echnology. It will not include a situation where such
redundant employees voluntarily leave the service of the employer on terms mutually agreed upon.

<!-- page 20 -->

20A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'06'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.06.2013
In witness hereof the said parties have set their hands hereunto on this Sixteenth day of August 2012 at Colombo.
06 – 690
PRINTED A T THE DEP ARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA
