

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of November 02, 2017
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 08.11.2017)
 LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONS (AMENDMENT)
A
BILL
to amend the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance (Chapter 262)
Ordered to be published by the Minister of Provincial Councils and
Local Government
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 12.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT
Clause 2 : This clause amends section 65 AA of the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance
(Chapter 262) and the legal effect of the section as amended is to cause consistency between
the Sinhala and English drafts.

<!-- page 3 -->

1 Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)
2—PL 010429—  475 (11/2017)
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
L.D.—O. 55/2017
AN ACT TO AMEND THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONS ORDINANCE
(CHAPTER 262)
BE it  enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Local Authorities
Elections (Amendment) Act, No.       of 2017.
2. Section 65 AA  of the Local Authority Elections
Ordinance (Chapter 262) is hereby amended as follows:—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words and figures, “under subsection (3) of
section 65(3) and such number of members so
elected do not include any women members, then
the provisions of subsections (3) and (4) of this
section shall not apply to such recognized political
party or independent group.” of the words and
figures, “under subsection (3) of section 65 B and
such number of members so elected do not include
any women members, then the provisions of
subsections (3) and (4) of this section shall not
apply to such recognized political party or
independent group.”;
(2) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution
for the words and figures, “and has less than three
members elected or returned, then the provisions of
subsections (3) and (4) of this section shall not
apply to such recognized political party or
independent group.” of the words and figures,
“and has less than three members elected or returned,
then the provisions of subsections (3) and (4) of
this section shall not apply to such recognized
political party or independent group.”;
Amendment
of section
65
AA of
Chapter 262.

<!-- page 4 -->

2  Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)
5
10
15
20
(3) in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitution
for the words and figure, “The apportionment of
women members” and “subsection (2) of this
section” respectively, of the words and figure, “The
apportionment of women members” and
“subsection (2) of this section”, respectively;
(4) in subsection (4) of that section, by the substitution
for the words and figure, “the shortfall in the number
of members shall be returned from among the
women candidates in the first nomination paper or
the additional nomination paper other than the
women condidates who have been elected or are
disqualified to be a member under section 9.” of
the words and figure, “the shortfall in the number
of members shall be returned from among the
women candidates in the first nomination paper or
the additional nomination paper other than the
women candidates who have been elected or are
disqualified to be a member under  section 9.”; and
(5)  by the repeal of the marginal note to that section,
and the substitution therefor of the following:—
“Apportionment of women members.”.
3. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 5 -->

3 Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)