

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.11.2013
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1837$8 - 2013 fkdjeïn¾ ui 19 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2013'11'19
No.  1837/ 8  - TUESDAY ,  NOVEMBER  19,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk. 1A
SRI  LANKA  NURSING  SERVICE  MINUTE
THE following Minute on the Nursing Officers’ Service is substituted without prejudice to any action taken or purported to
have been taken in terms of  the Minute on the Nursing Officers’ Service published in the Gazette extraordinary No 1684/18
dated 14.12.2010 of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the amendments made to it time to time.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
Dr. Y . D. N
IHAL JAY ATHILAKA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health
Ministry of Health,
No.385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
19 th November 2013.
Ministry of Health
SRI  LANKA  NURSING  SERVICE  MINUTE
01. Details of Appointing Authority  :
1.1 Appointing Authority  -
(a) Sri Lanka Nursing Service Grade III, - Secretary to the Ministry of Health to whom the
II,I and Supra Grade power  is vested with by the Public Service
Commission
(b) Sri Lanka Nursing Service Special Grade - Public Service Commission
(c)  Sri Lanka Nursing Service - Public Service Commission
Executive Grade
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.11.2013
2A
02. Category of service  :
2.1 Category of service - ( a) Officers in the Sri Lanka Nursing Service
(b) Officers in the Special Grade in the Sri Lanka Nursing Service
(c) Officers in the Executive Grade of the Sri Lanka Nursing Service
2.2 Grades
(a) Sri Lanka Nursing Service
Grade III
Grade II
Grade I
Supra Grade
(b) Special Grade of the Sri Lanka Nursing Service
(c) Executive Grade of the  Sri Lanka Nursing Service
2.3 General Definition of the duties assigned :
A process consists of duties especially assigned on the basis of scientific principles by identifying basic
human needs, and assisting or facilitating functions which are helpful for the smooth functioning in the
fields of Health care (hospitals and clinical) services, community/mental Nursing services, Nursing education
services and specialized /Research Nursing services in order to perform functions which are for the prevention
of diseases , improvement of Health, rescue from pain and rehabilitation.
03. Nature of the Post  -  Permanent and Pensionable
04. Salaries  :
4.1 Salary Code -
(a) Grade III, II, I and Supra Grade - MT 7 – 2006 - A
(b) Special Grade - MT 8 – 2006 A
(c) Executive Grade - SL-1-2006
4.2 Salary Scale
(a) Rs. 15,620 – 4 X 180 – 6 X  240 – 11 X 320 – 20 X 360 -
(b) Rs. 28,500
(c) Rs. 24,180 – 10 X 650 – 8 X 790 - Rs.37,000
Rs. 22,935- 10X645-8X790-17X1050- Rs.53,555

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.11.2013
3A
4.3 Initial Salary Steps relevant to Grade system
Grade Salary Scale Salary Step
Rs.
III Step 01 of MT 7 – 2006 – A 15,620
II Step 12 of MT 7 – 2006 – A 18,100
I Step 23 of MT 7 – 2006 – A 21,660
Supra Grade Step 34 of MT 7 – 2006 – A 25,620
Special S tep 04 of MT 8 – 2006 – A 26,130
Executive Step 01 of SL-1-2006 22,935
Note.- During the period of training it will be paid a monthly allowance of Rs. 12,920 in the first year, Rs. 13,040 in
the second year and Rs. 13,160 from the third year. At the recruitment to the Grade III of the Nursing service at the
end of the training they will be placed on the initial salary step of the salary scale applicable to that grade.   (These
allowances may change as per the circulars issued from time to time.)
05. Post / Posts belonging to the service Category :
5.1 Approved Designations, Number of Posts and Duties Assigned to each
Post :
Approved designations Approved grades Approved Number
of Posts
Staff Nurse Sri Lanka Nursing Service III ,II ,I, 20105
Supra grade
Staff Nurse Grade I(Hospital Services) Sri Lanka Nursing Service grade I 801
Staff Nurse Grade I(Education) Sri Lanka Nursing Service grade I 218
Staff Nurse Grade I(Public Health) Sri Lanka Nursing Service grade I 59
Staff Nurse Special Grade(Hospital Services) Sri Lanka Nursing Service Special grade 174
Staff Nurse Special Grade(Education) Sri Lanka Nursing Service Special grade 60
Staff Nurse Special Grade(Public Health) Sri Lanka Nursing Service Special grade 4
Nursing Principals in the Nursing Education Sri Lanka Nursing Service Special grade 19
Field
Director(Nursing Education, Nursing Public Sri Lanka Nursing Service Executive 03
Health, Nursing Medical Services) Grade
5.2 Number of combined officers
(a) Staff Nurse – Grade III, II, I and  Supra Grade - 20105
(b) Staff Nurse Grade I (Hospital services,education,public health) - 1078
(c) Special Grade :
(i) Special Grade Nursing Officer(Hospital Services, Education, Public Health) - 238
(ii) Nursing Principals in the Nursing Education Field - 19
(d) Executive GradeDirector(Nursing Education, Nursing Public Health, Nursing - 03
6.2. Recruitment for the student nursing training :

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.11.2013
4A
06. Scheme of recruitment
6.1. Rate of recruitment
Stream Percentage
Open 100%
Limited -
Merit -
6.2.1 Recruitment on the G .C.E. (A/L) qualifications
75% of the annual training requirement will be selected from the applicants who are applied based on
the G .C.E.(A/L) results. Selected candidates will be enrolled to the full time Nursing Diploma course.
(The period of training will be decided on the decision of the committee appointed in terms of Cabinet
Decision No 
wum /10/2604/415/179 of 10.11.2010)    The candidates so enrolled will be appointed to the
vacancies of the post of  Staff Nurse Grade III in the Sri Lanka Nursing Service after passing the
examination held at the end of the Pupil Nurses Training.
6.2.2 Recruitment on  the Bachelor of Science (Nursing) degree
25% of the annual training requirement will be selected from the applicants who are applied based on
the Bachelor of Science (Nursing)Degree. Selected candidates will be enrolled to the 06 months
orientation and coordination training. The candidates so enrolled will be appointed to the vacancies
of the post of Staff Nurse Grade III in the Sri Lanka Nursing Service after passing the examination held
at the end of the course.
6.2.3 Qualifications :
6.2.3.1 Educational/professional qualifications :
6.2.3.1.1 Recruitment on the results of G.C.E.(A/L) Examination
Should have passed all subjects in Biology/ Mathematics /Agriculture stream of the
science stream.(except Common General Test) in one sitting at the G .C.E. (A/L)
Examination or should have passed three (03) Subjects of the old syllabus in one
sitting.
And
Should have passed 6 subjects in not more than two sitting with 04 credit passes for
Sinhala/Tamil Language ,Mathematics ,Science and English at the G .C.E.(O/L)
examination.
6.2.3.1.2 Recruitment on the Bachelor of Science (Nursing)Degree
Should have Completed Bachelor of Science(Nursing)Degree in an institution
recognized by  University Grants Commission.
6.2.3.2 Physical Qualifications :
(i) Every candidate should be physically fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Height should not be less than 04 feet, 10 inches (4’ 10").
(iii) Should be physically fit enough to discharge duties assigned to the post.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.11.2013
5A
6.2.3.3 Other
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(ii) Should be unmarried.This is not applicable to those who  apply based on the B.Sc.(Nursing)
Degree .
(iii) Should be excellent in character
(iv) Both males and females can apply.
(v) 5% out of the total number of recruitments will be for males.  However the percentage of
recruitment of males can be changed from time to time on exigency of service subject to a
maximum of 5%.
(vi) Date of qualification. – All the qualifications given in above  6.2.3.  should have been
fulfilled in all respect as at the date  mentioned in the notification of  calling applications.
And the candidate should submit copies of the relevant certificates with their application
in order  to  confirm their qualifications.
6.2.3.4 Age
Minimum age Limit - 18 years
Maximum age Limit - 28 years
6.2.4 Method of recruitment :
6.2.4.1. Recruitment  on results of the G.C.E.(A/L) Examination in a certain Year.
` The Number of recruits will be divided  in proportion to the number of  students applied from
each subject stream i.e .Biology, Mathematic and Agriculture in the year concerned and eligible
persons will be selected on district basis from the applicants who have obtained the highest Z
– score from each subject stream.
6.2.4.2. Recruitment  on results of  the G .C.E.(A/L) Examination in  two or  more years
The Number of recruits will be divided in proportion to the number applied in each year. Then
the number prescribed to be recruited in each year will be divided in proportion to the number
of students who apply from Biology, Mathematic and Agriculture streams in the respective
year and eligible persons will be selected  on district basis from the applicants who have
obtained highest Z- score.
6.2.4.3. Recruiting Based on the BSc (Nursing) Degree
Applicants should sit a written competitive examination of 01 hour which will consist of
questions to test the General Knowledge and Intelligence and the applicants who obtain the
highest merits  will be recruited on the merit basis if they have satisfied all the other
qualifications. 5%  out of the total number of recruitments will be for males.  However the
percentage of recruitment of males can differ from time to time on exigency of service subject
to the maximum of 5%.
6.2.4.4. General Interview (marks will not be given)
Objectives expected to be achieved-  To verify whether the qualifications mentioned in the
Gazette notification published in terms of the recruitment procedure have been fulfilled and the
physical fitness.
6.2.4.4.1 Appointing authority of the General Interview Board- Health Secretary
Note : The Number of candidates to be called for the Interview will be decided by the
appointing  authority as the case may be .

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.11.2013
6A
6.2.5 Method of calling applications – By a Government gazette Notification  or advertisements published
in newspapers and  the website
07. Recruitment Grade – Grade III
Educational /Professional Qualifications
Should have been selected by the Ministry of Health for the training and successfully completed the Nursing
Diploma Course of 03 years as a Nursing Student at a Nursing Training School under the Ministry of Health .
or
Should have obtained the B.Sc. Nursing Degree from a institute recognized by the University Grant Commission and
successfully completed the orientation and co-ordination Course of six months conducted by the Ministry of Health .
08. Efficiency Bar Examinations:
8.1
Efficiency Bar Examination Before how many years the Efficiency Bar Nature of Efficiency
Bar Examination should be passed Bar Written Test /
Professional Test
certificate Course
 / Other
1
st Efficiency Bar Examination Before completion of 3 years after recruitment to Grade III See Schedule I
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination Before completion of 3 years after promotion to Grade II See Schedule II
3rd Efficiency Bar Examination Before completion of 5 years after promotion to Grade I See Schedule III
8.2 How often is the Efficiency Bar Examinations held? Twice a Year
8.3 The authority who is conducting the Efficiency Bar Examination – Health Secretary
09 Proficiency in Official Languages  :
9.1
Language Proficiency Grade Proficiency to be obtained
01. Official Language III Pr oficiency in an official language should be obtained during the period of
probation in case an officer entered the service in a medium other than an
official language.
02. Other  Official Language III The relevant level of language proficiency should be obtained in terms of
Public Administration Circular No.07/2007 and incidental circulars.
10. Promotion of Grades :
10.1 Promotion from Grade III to Grade II
10.1.1 On General Performance
10.1.1.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled  -
(i) Should have been confirmed in the post of Grade III (A letter of confirmation in the post
should have been issued)

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.11.2013
7A
(ii) Should have completed an active and satisfactory service period of 10 years in Grade
III service category and should have earned 10 salary increments prescribed for the
relevant period.
(iii) Should have shown a performance to the satisfactory level or higher than  that within
10 years immediately prior to promotion in terms of approved  procedure of performance
appraisal.
(iv) Should have passed 1
st Efficiency Bar Examination by the prescribed date
(v) Should have obtained relevant level of proficiency in the Other Official Language
(vi) Should have completed a satisfactory service period within 05 years immediately prior
to the date of promotion.
10.1.1.2 Method of Promotion  -
When an application, in accordance with the prescribed form for promotion to Grade II, is
submitted  to the appointing authority by qualified officers, promotions will be granted after
scrutinizing qualifications by the appointing  authority with effect from the date on which
the officer qualifies.
10.2 Promotion from Grade II to Grade I
10.2.1 On General Performance :
10.2.1.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled :
(i) Should have completed an active and satisfactory service period of 10 years in Grade II
as at the date on which he/she qualifies for promotion and should have earned 10
salary increments prescribed for the relevant period.
(ii) Should have shown a performance to the satisfactory level or higher than that within
10 years immediately prior to the promotion in terms of approved procedure for
performance appraisal.
(iii) Should have passed Second Efficiency Bar Examination by the prescribed date.
(iv) Should have completed a of satisfactory service period  within 05 years immediately
prior the date of promotion.
10.2.1.2 Method of Promotion :
When an application, in accordance with the prescribed form is submitted  to the appointing
authority by qualified officers, promotions will be granted after scrutinizing qualifications
by the appointing  authority with effect from the date on which the officer qualifies.
10.3 Promotion to the Supra Grade in the Nursing Service :
10.3.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled -
(i) Should have completed an active and satisfactory service period of 10 years in Grade I in the
nursing service as at the date on which he/she qualifies for promotion and should have earned
10 salary increments prescribed for the relevant period ;
(ii) Should have shown a performance to the satisfactory level or higher than that within 10 years
immediately prior to the promotion in terms of the approved procedure for performance
appraisal ;
5 — PG  1832

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.11.2013
8A
(iii) Should have passed third Efficiency Bar Examination by the prescribed date.
(iv) Should have completed a satisfactory service period  within 05 years immediately prior the date
of promotion.
10.3.2 Method of  Promotion -
When an application in accordance with the prescribed form, is submitted  to the appointing authority
by qualified officers, promotions to the supra grade in the nursing service will be granted after
scrutinizing qualifications by the appointing  authority with effect from the date on which the officer
qualifies.
Note:
In case of promotion on general performance ,the promotion date of the officers who have not
passed Efficiency Bar Examination as at the prescribed date, should be held off for a period equal to
the delayed period to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination.
10.4 Promotion to the Special Grade in the Nursing Service
10.4.1 Qualifications to  be fulfilled
(i) Should have completed an active and satisfactory service  period during the 5 years immediately
prior to the promotion and should have earned all salary increments during the relevant period.
(ii) Should have shown a performance to the satisfactory level or higher than that during 5 years
immediately prior to promotion in terms of approved procedure for performance appraisal.
(iii) Should have completed a service period of 5 years in a post of Grade I Nursing officer (Hospital
Services ,Education, Public  Health) after following 1 ½ years Diploma which includes ward
management and supervision  /teaching and supervision/public health nursing and midwifery/
psychiatric conducted by the National Institute for Nursing Education/Post Basic Nursing
School.
10.4.2 Method of Promotion
Promotions will be granted ,considering the number of vacancies by the Appointing Authority after
scrutinizing the qualifications by a general interview board approved by the Public Service
commission.
Note : (i) An applicant will be considered to have satisfied the qualifications required to appear for the
interview for promoting to Special Grade only if the applicant has satisfied the qualifications
mentioned in 10.4.1 above in all respects as at the date mentioned in the notification of calling
application. Copies of the certificates should be attached to the application in proof the
qualifications.
(ii) The number of applicants who will be called for the interview will be decided by the appointing
authority according to the date of appointment to the post of  Grade I Nursing Officer(Education
,Hospital Services/Public Health) considering seniority ,order of merits  at the final examination
for appointing to Grade I in Nursing Service held by the National institute of Nursing Education/
Post Basic Nursing Training and the number of vacancies existing.
(iii) Promotion will be granted twice per year considering the number of vacancies exist in the
Special Grade by 01
st of January and 30th  of June in each year.
(iv) Promo tion of an officer who has been promoted in the Special Grade will be cancelled in case
he/she does not  assume duties in the relevant post within two weeks after appointment to a
post mentioned under 11.1 (b),(c),(d),(e)

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.11.2013
9A
11. Appointment to Posts
11.1 Qu alifications
Post Qualifications
(a) Grade I  Nursing Officer (i) Should be an officer in Grade II or Grade I  or supra Grade
 (Education, Hospital Services, Public
Health)  (ii) Should be an officer who has followed and passed the 1 ½ years Diploma
which includes Ward Management and Supervision  /Teaching and
Supervision/Public Health Nursing and Midwifery/ psychiatric
conducted by the National Institute for Nursing Education /Post Basic
Nursing School.
(iii) Should have earned all prescribed salary increments within preceding
05 years and should have completed an active and satisfactory service
period.
(iv) Should have shown a performance to the satisfactory level or higher
than that during 5 years immediately prior to promotion in terms of
approved procedure for performance appraisal.
(b) Special Grade Nursing Officer (i) Should be an officer in  special grade
( Education, Hospital Services,
Public Health) (ii) Should have earned all prescribed salary increments within proceeding
05 years and should have completed an active and satisfactory service
period.
(iii) Should have shown a performance to the satisfactory level or higher
than that during 5 years immediately prior to promotion in terms of
approved procedure for performance appraisal
(c) Special Grade Nursing Tutor(Public (i) Should be a special grade Nursing Officer(Public Health)
Health) (ii) Should have earned all prescribed salary increments within preceding
05 years and should have completed an active and satisfactory service
period.
(iii) Should have shown a performance to the satisfactory level or higher
than that during 5 years immediately prior to promotion in terms of
approved procedure for performance appraisal.
(iv) Completed the 06  months training as nursing tutor conducted by
National Institute of Health Science
(d) Regional Supervising Public Health (i) Should be a special grade Nursing Officer(Pubic Health)
Nursing  Officer(RSPHNO) (ii) Should have earned all prescribed salary increments within preceding 5
years and should have completed an active and satisfactory service
period.
(iii) Should have shown a performance to the satisfactory level or higher
than that during 5 years immediately prior to promotion in terms of
approved procedure for performance appraisal.
(e) Nursing  Principal (i) Should be  a special Grade nursing officer (Education)
(ii) Should have earned all prescribed salary increments within preceding 5
years and should have completed an active and satisfactory service
period.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.11.2013
10A
(iii) Should have shown a performance to the satisfactory level or higher
than that during 5 years immediately prior to promotion in terms of
approved procedure for performance appraisal
(f) Director (Nursing Medical Services) (i) Should be a special grade nursing officer (Hospital service) and should
have at least 05 years active and satisfactory service period in the relevant
post
(g) Director (Nursing Public Health) (i) Should be a special grade nursing officer (Public Health) and should
have at least 05 years active and satisfactory service period in the relevant
post.
(h) Director (Nursing Education) (i) Should be a special grade nursing officer(Education) and should have
at least 05 years active and satisfactory service period in the relevant
post.
11.2 Method of Selection
(a) (1) Appointing to the posts of Grade 1 Nursing officer (Hospital Service)
In order to  fill 35% of the existing  vacancies a written competitive examination will be held to select
officers from those who are in Grade II,Grade I and Supra Grade and possess the following qualifications
for following the Diploma Course mentioned in 11.1 (a) (ii) above. Syllabus of the examination is given in
schedule  iv
(i) Should have earned all prescribed salary increments and completed and active and satisfactory
service period within the preceding 05 years.
(ii) Should  have shown a performance higher than the satisfactory level according to the approved
performance procedure within the five (05)  years prior to the date of promotions.
(iii) Should not be above 48 years.
A number of officers equivalent to the number of existing vacancies will be selected from those who
obtain the highest marks at the written competitive examination, according to the merit list to follow
the diploma course and the officers who are successful at the course will be appointed to the posts
based on the number of vacancies existing.
In order to fill the other  65% of vacancies, a structured interview which will consider the seniority
, merit, fitness, work and conduct of the officers who are in Grade II, Grade I and Super Grade and
possess the following qualifications will be held by an interview board approved by Health Secretary
and the successful officers will be selected to follow the Diploma Course mentioned in 11.1(a)
above.  Marking scheme relevant to the interview is  given in schedule V .
(i) Should have earned all prescribed salary increments and completed an active and satisfactory
service period within the preceding 05 years.
(ii) Should Have shown a performance higher than the satisfactory level according to the approval
performance procedure within the five (05)  years prior to the date of promotions.
(iii) Should not be above 48 years.
Post Qualifications

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.11.2013
11A
Note :
(1) Written competitive examination and the structured interview will be held   once a
year considering  the number of  vacancies existing relevant to the post of  Grade I
Nursing Officer (Hospital Services)
(2) When an officers selected to follow the Diploma Course mentioned in 11.1(a)(ii)
should enter into an agreement with the Director General of Health Services prior to
the commencement of the training.
(3) When an officer who is selected to follow the Diploma Course mentioned in 11.1(a)(ii)
is appointed to a post mentioned in 11.1 (a) after the training period, the officer is
required to report to the duties of the relevant posts within two weeks of such
appointment.  The officers who do not so assume duties or not completed the
training should pay the bonded sum and they will be reversed to their previous
posts.
(2)  Appointing to the posts of  Grade 1 Nursing Officer(Educational and Public Health)
In order to  fill 50% of the existing  vacancies a written competitive examination will be held to select officers from
those who are in Grade II ,Grade I and Supra Grade and possess the following qualifications for following the Diploma Course
mentioned in 11.1 (a) (ii) above. Syllabus of the examination is given in schedule iv
(i) Should have earned all prescribed salary increments and completed and active and satisfactory service
period within the preceding 05 years.
(ii) Should  have shown a performance higher than the satisfactory level according to the approved performance
procedure within the five (05)  years prior to the date of promotions.
(iii) Should not be above 48 years.
A number of officers equivalent to the number of existing vacancies will be selected from those who obtain the
highest marks at the written competitive examination, according to the merit list to follow the Diploma Course and the officers
who are successful at the course will be appointed to the posts based on the number of vacancies existing.
In order to fill the other 50% of vacancies, a structured interview which will consider the seniority , merit, fitness,
work and conduct of the officers who are in Grade II, Grade I and Super Grade and possess the following qualifications will
be held by an interview board approved by Health Secretary and the successful officers will be selected to follow the Diploma
Course mentioned in 11.1(a) above.  Marking scheme relevant to the interview is given in schedule V . The other 50% of the
vacancies are filled from the officers who are successful at the interview.
(i) Should have earned all prescribed salary increments and completed an active and satisfactory service period
within the preceding 05 years.
(ii) Should have shown a performance higher than the satisfactory level according to the approved performance
procedure within the five (05)  years prior to the date of promotion.
(iii) Should not be above 48 years.
Note:
(1) Written competitive examination and the structured interview will be held   once a year considering
the number of  existing vacancies relevant to the post of Grade I Nursing Officer(Educational and
Public Health)

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.11.2013
12A
(2) Officers selected to follow the Diploma Course mention in 11.1(a)(ii) should enter into an agreement
with the Director General of Health Services prior to the commencement of the training.
(3) When an officer  who is selected to follow the Diploma Course mentioned in 11.1(a)(ii)  is appointed
to a post mentioned in 11.1 (a) after the training period, the officer is required to report to the
duties of the relevant posts within two weeks of such appointment.  The officers who do not so
assume duties or not completed the training should pay the bonded sum and they will be reversed
to their previous posts.
(4) Female applicants only can apply for the post of Grade 1Nursing officer (Public Health)
(b) Appointing to the posts of Special Grade Nursing Officer (Educational, Hospital Services, Public Health)
The eligible persons will be selected from the Nursing officers of Special Grade who possess the mentioned
qualifications in 11.1 (b) above.
Note : (i) Appointments will be given considering the seniority according to the date of promotion to
the post of staff nursing officer grade I(Educational l, Hospital Service ,Public Health), order of
the merits obtained at the final examination of National Institute of Health/Post Basic Nursing
training course and the number of vacancies existing.
(ii) The officers appointed to the post of Special Grade Nursing Officer should follow a Diploma
Course of six months in Management  from a Government Recognized Institution.
(iii) Vacancies of the post of Special Grade Nursing officer will be filled twice a year conducting a
General Interview considering the number of vacancies existing as at 1
st of January and 30th of
June in each year.
(c ) Appointing to the post of Special Grade Nursing Tutor  (Public Health)
In order  to fill the existing vacancies a structured interview will be held by an interview board approved by
the Public Service Commission to select officers from Grade I Nursing Officers(Public Health) for following
the training course for Nursing Tutor  mentioned in 11.1 (c) (v) above. Marking scheme relevant to the
interview is given in schedule vi. A number of officers equivalent to the number of existing vacancies will be
selected from those who obtain the highest marks at the interview according to the merit list to follow the
Training Course for Nursing Tutor which is of six months.
(1) The structured interview will be held once a year  considering the number of vacancies existing
relevant to the post of Special Grade Nursing Tutor (Public Health)
(2) Officer selected to follow the Course mentioned in 11.1 (c) (v) should enter into an agreement with the
Director General of Health Service prior to the commencement of the training.
(3) When an officer who is selected to follow the Course mentioned in 11.1(c)(v) is appointed to a post
mentioned in 11.1(c) after the training  period, the officer is required to report to duties of the relevant
post within two weeks of such appointed .The officers who do not so assume duties and not completed
the training should pay the bonded sum and they will be reversed to their previous posts.
(d) Appointing to the posts of Regional Supervising Public Health Nursing Officer (RSPHNO)
Eligible persons will be selected from the officers of Special Grade who possess the qualifications mentioned
in 11.1(b) above.
Note: Appointments will be given considering the seniority according to the date of promotion to the post
of Grade I nursing officer (Public Health), order of merits obtained at the final examination of the
National Institute of Health Science/ Post Basic nursing training course and the number of vacancies
existing.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.11.2013
13A
 (e) Appointing to the post of Nursing Principal
A structured interview will be held by an interview board approved by the Public Service Commission to
select eligible persons from the officers who are in Special Grade and possess the qualifications given in
section 11.1 (e) .Marking scheme relevant to the interview is given in schedule vii. Transfers are not allowed
for this post and an officer serving as a principal of a Nursing School could be appointed as a principal of
another Nursing School only   by applying for the post when the relevant vacancy is gazetted.
(f) Director (Nursing Medical Services)
A structured interview will be held by an  interview board approved by the Public Service Commission to
select eligible person from the officers who are in Special Grade and possess the qualifications mentioned in
section 11.1 (f) above and the qualifications given below. Marking scheme relevant to the interview is given
in schedule viii.
(i) Should have earned all prescribed salary increments and completed an active and satisfactory service
period within the preceding 05 years.
(ii) Should have shown a performance higher than the satisfactory level according to the approval
performance procedure within the five (05)  years prior to the date of promotion.
(g) Director (Nursing Public Health)
A Structured interview will be held by an  interview board approved by the Public Service Commission to
select eligible person from the officers who are in Special Grade and possess the qualifications mentioned in
selection 11.1 (g) above and qualifications given below. Marking scheme relevant to the interview is given
in schedule ix.
(i) Should have earned all prescribed salary increments and completed an active and satisfactory service
period within the preceding 05 years.
(ii) Should have shown a performance higher than the satisfactory level according to the approved
performance procedure within the five (05)  years prior to the date of promotion.
(h)  Director (Nursing Education)
A Structured interview will be held by an  interview board approved by the Public Service Commission to
select eligible person from the officers who are in Special Grade and possess the qualifications mentioned in
selection 11.1 (g) above and qualifications given below. Marking scheme relevant to the interview is given
in schedule x.
(i) Should have earned all prescribed salary increments and completed an active and satisfactory service
period within the preceding 05 years.
(ii) Should have shown a performance higher than the satisfactory level according to the approved
performance procedure within the five (05) years prior to the date of promotion.
12. Provisions of the Establishment Code and the general conditions in the procedural rules of the Public  Service
Commission published in the extra ordinary Gazette No.1539/30 dated 20.02.2009 of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka will be relevant to every appointments
13. (a) Training for Student Nurses
(i) Training for student nurses will be conducted in nursing schools  island wide
(ii)  Training of the trainees who fail the prescribed examinations within the training period or whose
studies and conduct are not satisfactory or who fail to abide by the laws and rules of nursing schools
in terms of the conditions relevant to examinations and leave may be terminated at any time.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.11.2013
14A
(iii) Should remain single within the period of training.
(iv) Should undergo a government medical examination and submit a report before commencement of the
training.
(v) Student nurses who successfully complete the training for student nurses will  be qualified to be
appointed to the vacancies of Grade II in the service
(b) In service Training
The professional knowledge will be promoted continuously through In-service conducted from time to time.
These training courses will provide professional development requirements of all Nursing Officers both
male and female.
(14)  Agreements
(1) After successful completion of the training, if a trainee is appointed to a vacancy of Grade III in Nursing
service s based on the vacancies existing he/she should enter into an agreement with the Director General of
Health Services to serve the government for 10 years. This agreement should be entered into within the first
month of the training and the trainees who leave the training should compulsorily pay the bonded sum
(which will be decided by the Secretary from time to time) and the allowances received upto then.
(2) After successful completion of the training, if the graduates enrolled for the orientation and coordination
course of six months conducted by the Ministry of Health are appointed to a post of Grade III in nursing
service they should enter into an agreement with the Director General of Health Services that they serve the
government for a period of 05 years.
(3) An officer who is selected for the training for  Grade I Nursing Officer (Education ,Hospital Services, Public
Health) should enter into an agreement with the Director General of Health Service that he/she will complete
the training successfully and will assume duties in the relevant post within two weeks from the appointment
after the training.
(4) An officer who is selected for the training for  Special Grade Nursing Tutor (Public Health) should enter into
an agreement with the Director General of Health Services that he/she will complete the training successfully
and will assume duties in the relevant post within two weeks from the appointment after the training.
(15)  Definitions :
(i) “Gazette “ means the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(ii)  “Prescribed date “ means the date prescribed for satisfying the qualifications.
(iii) “Student nurse” means a person recruited under the provisions of this procedure and is being trained
(iv)  “Nursing Officer” means a person who has followed a continuous Nursing Diploma course at a government
Nursing school and registered with the Sri Lanka Medical Council/ Sri Lanka Nursing Council after passing
the final examination thereof.
(v) “Active service period” means the period of service the officer was actually engaged in duties receiving the
salary relevant to his/her post. Except the government approved maternity leave, all the other no pay leave
periods are not counted for the active service period.
(vi)  “Staff Nurse” means an officer who has followed the Nursing Diploma Course successfully at a Government
Nursing school and registered with the Sri Lanka Medical Council/Sri Lanka Nursing Council after passing
the final examination thereof and does not mean student nurses. This is a designation only and does not
bear the meaning of staff grade. As per the salary circular 6/2006 of the Public Administration circulars, posts
at the secondary level which are assigned with supervisory functions, posts at the tertiary level and all posts
of the senior level fall within the staff grade.
(vii) “Secretary “ means the Secretary of the line Ministry in charge of the subject of Health.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.11.2013
15A
(16) In recruiting to Grade III of this post for a particular year the number of recruitments should be the number of
vacancies existing as at 30th of June of the same year.
(17) Recruitment and grade promotion :
Recruitment to service/posts, appointment and grade promotion should be done only according to the methods
given in this procedure.
 (18) Appointing Authority
(a) Grade I of Sri Lanka Nursing service (Hospital Services, Educational, Public Health) – Secretary to the
Ministry of Health authorized by Public Service Commission
(b) Special Grade of Sri Lanka Nursing Service (Hospital Services, Educational, Public Health)- Public Service
Commission
(c ) Director(Nursing Educational, Nursing Public Health , Nursing Medical Services)- Public Services Commission
(19) Absorption :
19.1  Absorption of the officers who are in service as at the prescribed date to the recognized Sri Lanka Nursing
Service as follows
(i)  Officers in Grade III in the  service into Grade III in the new minute ,officers in Grade II A in the service
into Grade II in the new minute
(ii) Officers in the Grade I in the service into Grade I in the new minute
(iii) Officers in Grade I in the service who have completed an active service period of 10 years and the
officers who have earned 10 salary increments prescribed for Grade I into supra Grade.
(iv) Officers in the post of Special Grade in the service into the posts of Special Grade( Educational, Hospital
Services, Public Health)
No prejudice will be caused due to the absorption for the officers in terms of the seniority of being in the
relevant classes /grades as at the prescribed date.
19.2 Salary of the officers on absorption to the service
Salary or the increment date will not change due to the absorption of an officer into new grade III who was
in grade II B, Into grade II who was grade II A, into new grade I who was in grade I or into new special grade
who was in special grade as at the prescribed date under the existed Minute.
(20)  Interim provisions
The interim period will be from 01.11.2010 to 01.01.2016 . Provisions of the new minute shall have fully effect after
01.01.2016. It should be act as follows within the interim period.
20.1 Efficiency Bar
20.1.1 1
st Efficiency Bar
The provision that the nursing officers recruited as nursing officers of Grade II B or Nursing officers of
Grade III or absorbed as Nursing Officers of Grade III should pass the first efficiency Bar Examination
published during the period 03 years (probationary period ) from the date of first appointment will have the
same effect within the interim period.
20.1.2 2
nd Efficiency Bar
20.1.2.1. Officers who have been absorbed or promoted to Grade II are qualified to sit this examination

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.11.2013
16A
20.1.2.2. Nursing officers who have completed an active service period of 06years under segment II (A) as
at 01.11.2010 under the old nursing service minute will be exempted from the requirement of
passing  the 2
nd  Efficiency Bar Examination.
20.1.2.3  It is compulsory  for all the other Nursing officers in  Grade II to pass the 2 nd  Efficiency Bar
Examination and they will be granted a relief period  of 03 years from 01.11.2010 on which date  this
Service Minute comes into  effect or the date of promotion to grade II, which will come later.
20.1.2.4  In case of the Nursing officers who completed active service period of 05 years from the date of
first appointment  and the officers who satisfy all the other qualifications required to be promoted
to segment II A according to the old Nursing Service Minute , during the interim period will be
qualified to sit this examination after being promoted to grade II and they will be granted a relief
period of 03 years from the date mentioned in the letter of promotion to pass the second Efficiency
Bar Examination.
20.1.3. 3
rd Efficiency Bar
20.1.3.1  Officers in the posts of grade I Nursing Officer(Hospital  services/Educational/Public Health )
and the officers promoted to /absorbed into Grade I  are qualified to sit this examination .
20.1.3.2. From the officers who are absorbed into grade I, the nursing officers  who have completed  on
active Service period of 5 years in  Grade I as at 01.11.2010  will be exempted   from the 3 rd
Efficiency Bar examination.  And  also the nursing officers who are in the posts of Grade I Nursing
Officer.(Hospital services/Education/Public Health ) after following diploma course of 1,1/2 years
the Post Basic nursing  school (National Institute of Nursing Education) will be    exempted  from
the 3 rd Efficiency Bar examination
20.1.3.3. From the nursing officers absorbed  in to Grade I ,the nursing officers  who have an  active Service
period  less than 5 years in Grade I  as at 01.11.2010 will be granted a relief period of 5 years either
from 01.11.2010 on which date this service minute comes into effect or the date of  promotion to
grade I ,which will come after the other.
20.1.3.4. All officers promoted to grade I after 01.11.2010 should sit the 3
rd
 Efficiency Bar Examination
20.2.  Grade promotion
20.2.1 Recruitment to Grade III
Recruitments shall be accordance with the provisions of the new Nursing Service Minute.
20.2.2. Promotion to Grade II from Grade III
Officers who complete an active period of 05 years in Grade II and satisfy all the other qualifications
required according the old Nursing Service Minute will be promoted to Grade II from the date on
which they complete a service period of 05 years or satisfy the other qualification required , which
will come after the other. Officers who satisfy the qualifications after the interim period will be
granted promotions in accordance with the provisions of the New Service Minute. Herein, the
service period in segment II(B) in the old service minute will be considered as a period of service in
Grade III in the New Service Minute.
20.2.3. Promotion  to Grade I from Grade II
Officers  who complete an active service period of 10 years during the interim  period  will  be
promoted to Grade I. Herein ,the Service period in segment II (A) will be Considered as a  period of
service Grade II in the New Service Minute . After the interim period  promotions will be granted in
accordance with the provisions of the New Service Minute .In case the date which an officer completes
the service period of 10 years happens to be a date prior to 01.11.2010 such officer will be promoted
to Grade I from 01.11.2010

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.11.2013
17A
20.3. Appointment to posts
20.3.1 Appointment to the post of  Grade I Nursing Officer.(Hospital service/public health   ,Education )
Appointments shall be in accordance with the provisions of the new Nursing Service Minute.
Grade I nursing Officer(Education) and Grade I nursing Officer(Public Health) will be recruited
only by a  competitive examination.
For the posts of Grade I nursing officer ( Hospital service ) ,35% will be selected  on the results of
a limited competitive examination and 65% will be selected from the nursing officers in  Grade II ,
Grade I and supra Grade on their seniority.
20.3.2. Appointment into posts of Special Grade
During the interim period promotions shall be in accordance with this Service Minute subject to
20.1.3 above
21. This Nursing Service Minute of Sri Lanka shall have effect from 01.11.2010
22. In addition to the requirements mentioned in this Minute , officers should obtain the proficiencies and skills as
decided and prescribed by the government from time to time.
All officers in Sri Lanka Nursing service shall subject to the General Orders of the government, provisions of the Establishment
Code of Democratic Socialist Republic Of Sri Lanka, the general conditions in the procedural rules of the Public Service
Commission  and Financial regulations and General Regulations of the government which are in force for the time being.
Note: Decision of the Public Service Commission shall be conclusive with regard to the matters not provided by this Minute.
In case of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this service Minute the text in Sinhala will
prevail.
SCHEDULE  I
01ST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION for OFFICERS GRADE III IN THE NURSING SERVICE
01. Should answer in the same language medium applied for the Training as a student nurse before recruitment to the
    post.
02. Nursing Officers (Grade III) in the service are eligible to apply for the examination.
03. Permitted to sit the examination for all subject at one sitting or separately in several sittings.
04. Candidates should secure minimum of 40%marks for a subject to pass the examination.
05. The examination consist of two question papers as given below :-
Establishments Code - Question paper of 03 hours (Marks 100).
Candidates should answer 05 questions out of the 08 essay type questions
Financial Regulations - Question Paper of 03 hours (Marks 100)
Candidates should answer 05 questions out of the 08 essay type questions.
Syllabus
(i) Establishments Code :
A written question paper to test the knowledge of the contents in chapter II,III, VII, VIII, XII, XIII, XVII, XVIII,
XXII, XXIII, XXV of the Establishments Code.
(ii) Financial Regulations :
A written examination paper to test the knowledge of the contents in Financial Regulations from 01 to 157.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.11.2013
18A
SCHEDULE  II
2ND EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINIATION FOR THE II NURSING OFFICERS (GRADE II) IN THE NURSING SERVICE
01. should answer in the same language applied for the training as a Student Nurse before recruitment to the post.
02. Officers in  Grade II in the Nursing Service are eligible to sit for this examination.
03. Candidates are permitted to sit for all the subjects at the one sitting or separately in several times.
04. Should secure minimum of 40% mark for each subject to have a pass.
05. The examinations consist of two question papers as follows :
(I) Theoretical knowledge in Nursing - 03 hours
100 Marks
(II) W ard Management - 03 hours
100 Marks
Syllabus -
(I) Theoretical knowledge in Nursing :
* Surgical Nursing
* Medical Nursing
* Pediatric Nursing
(II) W ard Management :
* Patient Care Management
* 5’s concept
* Action Plan – Monthly / Annual
SCHEDULE  III
03RD  EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINIATION FOR THE NURSING OFFICERS (GRADE I) IN THE NURSING SERVICE
01. Should answer in the same language medium applied for training as a Student Nurse before recruitment to the
post.
02. Nursing Officers in the Grade I of the post are eligible to sit the examination. Nurses who have followed 1,1/2
years diploma course of the Post Basic nursing  school (National Institute of Nursing Education ) and in grade I posts.(Hospital
services/Education/Public Health ) will be    exempted  from the 3 rd Efficiency Bar examination.
03.Candidates are permitted to sit for the examination for all subjects at the same sitting or separately at several times
04. Candidates should secure a minimum 40% marks for each subject to have a pass.
05.The examinations consists of two question papers as follows
I. General Management - 03 hours
100 Marks
II. General Nursing - 03 hours
100 Marks

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.11.2013
19A
Syllabus
01. General management :
* Patient Care Plan
* Monitoring and supervision of staff
* Delegation of duties
* Leadership
* Human Resource management
02. General Nursing
* Primary Health Care (Relevant to 17 facts)
* Preventive Health and Health Promotion
* Educational Scheme of Principles
* Nursing Research Principles
* Ward Management
* Communication
* Team Work Concept
* Staff Development
SCHEDULE  IV
STRUCTURE OF THE EXAMINATION
01. Name of the Examination :
Selection for the training to appoint as Staff Nursing Officers Grade I (Hospital services, Education, Public Health)
02. Details of the Examinations :
Three Examinations for the 03 fields.
Question Paper Duration T otal Passed
Marks Marks
Simple essay writing 01 hour 100% 40%
Timely tendencies of Nursing 02 hour 100% 40%
English Language 1 1/2 hour 100% 40% Relevant to the officers who apply for the post of
Grade I Nursing Officer (Education)
03. Examination Authority  -  Secretary
04. How frequent the examination is held will be decided by the Secretary considering the number of vacancies
existing and the requirement.
05. Syllabus of the examination :
Question Paper Syllabus
Simple essay writing This question paper includes an essay writing.
Timely tendencies on Nursing Test the knowledge of a Nurse on General Nursing.
English Language Question paper at the level of G.C.E.(O/L) examination
SCHEDULE  III (Contd.)

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.11.2013
20A
SCHEDULE  V
MARKING SCHEME FOR SELECTION ON SENIORITY AND MERIT FOR TRAINING TO BE APPOINTED AS GRADE I NURSING OFFICER
(HOSPITAL SERVICE/EDUCATION/PUBLIC HEALTH) IN THE NURSING SERVICE
01. Seniority - Maximum Marks 80
08 points for each year in  Grade II, Grade I and Supra Grade in the Nursing
 Service.
02. Merit - Maximum Marks 20
(i) For a degree recognized by the University Grant Commission - 05 points
(ii) For a diploma obtained from an institution recognized by the Secretary of - 03 points
Health
(iii) Special activities - 12 points
02points are given for every special activity and the interview board will decide the special activities
relevant to the field concerned for which mark should be given.
Total - 100 points
SCHEDULE  VI
MARKING SCHEME FOR SELECTION ON SENIORITY AND MERIT FOR THE TRAINING OF 06 MONTHS TO APPOINT AS SPECIAL GRADE NURSING
TUTOR(PUBLIC HEALTH)  IN  NURSING SERVICE
01. Seniority - Maximum Marks 80
05 points for the service of each year after the service of 07 years in a post of
Grade I Nursing Officer (Public Health)
02. Merit - Maximum Marks 20
(i) For a degree recognized by the University Grant Commission - 05 points
(ii) 02 po ints are given for each year for the service in a training center - 06 points
(iii) For performance appraisal - 09 points
Excellent  - 09
Above the average level-07
Average – 05
Marks which should be given with regard to the performance appraisals will
be decided by the Interview  Board
Total - 100 points
SCHEDULE  VII
MARKING SCHEME FOR SELECTING OF SENIORITY AND MERIT TO APPOINT AS NURSING PRINCIPAL
1. Seniority in the Special Grade - 50 points
2. Experience in the post of Nursing principal - 20 points
3. For Special Merits -  10 points
4. Professional Qualifications -  15 Points
5. Interview -  05 points
Total -  100 points

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.11.2013
21A
Note:  At the time of calling applications for recruitments , Secretary of the Ministry of Health should get a marking
scheme which is within the limits of maximum marks with regard to the main areas for which marks are allocated in the table
above approved by the public Service Commission for the structured interview.
SCHEDULE  VIII
MARKING SCHEME FOR SELECTING OF SENIORITY AND MERIT TO APPOINT AS THE DIRECTOR ( NURSING MEDICAL SERVICES)
1. Seniority in the Special Grade in Nursing Service
 (Hospital Service) - 30 points
2. Experience in  Nursing service (Hospital Services) - 30 points
3. Educational Qualifications of the relevant field -  25 points
4. Other extra activities relevant to the field -  10 Points
5. At the discretion of the interview board, Merits,Leadership, attitudes, personality, and -  05 points
communication skills
Total -  100 points
Note:  At the time of calling applications for recruitments , Secretary of the Ministry of Health should get a marking
scheme which is within the limits of maximum marks with regard to the main areas for which marks are allocated in the table
above approved by the public Service Commission for the structured interview.
SCHEDULE  IX
MARKING SCHEME FOR SELECTING OF SENIORITY AND MERIT TO APPOINT AS THE DIRECTOR ( NURSING EDUCATION)
1. Seniority in the Special Grade  in Nursing Service(Education) - points
2. Experience in  Nursing service(Education) -  30 points
3. Educational Qualifications of relevant field -  25 points
4. Other extra activities relevant to the field -  10 Points
5. At the discretion of the interview board, Merits ,Leadership, attitudes, personality, and  - 05 Points
communication skills
Total -  100 points
Note : At the time of calling applications for recruitments , Secretary of the Ministry of Health should get a marking
scheme which is within the limits of maximum marks with regard to the main areas for which marks are allocated in the table
above approved by the public Service Commission for the structured interview.
SCHEDULE  X
MARKING SCHEME FOR SELECTING ON SENIORITY AND MERIT TO APPOINT AS THE DIRECTOR ( NURSING PUBLIC HEALTH)
1. Seniority in the Special Grade in Nursing Service(Public Health) -  30 points
2. Experience in  Nursing  service (Public Health) -  30 points
3. Educational Qualifications of the  relevant field -  25 points
4. Other extra activities relevant to the field -  10 Points
5. At the discretion of the interview board, Merits ,Leadership,attitudes, personality, and - 05 Points
communication skills
Total -  100 points
Note: At the time of calling applications for recruitments , Secretary of the Ministry of Health should get a
marking scheme which is within the limits of maximum marks with regard to the main areas for which marks are allocated in the
table above approved by the public Service Commission for the structured interview.
12 - 59
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.
SCHEDULE VII  (Contd.)