

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
GRANT OF CITIZENSHIP TO PERSONS OF
INDIAN ORIGIN (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 6 OF 2009
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 18th February, 2009]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 4.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 20, 2009

<!-- page 2 -->

1Grant of Citizenship to Persons of Indian Origin
(Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2009
[Certified on 18th February, 2009]
L.D.—O. 62/2007.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  G RANT  OF  CITIZENSHIP TO  PERSONS  OF  INDIAN
O RIGIN  ACT , NO . 35 OF  2003
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Grant of Citizenship
to Persons of Indian Origin (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of  2009.
2. Section 2 of the Grant of Citizenship to persons of
Indian Origin Act No. 35 of 2003 (hereinafter referred to as
the “principal enactment”) is hereby amended —
(1) by the substitution for the words “shall be
granted the status of a citizen of Sri Lanka” of the
words “shall have the status of a citizen of Sri Lanka”;
and
(2) by the repeal of the proviso thereof, and the
substitution therefor, of the following :—
“Provided however, where on the date of the
coming into operation of this Act, a permanent
resident referred to above, holds an Indian Passport
or other similar document, such person’s status of a
citizen of Sri Lanka shall be effective only on his
forwarding to the Commissioner a declaration in
the special form of Declaration set out in the
Schedule, stating his intention to voluntarily acquire
citizenship of Sri Lanka and upon such Declaration
being acknowledged by the Commissioner in
writing.”.
Short title.
Amendment of
section 2 of Act,
No. 35 of 2003.

<!-- page 3 -->

Grant of Citizenship to Persons of Indian Origin
(Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2009
2
3. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 2 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 2
A  of such enactment :—
2A . Notwithstanding the provisions of
section 2, any person who was a permanent
resident of Sri Lanka with Indian Origin since
October 30, 1964 or a descendent of such person,
who due to circumstances beyond the control
of such person—
(a) was compelled to leave Sri Lank; and
(b) thereupon took up residence in India;
and who consequently had as at the day
immediately preceding the date of the coming
into operation of this Act, been unable to comply
with the requirements of section 2, shall, if such
person  is able to submit proof that such person
was a  permanent resident of Sri Lanka with
Indian Origin since October 30, 1964 or is a
descendant of a person who has been a
permanent resident of Sri Lanka with Indian
origin since October 30, 1964, have the status
of a citizen of  Sri Lanka with effect from the
date of commencement of this Act and shall be
entitled to all the rights and privileges to which
a citizen of Sri Lanka is entitled to by law:
Provided howerer, where on the date of the
coming into operation of this Act, any person
referred to above, holds an Indian Passport or
other similar document, such person’s status of
a citizen of Sri Lanka, shall be effective only on
his forwarding to the Commissioner a
Declaration in the special form of Declaration
“Grant of
Citizenship to
certain
persons.
Insertion of
section 2
A  in the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Grant of Citizenship to Persons of Indian Origin
(Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2009
Amendment of
section 4 of the
principal
enactment.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
set out in the Schedule, stating his intention to
voluntarily acquire citizenship of Sri Lanka and
upon such declaration being acknowledged by
the Commissioner in writing.”.
4. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) thereof—
(1) by the substitution for the words and figures “by
virtue of the provisions of section 2”, of the words
and figures “by virtue of the provisions of section 2
or 2
A ”; and
(2) by the substitution for the words “Form set out in
the same Schedule.”, of the words and figures “Form
set out in the same Schedule :
Provided however, any person who is entitled to
the status of a citizen of Sri Lanka under the
provision of section 2
A , shall apply for a Certificate
of Citizenship under this Act, only upon his arrival
in Sri Lanka with the intention of permanently
residing in Sri Lanka.”.
5. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

<!-- page 5 -->

Grant of Citizenship to Persons of Indian Origin
(Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2009
4
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.