

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2019.01.23
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.01.2019
Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
¡ºø —ïÊË  EXTRAORDINARY
¡â¨ 2107/32 – 2019 ckjdß 23 jeks nÞÞ – 2019'01'23
No. 2107/32 – WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2019
( Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government  Notifications
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G 29309 – 15 (2019/01)
My No. : CI/ 1763.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Noritake Lanka Porcelain (Pvt) Ltd. No. 580, Negombo Road, Mabole, Wattala of the one
part and the Inter Company Employees Union, No. 259/9,  Sethsiri Mawatha, Koswatta,Thalangama of the other part on 18 th of May, 2018
is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised
Edition 1956).
A. WIMALAWEERA.
Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
27th December, 2018.


<!-- page 2 -->

2A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2019.01.23
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.01.2019
COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
NORITAKE  LANKA  PORCELAIN ( PVT) LIMITED
AND
INTER  COMPANY  EMPLOYEES  UNION
OF
18th  MAY  2018
Collective  Agreement  No. 21  of  2018

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2019.01.23
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.01.2019
COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT entered into on this 18th day of May,  Two Thousand and Eighteen (2018) between  Noritake Lanka
Porcelain (Pvt) Ltd., a Company duly registered and having its registered office at No. 580, Negombo Road, Mabole, Wattala, (hereinafter
referred to as “ the Employer”) of  the One part and between Inter Company Employees Union, a Trade Union duly registered and having
its registered office at No. 259/9, Sethsiri Mawatha, Koswatte, Thalangame (hereinafter referred to as “ the Union”) of the Other part.
WITNESSETH and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows :
Title : This Collective Agreement shall be known and referred to as the ‘’Noritake Lanka Porcelain (Pvt) Ltd. - Collective Agreement
2018".
1. Parties Covered and Bound.– The terms of this  Agreement shall cover and bind the Employer, the Unions and the members of
the Unions employed on permanent monthly contracts by the Employer in the Manual/ Operative grades in the Company and are in
employment at the time of signing of this Agreement.
2. Date of Operation and Duration.–  This Collective  Agreement shall be effective from the 01st day of  April 2018 and shall
continue to be in force unless it is terminated by either party giving One month’s notice to the other party, in writing provided however, that
no such notice shall be given by either party, prior to the  28 th day of February 2021 and such notice shall not take effect and this Agreement
shall not stand terminated prior to the 31 st day of March 2021.
Any notice given by a party prior to the 28th day February 2021 shall have no effect whatsoever.
3. This Agreement shall supersede and replace the provisions of all the Collective Agreements signed between parties prior to this
Agreement coming into operation.
4. Salary Increase  –.  4 (a) The Employer agrees to revise basic salary point  of the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement
in the following manner :
Service 1st year 2nd year 3rd year
Period (01.04.2018 - (01.04.2019 - (01.04.2020 - Total
31.03.2019) 31.03.2020) 31.03.2021)
0 -10 years 7% 7% 6.5% 20.5%
11-20 years 9% 7.5% 7% 23.5%
21-25 years 10% 8.5% 8% 26.5%
26 and above 11% 9% 8.5% 28.5%
 
4 (b) An employee’s completed number of years of service as at  01st April  of each and every year will be taken into consideration
in deciding the service period for the above salary increase.
4 (C) As notional arrears employees will receive a sum representing the amount added to the salary of each individual employee by
virtue of clause 4 (a) hereof multiplied by two (Salary increase X 2). This lump sum payment by way of notional arrears will
attract consequential payments such as Overtime, Provident Fund, Trust Fund etc. and the Employer agrees to pay the notional
arrears to the employees on or before 30th June 2018.
4 (d) The Union together with the employees agree that they shall not during the pendency  of this Agreement make any demands for
wage increases or related allowances/Payments or make any further demands of any financial nature over and above those stated
in the agreement.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2019.01.23
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.01.2019
5. Cost of Living Allowance .- The employees covered and bound by this Agreement will receive an increase of  Cost of Living
Allowance as follows:
With effect from 1st April 2018 - Rs. 400/-
With effect from 1st April 2019 - Rs. 450/-
With effect from 1st April 2020 - Rs. 450/-
The arrears of the Cost of Living Allowance (Rs. 400/- X 2) will be added to the arrears payment referred to in Sub - clause 4 (c)
above and paid to employees on or before 30th June 2018.
6. The Unions, together with their members, hereby undertake that during the period of operation of this Agreement, they shall
extend their fullest co-operation to the Company to carry out all its lawful activities.
7. If during the continuance in force of this Agreement, the Government prescribes increases in salary by any written law, applicable
to the Company, the Employer shall be entitled to take credit for the increases granted in terms of this Agreement. However, if the Government
recommends increases in wages, such recommendations will not be applicable to the employer and the Employees.
8. Shift Allowance.– The Shift Allowance will be in the following manner.
Shift
2 p.m. - 10 p.m. Rs. 100/-
4 a.m. - 12 noon Rs. 125/-
10 p.m. - 6 a.m. Rs. 175/-
9. Attendence Incentive:– An increase of Rs. 100/- to the Attendence Incentive will be granted with effect from 01st April 2019.
10. Leave.– The Leave entitlement for employees covered by this Agreement will be as per the leave granted at present which is
stated in the letter of appointment.
11. Suspension. –
(1) An employee may be suspended without pay by the Employer.-
(a) Pending an inquiry to be held by such Employer on a charge or charges of misconduct where such charge or charges
may result in termination of the services of the Employee ;
(b) In order to avoid a breach of the peace or intimidation of witnesses or damage to property/ evidence or disturbance of
the business of the Employer;
(c) As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding Fourteen (14) working days after due inquiry
(2) At the time of suspension under Sub-Clause (1) (a) or within twenty four (24) hours thereof the Employer shall provide
the Employee with a written order of suspension specifying the reasons for such suspension and thereafter hold an inquiry
into the charge or charges in  terms of Clause 12 hereof.
12. Disciplinary Procedure.– Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an Employee then -
(1) Irrespective of whether an Employee has been suspended under Clause 10 hereof or not, the Employee  shall be furnished
with a show cause notice which shall set out the particulars of the charge or charges of misconduct alleged against such
Employee, and such show - cause notice shall give the Employee not less than three (03) clear working days in which to
give the answer or explanation to the charge or charges preferred.
(2)  Within three (03) clear working days after the date of the show cause notice, the employee shall furnish in writing to the
employer the answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such employee. Provided however, that if in the
circumstances it is reasonable the employee may ask the employer for an extension of time within which to furnish the
written answer or explanation to the show - cause notice and where such request is made by an employee to the employer,
the employer shall grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the
case.
(3)  If the Employer is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the employee, the employee, shall  if he is under
suspension forthwith be reinstated and shall be paid all  wages and entitlements due for the period of such suspension.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2019.01.23
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.01.2019
(4) If the Employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the employee to the show - cause notice  and such
answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within fourteen (14) working
days from the date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice. The Union can represent
the Employee at the disciplinary inquiry.
(5) After holding such inquiry, the employer shall notify the employee of the findings on each of the charges in the show -
cause notice and the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if only Employer fails to make an order
except for reasons beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in the show - cause notice within Forty (40) working
days from the conclusion of the inquiry into such charges, the employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in
respect of such charges and no inference adverse to the employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such
charges.
(6) If the employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes order that .-
(a) the employee shall not be dismissed then the employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall subject to the
provisions of Sub - clause 11 (1) (c)  hereof, be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of suspension
irrespective of such other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the findings as to
the charges in the show - cause notice ;
(b) the employee shall be dismissed-the employee’s dismissal shall take effect from the date of the  the Employee’s
suspension and accordingly the employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension ;
(c) In view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show - cause notice against the employee, the Employer
is unable to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police or other
authorities for further investigations or inquiries and that the matter be therefore, referred to the Police or other
authorities or if in view of the serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the employee, the matter had
been previously referred to the Police or other authorities for investigations or inquiries that the outcome of such
investigations or inquiries be awaited, then in either such circumstances, the employee may remain suspended
without pay.
(7) In any case where an Employee is suspended as provided herein the Employer shall make an order under Paragraphs (a)
to (c) of Sub-clause (6) within Six months (6)  of the date of suspension of the employee unless he is prevented from so
doing by reason of the employee’s own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreed between
the Employer and the Employee / Union that in the circumstances of the case, the period of six months (06) be extended for
such further time as may be agreed.
(8) An Employer shall not be required to hold an Inquiry as referred to in Sub -  clauses (4) and (5) hereof where the Employer
proposes to warn the Employee or where the employee admits to the charge or charges.
(9) However, the above procedure may be changed or amended at the discretion of the Employer, depending on exceptional
circumstances in consultation with the Unions.
13. The Employer, the Unions and the employees covered and bound by this Agreement undertake that they shall not during the
continuance of this Agreement seek to vary, alter or add to any of the terms and conditions agreed upon herein, other than by mutual agreement,
and the Unions shall not resort to any form of Trade Union action in relation to any dispute connected with or arising out  of any matter covered
by this Agreement.
14. In the event of a dispute arising out of a matter not covered by this Agreement, parties agree to resolve any such dispute in the
following manner:-
(a) Firstly, the Branch and the Management would attempt to settle such issue/ dispute at the Company level. A written
statement of the dispute shall be forwarded by the Unions/ Branch Committee/s to the Employer / and at least three weeks
given for the employer to resolve the dispute.
(b) In the event of non-resolution of the dispute at Stage (a) above, parties agree to meet at The Employer’s Federation of
Ceylon (EFC) in order to resolve such dispute within 14 days after such matter is referred to the EFC by the Parent Union.
(c) In the event of non-resolution  of the dispute at Stage (b) above, parties agree to resolve the relevant dispute in accordance
with the conciliation proceedings, in terms of the Provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2019.01.23
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.01.2019
(d) In the event of non-resolution of the dispute at Stage (c) above, the Unions agree that they would give 14 days prior notice,
in writing, before engaging in any Trade Union action.
(e) However, if in the opinion of the controlling body of the Unions, a dispute has been caused by an act of the Employer,
which is mala fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence of the Unions or is seriously
detrimental to the interests of the Unions, Trade Union action may be resorted to by the Unions without following the
procedure laid down above provided, however, that at least seven (7) days written notice shall be given by the Unions to
the Employer and the Commissioner-General of Labour.
15. The terms and conditions presently applicable to the employees covered and bound by this Agreement will  remain unchanged
during the period of this Agreement.
In witness hereof, parties have set their hands on this 18th day of May, Two Thousand and Eighteen at Colombo.
02 - 277
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA