

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.02.2013
13
wxl 1797$27 - 2013 fmnrjdß ui 15 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'02'15
No. 1797/27  - FRIDAY ,  FEBRUARY 15,  2013
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
THE  CIVIL  A VIATION  ACT,  No. 14  OF  2010
Order Under Section 6
APPOINTMENT  OF  SERVICE  PROVIDERS
BY  virtue of powers vested in me as the Minister of Civil Aviation under Section 6 of the Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010,
I Piyankara Jayaratne, do hereby appoint, subject to the terms and conditions stipulated in the Schedule - I hereto, the
Statutory Service Provider appointed under the aforementioned Act, and published in the Extraordinary Government
Gazette Notification Number 1727/12 dated 13th October 2011 as the Service Provider for providing the Aeronautical Services
as specified in the Schedule - II hereto.
P
IYANKARA JAYARATNE,
Minister of Civil Aviation.
14th  February, 2013.
SCHEDULE - I
TERMS  AND  CONDITIONS  OF  APPOINTMENT
1. In providing the Aeronautical Services specified in Schedule - II, the Statutory Service Provider shall conform to
the applicable legal provisions in the Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010 and Regulations, Rules or Implementing Standards
made thereunder or any other written law ;
2. The Statutory Service Provider shall comply with any general or special directions given by the Minister in
writing from time to time as to the discharge of functions of the Statutory Service Provider ;
3. The statutory Service Provider shall maintain in good order all movable and immovable properties which it holds
for and on behalf of the State for the wellbeing and development of air transport industry and shall not grant such immovable
property on lease to a third party for any period in excess of ten (10) years without prior consent in writing from the secretary
to the Ministry  of the Minister ;
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013 .02.15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.02.2013
2A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.
This Gazette could be downloaded on www.documents.gov.lk
4. Every contract entered into by the Statutory Service Provider after the date hereof in respect of any Aeronautical
Service provided by the Statutory Service Provider, shall unless there is express provision to the contrary in the terms of such
contract, be deemed to be a contract entered into by the Statutory Service Provider on his own behalf and not on behalf of
the State and shall not bind the State in any manner ;
5. On demand by the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in writing, the Statutory Service Provider shall furnish
to the Secretary, with all relevant information concerning any administrative, operational, technical or financial matters
pertaining to the aeronautical services provided ;
6. The Statutory Service Provider shall comply with the applicable requirements stipulated by the Civil Aviation
Authority of Sri Lanka or Director General of Civil Aviation as the case may be and obtain requisite licences or certificates as
applicable, for provision of aeronautical services specified in the Schedule - II ensuring that such services are maintained in
conformity with the applicable international standards and recommended practices ;
7. The Statutory Service Provider shall not alter, suspend or stop provision of any aeronautical service mentioned
in Schedule - II without approval from the Minister in writing ;
8. It is the duty of the Statutory Service Provider to arrange a sufficient insurance cover to meet the potential
liabilities or compensations that may arise during its operations and the State will not be liable for such liabilities or
compensation ;
9.The change of corporate identity, share capital or name of the Statutory Service Provider requires prior approval
of the Minister in writing ;
10. The Statutory Service Provider shall not transfer or sublease provision of any of the aeronautical services
specified in Schedule - II without written approval by the Minister.
SCHEDULE - II
Aeronautical Services to be Provided by the Statutory Service Provider
1. The Development, operation and maintenance of ;
(i) Bandaranaike International Airport, Colombo in the Western Province ;
(ii) Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport in the Southern Province ;
(iii) Colombo Airport, Ratmalana, in the Western Province ;
and any other aerodrome to be specified by the Minister in terms of an Order published in the Gazette from
time to time.
2. The Provision and maintenance of Search, Rescue and Firefighting Services at the aerodromes specified in (1)
above and at any other aerodrome to be specified by the Minister in terms of and Order published in the Gazette from time
to time.
3. The provision and maintenance of Aviation Security service at the aerodromes specified in (1) above and at any
other aerodrome to be specified by the Minister in terms of an Order published in the Gazette from time to time.
4. The provision of Air Traffic Services.
5. The provision of Aeronautical Information Services.
6. The provision of Aeronautical Communication Services.
7. The provision of Aeronautical Aids for Communication, Navigation or Surveillance.
03 - 266