

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1521
1521
wxl 1"824 - 2013 wf.daia;= 16 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'08'16
No. 1,824 – FRIDAY AUGUST 16, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1524
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1535
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 06th September, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 23rd
August, 2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— The Catalogue of Books printed Quarterly in January to March, 2011 registered under the Printers and Publishers ordinance has
been published in Part V of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1522
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1523
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1524
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
AMPARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 16th Sep tember,
2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
25th July, 2013.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Ampara Akkaraipattu Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Karunkodithivu Division General, District Secretariat,
Ampara.
Ampara Pottuwil Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Pottuwil Division General, District Secretariat,
Ampara.
08–472
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
AMPARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1525
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 16th Sep tember,
2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
25th July, 2013.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Ampara Irakkamam Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Sammanthura Pattu (10A, 11A Grama General, District Secretariat,
Wannamai) Division. Ampara.
08–471
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
GALLE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1526
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 16th Sep tember,
2013.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
23rd July, 2013.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Galle Galle Four Gravets Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Talapitiya Area in Galle District General, District Secretariat,
Division. Galle.
08–462
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium
MULLAITIVU   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 23rd Sep tember,
2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
01st August, 2013.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1527
THE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Mullaitivu Oddusuddan Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of The District Secretary/The Additional
Katsilaimadu Division and Marriages Registrar General, District Secretariat,
(General) of Oddusuddan Division (Tamil) Mullaitivu.
08–631
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KEGALLE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 23rd Sep tember,
2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
01st August, 2013.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kegalle Ruwanwella Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kannaththota Area in Koralathuna and General, District Secretariat,
Pathabulathgama Division Keg alle.
08–630

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1528
MINISTRY  OF  ECONOMIC  AND  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Agrarian Development
AGRARIAN TRIBUNAL – 2013/2016
BEING the Commissioner General of Agrarian Development
applications are invited by me to appointing 25 numbers of Agrarian
Tribunals for the three years under the Act of Agrarian Development
Act, No. 46 of 2000 as amended by Act, No. 46 of 2011 applications
should be prepared in accordance with the specimen application
shown below. The words "Agrarian Tribunal" should be written on
the top left hand corner of the envelope in which the application is
enclosed and be sent in registered post to reach the Department of
Agrarian Development on or before 18th of Septmeber, 2013.
Photocopies of the certificates should also be attached with the
application. The applications which are not in conformity with the
specimen given and the delayed applications will be rejected.
02. Method of Recruitment. – Among applicants who have the
stipulated qualifications in the notice and who obtains the highest
marks shall be selected for the vacancies after an interview held by an
interview board appointed by the Secretary of the Ministry of
Economic Development.
03. Age limit.– Below 70 years.
04. Eligibility :
1. More than 7 years experience as retired judge.
2. Retired government officer with 7 years service of
executive level in the Agrarian service sector.
05. Number of vacancies.– 25.
06. Duration.– For three years.
07. ( a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(b) Should possess a good character.
08. Applicants should be able to submit the following documents
as and when required :
(a) Birth Certificate,
(b) Service Certificates,
(c) Professional certificates,
(d) Certificates of highest examinations passed in Sinhala/
Tamil/English.
09. All candidates should possess and adequate physical and
mental fitness to fulfill the duties in the post and to serve in any part
of Sri Lanka.
10. This post is entitled to the monthly allowance Rs. 28,740 and
additional allowance Rs. 5,000 per month for transport.
M. A. S. W
EERASINGHE,
Commissioner of the Agrarian Development,
Department of Agrarian Development.
No. 42, Sir Marcus Fernando Mawatha,
Colombo 07,
26th of July, 2013.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION FORM
FOR THE POST OF AGRARIAN TRIBUNAL
DEP ARTMENT OF AGRARIAN DEVELOPMENT
1. Name in full :––––––––––––.
2. Name with initials :––––––––––––.
3. Permanent address :––––––––––––.
4. Address :––––––––––––.
5. Date of birth :
Year :––––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––––.
6. Age :
Years :––––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––––,  Days :––––––––––––.
7. Nationality :––––––––––––.
8. Religion :––––––––––––.
9. Married/Unmarried :––––––––––––.
10. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
11. Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
12. Educational Qualification :––––––––––––.
13. Service Experience :––––––––––––.
14. Professional qualifications :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1529
15. Applicant’s ability to read write and speak of languages :
(Please mark (3) relevant cage)
Reading Writing Speaking
Excellent Good Weak Excellent Good Weak Excellent Good Weak
Sinhala
Tamil
English
16. Does the applicant have knowledge about the Agrarian Development Act ? Yes/No
if Yes, How did you get the knowledge ? :––––––––––––.
17. Are you a retired judge or retired Government Officer ? :––––––––––––.
(Please mark (3) relevant cage)
01 Are you a retired Judge
02 Are you retired Government Officer
18. Your service information :
Service Working period Designation W orking place
From To
19. Value of property possess by the Applicant Rs. :––––––––––––.
20. Your monthly Income :––––––––––––.
21. Have you been involved in active politics in past 10 years ? :––––––––––––.
22. Are you a Tax Payer ? :––––––––––––.
23. Are there any criminal cases against you in any Court ? :––––––––––––.
Have you ever been convicted in any crime in the Court ? :––––––––––––.
24. Give details about the charges of if made by any Court :––––––––––––.
25. Whom can be contacted to find personal information regarding yourself (Who know you well and should respond responsibly should
not be a family member)
(1) (2)
Name :––––––––––––. Name :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––. Address :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––. Designation :––––––––––––.
Telephone Number :––––––––––––. Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
Period known :––––––––––––. Period known :––––––––––––.
I declare that the information given herein are true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
(Please attach the photocopies of all certificates)
08–569

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1530
SRI  LANKA  AIR  FORCE
Officer Vacancies
V ACANCIES exist for Male/Female Commissioned Officers in the
Regular/V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the following
Branches :
(a) Air Field Construction Branch,
(b) Medical Branch,
(c) Administrative Medical Branch,
(d) Dental Branch,
(e) Administrative Legal Branch.
2. Applications are invited from those candidates possessing the
professional qualifications given below :
(a) Air Field Construction Branch :
Civil/Mechanical/Electrical Engineers - Male
(Regular/Volunteer)
* Flight Lieutenant.– BSc in Engineering Specialized in
Civil/Mechanical/Electrical Engineering or equivalent
qualification.
* Those who have successfully completed Part I, II and
awaiting results of Part III examination in BSc in Civil/
Mechanical/Electrical Engineering from a recognized
University of Sri Lanka will be commissioned in the
rank of Flying Officer. They will be given the rank of
Flight Lieutenant on receipt of Academic transcript.
* Flying Officer. – NDT/NDES/HNDE in Civil/
Mechanical/Electrical Engineering or equivalent
qualification with three (3) years post qualification
experience.
* Pilot Officer. – NDT/NDES/HNDE in Civil/
Mechanical/Electrical Engineering or equivalent
qualification with less than three (3) years post
qualification experience.
Material Engineering Officers for Asphalt Plant -
Male (Regular/Volunteer) :
* Flight Lieutenant.– BSc in Engineering Specialized in
Civil or Material Engineering with one (1) year post
qualification experience in an Asphalt Plant and having
ability to handle all quality assurance practices related
to the asphalt productions. The candidates shuld have
thorough knowledge in design of Asphalt mixes and
testing of related material and capability to administrate
multiple site laboratories ; or
BSc specialized in Material Science with two (2) years
post qualification experience in an Asphalt Plant and
having ability to handle all quality assurance practices
related to the asphalt productions. The candidates should
have thorough knowledge in design of Asphalt mixes
and testing of related material and capability to
administrate multiple site laboratories.
* Flying Officer. – NDT/NDES/HNDE in Civil
Engineering and post qualification experience in Asphalt
Plant for three (3) years.
Building Service Engineering Officers - Male
(Regular/Volunteer)
* Temporary Squadron Leader : BSc in Engineering
Specialized in Civil/Mechanical/Electrical Engineering
with MSc in Building Service Engineering with two (2)
years post qualification experience in designing/
developing/Managing new technologies related to
building services including air conditioning, water supply,
sanitation, public health, fire protection, lift and
escalators.
Architects - Male/Female (Regular/V olunteer)
* Temporary Squadron Leader : Chartered Architect
Qualification.
* Flight Lieutenant : MSc arch or B Arch Degree in
University of Moratuwa or equivalent.
Quantity Surveyors – Male/Female (Regular/
Volunteer)
* Flight Lieutenant  : BSc in Quantity Surveying
conducted by the University of Moratuwa or Graduate
member of the Institute of Quantity Surveyors in Sri
Lanka with two (2) years post qualification experience
or Technical member of the Institute of Quantity
Surveyors in Sri Lanka with three (3) years post
qualification experience in the relevant field.
* Flying Officer : Technical member of the Institute of
Quantity Surveyors in Sri Lanka or Successful
completion of National Diploma in Quantity Surveying
conducted by UNIVOTEC Ratmalana with two (2)
years post qualification experience.
Surveyor - Male (Regular/Volunteer)
* Flight Lieutenant : BSc in Surveying Science from
University of Sabaragamuwa or Bachelor Degree from
ISM Diyathalawa.
* Flying Officer : Diploma in Survey from ISM
Diyathalawa.
(b) Medical Branch
Medical Officers - Male/Female (Regular/
Volunteer)
* Flight Lieutenant :  MBBS or equivalent with full
registration with the Sri Lanka Medical Council. The

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1531
selected candidates will be initially employed at the
Defence Services Command and Staff College,
Sapugaskanda.
(c) Administrative Medical Branch :
Physiotherapists - Male/Female (Regular/
Volunteer)
* Flight Lieutenant : BSc in Physiotherapy with full
registration with the Sri Lanka Medical Council.
(d) Dental Branch :
Dental Officers - Male/Female (Regular/
Volunteer)
Flight Lieutenant. – BDS or equivalent with full
registration with the Sri Lanka Medical Council.
Pre-Intern Trainees - Male/Female (Volunteer)
* BDS or Dental Degree equivalent to BDS (Sri Lanka)
from any recognized University of a foreign country,
which is accepted by SLMC. They will be enlisted as
V olunteer Commissioned Officers for a period of 5
years and should qualify the ERPM examination and
SLMC registration within 5 years from the date of
enlistment. The service of the Pre-Intern Trainees who
fail to qualify the above examination will be terminated.
* Selected candidates will be commissioned in the rank
of Flying Officer. After completion of ERPM
examination and with SLMC registration they will be
considered for the rank of Flight Lieutenant.
Dental Students - Male/Female (Regular) :
Pilot Officer : Completed 2nd BDS and beginning of 3rd
year.
Flying Officer : Completed final BDS Part I and studying
in the final year.
Note :
(1) Selected Dental Student candidates will be required to
serve an obligatory period of 10 years from the date of
Commission in the rank of Flight Lieutenant.
(2) Selected students will be released from the Sri Lanka Air
Force until completion of final year. They will be
commissioned in the rank of Flight Lieutenant on
completion of BDS Degree and full registration with the
SLMC.
(3) Opportunities will be granted for Post Graduate studies
depending on the exigencies of the service.
(4) Dental students to submit a certificate from their respective
Universities depicting their year of studies.
(e) Administrative Legal Branch :
Legal Officers - Male/Female (Regular/Volunteer)
* Attorney-at-law of the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka -
Specialized and/or experienced in preparation of
Commercial contracts, Notarial documents,
Memorandum of Understanding, procurement
procedures, Court prosecution and handling
disciplinary matters.
* Selected candidates will be commissioned in the rank
of Squadron Leader or Flight Lieutenant in keeping
with their professional qualification and experience.
3. Other Entry Requirements :
(a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(b) Civil Status : Married/unmarried
(c) Gender : M ale/Female (As applicable)
(d) Age : As at 15th October, 2013
(1) For Air Field Construction, : 18 to 35 years
Medical Dental (Dental
Officers and Pre-Intern
Trainees) and Administrative
Legal Branch Candidates
(2) For Administrative Medical : 18 to 30 years
(Physiotherapists) and
Dental Branch
(Dental Student) Candidates :
(d) Height : Male - 5' 5" and above
: Female - 5' 4" and above
(e) Weight : Body Mass Index should be in
accordance with the Physical
Efficiency Test Standards of the Sri
Lanka Air Force
(g) Chest : Minimum 32" (Male)
(
h) Colour Vision : CP2
Standard
(i) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (With
or without spectacles)
4. Any candidate who may possesses special qualifications may
at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered,
even though he/she may not have the requisite height provided he/
she possesses the requisite professional qualifications.
5. Be medically fit so as to pass such medical examinations as
may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force.
6. Due considerations will be given to current outstanding
achievements in the field of sports.
7. Official Language Requirements.- Selected candidates will be
required to comply with any rules already made or may be made

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1532
hereafter for giving effect to the language policy of the Republic of
Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the provisions in the
Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Selected candidates will be commissioned in the Regular/
V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the rank of Pilot
Officer, Flying Officer, Flight Lieutenant, or Squadron Leader as
applicable in keeping with their qualifications and experience.
9. Selected candidates will be required to undergo training at
such places as decided by the Commander of the Air Force. If at
any time during training, the officer is reported on by the authorities
as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to causes
within his/her control, he/she will be liable to have his/her
commission withdrawn and/or be subject to other disciplinary action
in accordance with the Sri Lanka Air Force Disciplinary Regulations.
10. All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders
issued from time to time.
11. The conditions of service for an officer of the Sri Lanka Air
Force are in terms of Sri Lanka Air Force Regulations published in
Gazette No. 10,240 of 27th April, 1951 and as amended from time
to time. In terms of Section 10 of the Air Force Act, “Every officer
shall hold his/her appointment during the president’s pleasure”.
However an officer has no right to resign his/her commission
unilaterally, but under provision of Section 11 of the Air Force Act
may be allowed by the President to do so. The provisions of any
Bond/Agreement envisaging a period of obligatory service in respect
of training and subsequent courses will not supersede the provisions
of Section 11 of the Air Force Act, stated above. Retirement from
the Air Force will be applicable under conditions specified in the
Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code.
12. All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any
part of the world at any time.
13. A single officer is required to live in  the Officers Mess. He/
She is provided with furnished accommodation and food. Batman
service will also be provided. A single officer’s ration allowance and
batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
14. A married officer may be provided with a married quarter if
available. Recovery of rental will be as per the Establishment Code.
Married officers not in occupation of married quarters will be entitled
to a rental allowance as stated in para 15( d)(17).
15. ( a) Pay applicable for commissioned officers shall be as
follows :
Pilot Officer – Rs. 242,700 p. a.
Flying Officer – Rs. 275,220 - 34 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Flight Lieutenant – Rs. 321,660 - 28 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Squadron Leader – Rs. 352,620 - 24 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Wing Commander – Rs. 362,100 – 20 x 9,480 -
Rs. 551,700 p. a.
Group Captain – Rs. 441,060 – 18 x 12,600 -
Rs. 667,860 p. a.
(b) Pay applicable to Medical Officers :
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 313,920 - 2 x 7,740 - Rs. 329,400
p. a.
Grade II - Rs. 337,140 - 8 x 7,800 - Rs. 399,540 p. a.
Grade I - Rs. 412,140 - 15 x 12,600 - Rs. 601,140 p. a.
Specialist Grade - Rs. 508,680 - 12 x 15,720 -
Rs. 697,320 p. a.
(c) Pay applicable to Dental Officers :
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 306,180 - 3x7,740 - Rs. 329,400
p. a.
Grade II - Rs. 337,140 - 8 x 7,800 - Rs. 399,540 p. a.
Grade I - Rs. 412,140 - 15 x 12,600 - Rs. 601,140 p. a.
Specialist Grade - Rs. 508,680 - 12 x 15,720 -
Rs. 697,320 p. a.
(d) Other allowances applicable to Medical and Dental
Officers :
(1) Pensionable allowances :
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade II – Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade I – Rs. 3,400 per month
Specialist Grade - Rs. 3,400 per month
(2) Non pensionable allowances :
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 2,125 per month
Grade II – Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade I - Rs. 400 per month
(3) Extra duty allowances - Rs. 25,000 per month
(4) Extra duty payments :
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 335 per hour
Grade II - Rs. 383 per hour
Grade I - Rs. 528 per hour
Specialist Grade - Rs. 628 per hour
(5) Service allowances indicated in paragraph 15(d) are
to be calculated separately as applicable.
(e) Service Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowance Rs. 6,600 per month.
(2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five
years of service.
(3) Hard line allowance Rs. 600 per month.
(4) Additional Hard line allowance Rs. 4,400 per month
for those serving in operational areas.
(5) Special allowance Rs. 3,000 per month (Rs. 100 will
be paid for per day).
(6) Interim allowance Rs. 1,000 per month.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1533
(7) Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month.
(8) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted
to live out).
(9) Ration allowance Rs. 14,449.80 per month (if
permitted to live out).
(10) Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum
of Rs. 637.50 per month).
(11) Special allowance 17.5% of consolidated salary.
(12) Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for
officer, spouse and children).
(13) An additional set of railway warrants or the
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes
to travel from the Mess to the hometown once a month.
(14) Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
(15) Free medical facilities (including for families if
applicable).
(16) Married officers permitted to live out are entitled to a
free bus pass to travel from residence to place of work
within 30 miles radius.
(17) Rent allowance for married officers not in occupation
of a government married quarter. Pilot Officer to Group
Captain and above Rs. 1,600 to Rs. 4,250 per month.
(18) Service allowance Rs. 300, Rs. 400, Rs. 500 as
applicable (Payable to service Medical and Dental
Officers in consideration to the number of complete
years of service)
(19) Additional service allowance Rs. 1,500 per month
(applicable to service Medical and Dental Officers
only)
(20) 1/20 Allowance - Con pay x 1/20 x 03 days (Maximum)
per month (applicable to service Medical and Dental
Officers only).
(21) Extra Duty Payments 120 hrs (Maximum) per month
(applicable to service Medical and Dental Officers
only).
16. Pensions/Gratuities .- Payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to
time. All officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans
Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions are as per
Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970.
17. Instructions to applicants :-
(a) Applications should be submitted in terms of the form
specified below. All cages of the application should be
completed neatly with as much details as possible.
Applications should be addressed to “Command
Recruiting Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda”
so as to reach him not later than 1200 noon on 23rd
August, 2013 under registered cover. The envelope
enclosing the application should be marked  “Application
for Commission in the ........... Branch” Applications
received after the closing date and not in accordance with
the requirements of this notification and not in registered
post mail will not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Department/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should
bear a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be
released if selected.
(c) Applicants should attach to their applications copies of :
1. Certificate of Registration of birth ;
2. Certificates of the highest academic and professional
qualifications obtained ;
3. Certificates of character from at least two
responsible persons who are personally acquainted
with the applicant.
4. Certificates in support of sports activities, cadetting
etc.
5. Certificate in support of any claims made in the
application.
*Note.– Originals of these certificates should be produced only
if and when the applicant is called for the interviews.
18. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to dismissal if
discovered after the selection.
19. Selection interview :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those
candidates who fulfil the above conditions only.
Candidates so selected from the Preliminary Interview
will be required to undergo a medical test as may be
prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The final
selection will then be made after an interview appointed
by the Ministry of Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in
writing of the place, time and date of such interviews, No
travelling or other expenses will be paid in this respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an
interview he/she is to produce his/her National Identity
Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(d) Candidates likely to be suitable following their final
interviews will be required to present themselves before
an Air Force Medical Board.
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should
do so by giving his/her testimonial. Any form of

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1534
canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a
candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will
not be notified.
H. D. ABEYWICKRAMA,,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION FOR COMMISSION IN THE SRI LANKA
REGULAR/VOLUNTEER AIR FORCE
IN THE ................ BRANCH
1. Nationality :–––––––––––.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration
and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
2. Full name (As per the National Identity Card) :––––––––––.
3. National  Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
4. Branch applied :––––––––––.
5. Post applied :–––––––––––.
6. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
7. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :–––––––––––.
8. Postal address :–––––––––––.
9. E-mail address :–––––––––––.
10. Date of birth :–––––––––––.
11. Height :–––––'––––––".
12. District :–––––––––––.
13. Electorate :–––––––––––.
14. Grama Seva Division and Number :–––––––––––.
15. Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
16. Civil status :–––––––––––.
17. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications
obtained :
Name of Schoo/ Type of Year of Subjects passed
University examination examination (including
grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Professional
Qualifications
Other
18. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University (if
applicable ) :
Name and address Nature of Period of Service
of employer employment From  To
19. Particulars of parents :
Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present
address
Father
Mother
20. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
21. Details of current achievement in sports. (Give details of teams
and competitions participated with dates/years etc. and
standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––––.
22. Other achievements of note at School/University or with
outside organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) :
–––––––.
23. Any previous service in the Armed Force or Volunteer Force,
Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :–––––––––––.
24. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any
of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the
outcome of such applications :–––––––––––.
25. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military
court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
26. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the
Public Sector/Board/Corporation (including the Central Bank,
National Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled
by the Government etc.,) reasons for termination of
employment :–––––––––––.
27. Particulars of testimonials :
Name Designation Postal Address
28. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions
are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I have
read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the
rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected for commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published in the
Gazette of the Repubilc of Sri Lanka.
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
08–552

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1535
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
DEPARTMENT  OF  ANIMAL  PRODUCTION  AND
HEALTH
Competitive Examination for the admission to the Sri
Lanka School of Animal Husbandry – 2013
TWO YEAR DIPLOMA IN ANIMAL HUSBANDRY (FOR
THE ACADEMIC YEARS 2014/2016)
APPLICATIONS are being called for the competitive examination
for the admission of students for the academic years 2014/2016, to
follow the Diploma course in Animal Husbandry conducted by the
Department of Animal Production and Health. This examination is
due to be held in Kandy on October, 2013 in Sinhala and Tamil
medium.
02. Two year Diploma Course :
2.1 The course will be conducted in Sinhala/Tamil and
English medium.
2.2 The Diploma course in purely a vocational training
course (in case of obtaining a government employment,
the extra qualifications specified in the Scheme of
Recruitment relevant to the particular post are essential
additionally to these professional qualifications.)
2.3 Lodging will be provided for the students during the
period of training but students should supply additional
finance for their extra requirements.
2.4 Classes may be held on Saturdays and Sundays and
students will be allowed to leave their hostel in one
weekend of the month.
03. Qualifications to be fulfilled at the admission :
3.1 (a) Should have passed the General Certificate of
Education (Ordinary Level) in not more than two
sittings with six (06) subjects including four (04)
credit passes in language (Sinhala/Tamil), Maths,
Science and one of the subjects of Social Studies,
Agriculture or History. At this, should have passed
minimum of 05 subjects in one sitting with credit
passes for three subjects ; and
should have passed the General Certificate of
Education (Advanced Level) in three subjects in one
sitting Botany, Chemistry, Physics, Zoology, Agri-
Science and Biology. (priority will be given at selecting
the applicants with this qualification) ; or
(b) Should have passed the General Certificate of
Education (Ordinary Level) in not more than two
sittings with six subjects including 04 credit passes
in Sinhala/Tamil, Maths, Science and one of the
subjects of Social Studies, Agriculture or History.
At this, should have passed minimum of 05 subjects
in one sitting with credit passes for three subjects ;
and
should have passed the General Certificate of
Education (Advanced Level) in two subjects in one
sitting Botany, Chemistry, Physics, Zoology, Agri-
Science and Biology. Applicants with these
qualifications will be selected based on the availability
of the vacancies, subsequently selecting the
applicants of 3.1( a) ;
(c) If the applicant wishes to follow the course in English
medium, should have obtained a credit pass for
English at the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examinations
and pass the General English subject at the G . C. E.
(Advanced Level) Examination.
3.2 The candidates should be not less than 17 years and not
more than 25 years as at 16.09.2013.
3.3 The candidates are requested to read carefully the
required qualifications in 3.1 and 3.2 which due to be
fulfilled at the admission. Application will be rejected if
the candidate has not completed the required
qualifications and/or he/she is not within the required
age limit.
3.4 Applicants with pending results of G . C. E. (A/L) are
not qualified to apply for this. The students those who
are following a two year course in Animal Husbandry at
a Government Department or a Government Institution
are not eligible to follow this course.
3.5 All the candidates should sit for a written test as
indicated in 5.2, at which they should appear that
placement test in the language medium that he/she wishes
to follow the course.
3.6 If the applicant wishes to follow the course in English
medium, he/she should face a special test paper as stated
in 5.2.1.
04. Procedure of applications :
4.1 The applications should be prepared by the applicant
on a paper size A4 as per the specimen application
form appearing at the end of this notice. Applications
which are not duly completed will be rejected without
any notice.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1536
4.2 The examination fee is Rs. 150. The candidates should
forward money order with application to the value of
Rs. 150 in favour of Director General, Animal Production
and Health to withdraw from the post office Peradeniya
and only the edge of the money order should be affixed
in the application. Further, photostat copy of the money
order should be kept for your own safety. Examination
fee is not refundable in any reason. The fee paid for this
examination is unable to be transferred to another
examination. The application without the affixed money
order will be rejected without any information.
4.3 Completed applications should be sent only by
registered post to reach the Director (Human Resource
Development). Department of Animal Production and
Health P. O. Box 13, Peradeniya on or before 16.09.2013.
4.4 On the top left corner of the envelope containing
the application "Admission to the School of Animal
Husbandry 2014/2016" to be clearly mentioned.
4.5 The copies of the educational certificates and the birth
certificate should be attached to the application. The
application which do not comply with this requirement
will be rejected. Originals of all certificates should be
produced at the Interview.
05. Mode of selection :
5.1 Selections of students will be done by a written
examination and interview by this Department.
5.2 Syllabus for the written examination is as follows :–
(i) Animal husbandry. – Multiple choice and short
questions prepared according to the section of
Animal Husbandry in Agriculture syllabus
prescribed for (G. C. E. (O/L) - duration 1 hr.
(ii) General knowledge - duration 1 hr.
5.2.1 English paper will be prepared as to be based
on the G. C. E. (O/L) Syllabus - duration
1 hr.
5.3 Any kind of allowance will not be paid in case of
appearing for the written test or the interview or both.
5.4 Candidates will be required to prove their identity at
the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor.
For this purpose any of the following documents will
be accepted :-
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the
Department of Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid Passport issued within the period of
three years on the date of examination.
5.5 If it reveals that a candidate has submitted a false
information knowingly he/she will be liable to
disqualification. Further, where a student withdraws
his/her studentship after one month since the course
has been started, he/she liable to repay all the expenses
which have been spent by the government on behalf of
her/his training. The Director General of Animal
Production and Health holds the sole authority of
assessing such an expense.
Dr. W. K. D
E SILV A,
Director General,
Animal Production and Health.
Department of Animal Production and Health,
Gatambe,
Peradeniya,
01st August, 2013.
A
PPLICATION
DEPARTMENT OF ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH
SRI LANKA SCHOOL OF ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
TWO YEAR DIPLOMA IN ANIMAL HUSBANDRY 2014/2016
Language medium in which the
applicant wishes to sit :
01. Name in full (in legible letters) :––––––––––.
02. Name with initials :––––––––––.
03. N. I. C. No. :––––––––––.
04. Address :––––––––––.
05. D. S. Division :––––––––––. District :––––––––––.
06. Date of birth :
Year :––––––––––, Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
07. Age as at 16.09.2013 :
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1537
08. Contact Number :–––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications :
(i) G . C. E. (O/L) :
Grade
Subject (Ordinary/Credit/ Y ear Index No.
Distinction)
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
(ii) G . C. E. (A/L) :
Grade
Subject (Ordinary/Credit/ Y ear Index No.
Distinction)
1.
2.
3.
4.
(The copies of the educational certificates should be attached.
The applications without the educational certificates will be
rejected).
10. Post office to which the fee was paid and the receipt No. :
––––––––––.
(Please attach the money order to the application enabling to
detach it when necessary)
11. Last School/Institution attended :––––––––––.
12. Date of leaving :––––––––––.
13. Experience in Animal husbandry gives the particular :––––––.
(Copies of the certificates should be attached)
14. Experience in the Rural Development/Agriculture/Social Service/
Sports :––––––––––.
(Copies of the certificates should be attached)
15. Names and addresses of two referees :
01. .............................. 02. .............................
.............................. .............................
.............................. .............................
I do hereby certify that the above particulars furnished by me
are true and correct according to my knowledge. I am also aware
that if any particular contained herein are found to be false or
incorrect after the selection my studentship will be terminated and
I am liable to pay any expenses incurred on account of my training.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
Note :
Copies of the certificates/documents attached herewith.
1.
2.
08–626
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.