

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2172
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2164 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"348 – 2023 iema;eïn¾ ui 01 jeks isl=rdod – 2023'09'01
No. 2,348  –  fRiday ,  sEPtEmbER 01, 2023
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE"
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 22
nd september, 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 08th september, 2023.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2023.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
2161 - b 082490 - 5,403 (09/2023)
Part I : Section (IIA)(E) 
T - 07 (AU)
3rd Reading (Pages 1 - 19) 
N. B.–   (i) the list of Jurors' in colombo district Jurisdiction areas in year 2023 of the Jurisdiction areas of Kurunegala district has been 
Published in Part Vi of this Gazette in sinhala, tamil and English Language.
 (ii) Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,347 of 25.08.2023 was not published. 

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.09.2023
2162
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a sri 
Lankan. a ,sri Lankan, is a citizen of sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a sinhalese educated in sinhala 
medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic socialist Republic of sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in sinhala medium or in tamil medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public service in a medium other than sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public service. such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public service  Provident fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  service and Public 
service respectively.
4:4 Regular force personnel in the army, Navy and air force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public service  which are 
pensionable under the minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public service, Provincial Public 
service, Public corporate sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.09.2023
2163
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall staff. if there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. should the supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. if you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.09.2023
2164
Posts - v acant 
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of births, Deaths and marriages/Additional marriages (kandyan/General) 
Sinhala medium
bADuLLA   DISTRICT
aPPLicatioNs are called for the Post of Registrar of  births, deaths and marriages/additional marriages for the divisions 
set out in the schedule hereof;
01. applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant births, deaths and marriages/additional marriages division 
and entitled to reasonable properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired sufficient 
interest and influence amongst the residents of the area.
02. both male and female candidates can apply for this post.
03. applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the applications. 
(maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. applicants for the Post of Registrar of marriages should be married and should not be a widow/widower or divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala language with 02 Credit passes in not more 
than t wo (02) sittings in GcE (o/L) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary language 
as per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else should have passed in any other similar 
examination.
N.B.-  In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE (O/L) or any other similar Examination, it shall be considered as one 
subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
 
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the post 
and easy access by all or majority of residents.
07. additional details such as V illage name list/Grama Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of births, deaths and 
Marriages/Additional Marriages, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be obtained 
from notices exhibited in public places within the division such as district secretariat, divisional secretariat or relevant 
land and district Registries, Grama Niladhari offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices depicted 
in the schedule hereunder.
08. Relevant application and the said "annex-01" inclusive of V illage Name list/Grama Niladhari divisions could be 
collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. Applications 
could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General's department.
09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 02
nd  October, 2023 by registered post to the address given in 
the schedule.
  W. R. a. N. S. WijayaSiNghe, 
  Registrar General.
Registrar General's department, 
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
16th august, 2023.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.09.2023
2165
scHEdULE
District Divisional Secretariat
Division
Post and Division for which 
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
badulla Welimada
Post of  births & deaths Registrar 
of dambawinna south division 
and marriages Registrar (Kandyan/
General) of Udukinda division
district secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
secretariat, badulla.
09 - 26
––––––––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of births, Deaths and marriages/Additional marriages - Tamil medium
bADuLLA   DISTRICT
aPPLicatioNs are called for the Post of Registrar of  births, deaths and marriages/additional marriages for the divisions 
set out in the schedule hereof;
01. applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant births, deaths and marriages/additional marriages division 
and entitled to reasonable properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired sufficient 
interest and influence amongst the residents of the area.
02. both male and female candidates can apply for this post.
03. applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the applications. 
(maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. applicants for the Post of Registrar of marriages should be married and should not be a widow/widower or divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala Language with 02 credit passes in not more 
than two (02) sittings in GcE (o/L) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary language 
as per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else should have passed in any other similar 
examination.
N.B.-  In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE (O/L) or any other similar Examination, it shall be considered as one 
subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
 
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the post 
and easy access by all or majority of residents.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.09.2023
2166
07. additional details such as V illage name list/Grama Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of births, deaths and 
Marriages/Additional Marriages, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be obtained 
from notices exhibited in public places within the division such as district secretariat, divisional secretariat or relevant 
land and district Registries, Grama Niladhari offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices depicted 
in the schedule hereunder.
08. Relevant application and the said "annex-01" inclusive of V illage Name list/Grama Niladhari divisions could be 
collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. Applications 
could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General's department.
09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 02
nd  October, 2023 by registered post to the address given in 
the schedule.
  W. R. a. N. S. WijayaSiNghe, 
  Registrar General.
Registrar General's department, 
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
16
th  august, 2023.
scHEdULE
District Divisional Secretariat
Division
Post and Division for which 
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
badulla Hali Ela
Post of  births & deaths marriages 
Registrar (General) of Hali Ela 
division (t amil medium)
district secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
secretariat, badulla.
09 - 27
––––––––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTmENT
Amending the Notice of Calling for Applications for the Post of 
marriage births and Deaths Registrar (Tamil)  
bADuLLA    DISTRICT
tHE post of births, deaths Registrar of Kandapalla East division of Haldummulla divisional secretary's division of 
badulla district and marriage (General) Registrar (t amil medium) of Haputale division mentioned in the Gazette No. 2344 
and dated 04.08.2023 of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka should be amended as mentioned in the schedule 
below and i hereby announce that the deadline for receipt of application has been extended to 02.10.2023 date.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.09.2023
2167
02. the division for which applications were called, Position and the deadline for receipt of application only should be 
amended and please kindly consider that all other facts mentioned in the relevant Notice of calling for applications 
remain unchanged.
  W. R. a. N. S. W ijayaSiNghe , 
  Registrar General.
Registrar General's department, 
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
scHEdULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Applications are called
badulla Haldummulla Post of  births & deaths Registrar of Kandapalla West division and 
marriage Registrar (General) of Haputale division (t amil medium)
09 - 28
––––––––––––––––––––––––––
OffICE Of ThE CAbINET Of mINISTERS
Notice Calling for Applications for the appointment to the Post of Deputy Director, Class I Grade II of 
the Sri Lanka Information and Communication Technology Service 
aPPLicatioNs are called for one (01) vacant post of deputy director (information and communication technology) in 
the Office of the Cabinet of Ministers, from officers in Class I Grade II of the Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
technology service.
02. Applications prepared as per the specimen form given at the end of this notification in terms of Annex - 02 of Public 
administration circular No. 28/2019 dated 12.09.2019 issued in accordance with the order of the Public service 
commission should be sent by registered post or by hand to reach the secretary to the cabinet of ministers on or before 
02.10.2023. the words "application for the post of deputy director (information and communication technology)" 
should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelop enclosing the application.
address to which applications should be sent  :  secretary to the cabinet of ministers,
  Office of the Cabinet of Ministers,
  Lloyd's building,
  sir barron Jayathilaka mawatha,
  colombo 01.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.09.2023
2168
03. Appointment to the post of Deputy Director (Information and Communication Technology) of the Office of the 
cabinet of  ministers will be made by the Public service commission as per the merits at the interview which is to be 
conducted by a board of interview approved by the said commission in accordance with the service minute of the sri 
Lanka information and communication technology service promulgated by the Extraordinary Gazette Notification 
No. 2050/43 dated 22.12.2017 of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka and the provisions of the Public 
administration circular No. 28/2019 dated 12.09.2019.
04. the detailed marking scheme of the above interview is given below.
by order of the Public service commission.
     
  secretary to the cabinet of ministers.
Office of  the Cabinet Ministers,
Lloyd's building,
sir barron Jayathilaka mawatha,
sir barron Jayathilaka mawatha,
colombo 01.
telephone No.  :  011 2329620/011 2422438
fax No.  :  0112323730
Email  :  info@cabinetoffice.gov.lk
officE of tHE cabiNEt of miNistERs
marking scheme of the aptitude assessment interview for the post of deputy director class i Grade ii of the sri Lanka 
information and communication technology service.
Serial 
No.
Titles of Testing and Marking Maximum 
Marks
Total 
Marks
1. Service Experience
(i)    05 marks will be given for an active and satisfactory service period of each year 
in class i Grade ii of the sri Lanka information and communication technology 
service and 2 1/2 marks for a service period of more than 06 months but less than one 
year. marks will not be given for a service period of less than 06 months.
(ii)   02 marks will be given for each year of prior experience (as deputy/assistant director) 
relating to the requirement of information and communication technology in the 
Office of the Cabinet of Ministers (for a maximum 05 years) and 01 mark for more 
than 06 months period of experience. marks will not be given for experience of less 
than 06 months.
 
50
10
60

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.09.2023
2169
Serial 
No.
Titles of Testing and Marking Maximum 
Marks
Total 
Marks
2. Competency
(I)      Educational Qualifications
      In addition to the basic qualifications considered at recruitment, only the educational 
qualifications relevant to the categorization of fields of specialization set out in 
the service mintue of the sri Lanka information and communication t echnology 
Service or the aducational qualifications relevant to the post for which applications 
have been called, will be considered.
(a)  Post Graduate degree in computer science/information t echnology -  
   15 marks
(b)    Post Graduate diploma in computer science/information t echnology  - 
        10 marks
• Marks will be given only for the highest qualification.
(II)      Professional Qualifications
  a. (i)    For a Diploma Course of at least one year or more related to the field of 
information and communication t echnology (Local/foreign) - 10 marks
     (ii)     for courses of 06 months or more but less than 01 year related to the said 
field - 05 marks
Note 
The following internationally recognized professional certifications will be 
considered under 02 (ii)a. (i) above, irrespective of the course duration.
1. bcs/acs
2. Microsoft Certifications
3. Sun Certifications
4. Cisco Certifications
5. CISSP Certifications
(III)      Special Performances/Contributions
          marks will be given as follows for innovations, dovelopments and achievements, 
Awards and Commendations relevant to the field of Information and 
communication t echnology.
(a) 02 marks each for a maximum of 05 items for each innovation, development, 
Achievement or Award covering the following fields - 10 marks.
 
1. software design/development
2. Network administration
3. system administration
4. data base administration
5. General information and communication t echnology t asks & etc.
15
10
10
40

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.09.2023
2170
Serial 
No.
Titles of Testing and Marking Maximum 
Marks
Total 
Marks
(c) a  maximum of 05 marks will be given at the rate of one mark for each 
commendation (only for a maximum of 05 commendations) submitted in 
General Form 230 B and certified by the Secretary to the Ministry/Head of 
department. an applicant having received the maximum marks given for 
commendations could obtain the rest of the 05 marks set out under (iii)a 
above as well.
Note
• It should be certified by the Head of Department that the innovations, 
developments have been done by the applicant himself.
• Formal certificates should be submitted to authenticate that the awards and 
achievements have been obtained by the applicant himself.
(Iv)      Competency shown at the Interview
a. Leadership - 02 marks
b. communication skills - 02 marks
c. Professional  politeness - 01 mark
05
t otal 100
officE of tHE cabiNEt of miNistERs
application for the appoinment to the Post of deputy director class i Grade ii of the sri Lanka information and 
communication t echnology service.
Part (A) - Should be filled by the Applicant.
 1.  full Name  :  mr./mrs./miss. ...............................................................................................................
 2.  date of birth  : ........................................................................................................................................
 3.  National identity card No.  : ........................................................................................................................................
 4.  Period of service  : 
Class/Grade Period of Service
class i Grade i
class i Grade ii
class i Grade iii
 5.  Present Post and area of work  : ............................................................................................................................

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.09.2023
2171
 6. Educational Qualifications :
  details of Postgraduate degree/Postgraduate diploma
Postgraduate Degree/ Postgraduate 
Diploma
Year University Subject
 7.  Professional Qualifications   : ............................................................................................................................
 8. special duties performed  :
  
Service performed and special 
duties rendered/contibutions/
achievements
Description Certification of the Head of the 
Department, yes/No
i do hereby certify that the particulars given above are true and correct.
date : .................................................... ..................................................................
 signature of applicant,
 Designation and Official Stamp.
Part (B) - Should be filled by the Head of the Department.
 I.  Whether the officer has completed active and satisfactory period of service of 03 years immediately preceding the 
date of calling for applications : y es/No
 II.  Whether the officer has earned increments for the 03 years immediately preceding the date of calling for 
applications : y es/No
 III.  Whether the officer has been subjected to any disciplinary offence within the 03 years immediately preceding the 
date of calling for applications : y es/No
 IV .  Whether disciplinary action has been initiated or contemplated against the officer : Yes/No
 V .  Particulars of leave obtained during the preceding 03 years :
Serial No. Year Full Pay 
Leave
Half Pay 
Leave
No Pay Leave
I hereby inform that the particulars furnished above are correct according to the personal file of the officer and if the officer 
is selected to the post applied for, he/she could be released with/without a successor or on the basis of a sucessor being 
provided later.
date : .................................................... ..................................................................
 signature of the Head of department/institution   
 Designation and the Official Stamp.
09 - 05

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.09.2023
2172
Amendment
No. 2,285 -  friday, 17th of June, 2022 - 17.06.2022
DEPARTmENT  Of ImmIGRATION AND EmIGRATION
Efficiency Bar Examination for Grade I Authorized Officers of the  
Department of Immigration and Emigration 2014 (2022)   
 
by  virtue of the powers vested with the controller General of immigration and Emigration under 12 of the relevant Gazette 
Notificaiton, Name of the subject in Subject No. 02 in the Table which contains the details of examination in 2 under the 
Examination procedure is amended as follows in No. 10 of the Notice of Examination named "Efficiency bar Examination 
for Grade I Authorized officers of the Department of Immigration and Emigration - 2014 (2022)" published in the Gazette 
of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka No. 2,285 dated 17th June, 2022.
 10.
 02.  details of the examination
Subject 
No.
Subject Duration Total 
Marks
Pass 
Marks
02 Establishments code, Procedural Rules and financial 
Regulations
02 Hours 100 40%
 02.  the other provisions in the Gazette Notification are remained unchanged.
   i. S. h. j. ilukpititya,
   controller General of immigration and Emigration,
   department of immigration and Emigration.
suhurupaya,
department of immigration and Emigration,
battaramulla.
14th august, 2023.
09 - 31
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––
the chiththa advanced Psychological studies open institute of sri Lanka
(arrangements have been made to incorporate under the Parliament act, bill No. 105 of 2022)
GENERAL  CERTIfICATE COuRSE IN APPLIED PSyChOLOGy - 2023/2024
 
aPPLicatioNs are invited from those aspiring to pursue the General Certificate Course in Applied Psychology at The 
Chiththa Advanced Psychological Studies Open Institute of Sri Lanka. Those who have fulfil the following qualifications 
can apply to success the first step of becoming Professional Psychological Counsellor through this course or who are 
interested in Pshychology.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.,

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.09.2023
2173
Qualifications :
G.c.E. (a/L) s3 passes in any stream
and 
18 years of age on 15.01.2023, of good character and in good health.
Nature of course : online (open and distance Learning)
medium : English or sinhala
Course Duration :
 a  six month part-time course. Lecture recordings and additional readings links are provided meanwhile the lectures 
which can be viewed at convenient times.
Course fees and Student Registration Fees. : the total course fee is Rs. 12,900.00 
While registering for the course, the student registration fee of 900.00 must be paid.
Rs. 12,000.00 can be paid at once or Rs. 2000.00 payable in six monthly instalments.
How to apply for the course :
by the applicants should send their,
1.  National identity card Photo (front and,
2.  G.c.E. (a/L) examination result sheet's photograph,
3.  self coloured clear photograph (for processing online student id card),
070 - 4191660 (Whatsapp)
the last date for enrollimg students for the course is : 15.09.2023.
For more Information : Can inquire through the phone number 032 - 3137500 at Office hours from 8.30 a.m. to 4.30 p.m.
senior Registrar,
the chiththa advanced Psychological studies open institute of sri Lanka.
09 - 46
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––
CEyLON GERmAN TEChNICAL TRAINING INSTITuTE mORATuWA
mINISTR y Of  EDuCATION
Skills Development, v ocational Education, Research & Innovation Division
ADmISSION fOR ThE fuLL TImE COuRSES 
uNDER ThE NATIONAL APPRENTICEShIP SChEmE - 2023
aPPLicatioNs are invited from Male & Female candidates who hold following minimum qualifications for the admission 
of year 2023.
 01.  (a) Age – between 16 - 22 years as at 31.07.2023

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.09.2023
2174
    (b)  Educational Qualification   - 
  Passed in 06 subjects at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination including Sinhala/Tamil Language (medium of instruction) 
and mathematics in one sitting.
Or
  Passed in 06 subjects at the Landon (O/L) Examination including English Language and mathematics in one sitting.
01. Applicants who have special skills   
  Candidates who have placed among first three places in a Provincial level competition or obtain a certificate of merit 
or above by a National Competition of Sri Lanka Inventors Commission in Electrical/ Electronic/ Mechanical fields 
and candidates who have completed the above section (b) qualifications with not less than two attempts are also 
qualified to sit for the examination. 
   
 Note:   candidates following full time courses at National apprentice & industrial training authority (Naita) and bonded 
for period of 03 years or more are not eligible to apply for these full time courses.
       
 02.  Course medium:-
  all courses are conducted in sinhala medium. only automobile course will be conducted in tamil medium too. 
opportunity will be provided to follow other courses to the tamil medium students, who have ability in sinhala 
language.
  London G.C.E Ordinary Level qualification holders will be allowed to follow courses in Sinhala/Tamil medium.    
  
 03.  Entrance Examination:
  Applicants who possess the requisite minimum qualifications will be allowed to sit for the admission test provided 
examination fees referred to in column 4 below have been paid.
 (a)  medium: sinhala / t amil  
 (b)  Examination Centers
  a  written examination for admission will be conducted at the Centers in Colombo, kandy, Galle, badulla, 
Anuradhapura & vavuniya as indicated in the application.
  Kindly note that if an adequate Number of candidates are not available at particular centers then the management 
reserve the right to change the centers by accommodating such applications according to the preference of the 
candidate. 
  Examination Subjects:
  the examination will consist of two question papers based on mathematics, General knowledge, intelligence test, 
technical knowledge, English knowledge and technical drawing.
 04.  Examination fees:- 
  applicants should pay thousand Rupees only (Rs. 1000/-) as examination fees paying voucher of the bank should 
be attached to the application. the application should be forwarded together with the paying voucher of the bank.
  Payment :
  the payment can be made to any bank of ceylon branch to the accountant,   ceylon German technical training 
institute which credit to Account Number 681490 maintained at moratuwa branch. Paying vouchers that defaced 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.09.2023
2175
or erased will not be accepted. Examination fees will not be refunded to candidates those who are not appearing for 
the examination or on rejection of their applications for any other reason.  
 05.  Primary Selection :-
  Primary selection of candidates for admission will be merit based on the written examination and those who obtain 
the required highest marks will be called for interview to the final selection. Cutoff marks for less privileged 
provinces would be decided by the management of cGtti. (Less privileged provinces are decided according to sri 
Lanka Examination department).
 06.  final Selection :-
  Those who obtained highest marks from aptitude test and interview would be    considered for final selection. 40% 
marks are allocated for aptitude test & 60% for the interview. Extra curricular activities are specially considered. 
  the selected candidates will have to go through a medical examination and those who fail the medical test will be 
discontinued.
 07.  Training Courses:-
Serial 
No.
Course Duration
01 automobile 04 years
02 millwright/fitter 04 years
03 air conditioning and Refrigeration 03½ years
04 Power Electrical 03½ years
05 tool machinery 03½ years
06 mechatronic technology (industrial) 03½ years
07 diesel mechanic 03 years
08 auto Electrical 03 years
09 Welding 03 years
10 motor Vehicle body Repairer & Painter 03 years
  y ou should correctly mention the number 01 to 10 in the application form in the order of priority according to your 
preference while selecting the courses.
  Note.– We will always endeavor to give you the opprtunity to study the course you apply for according to your 
preference and if it is not possible to give suel an opportunity due to the demand for each course, you have to attend 
the course offered by the institution.
  the institute will have the discretion to change the duration of the courses if it is necessary.
 08.  bond to be signed:-   
  all selected candidates are required to enter in to a bond to undergo full time training at cGtti for periods ranging 
from 04, 03 ½ ,03 years in their allocated trades and enter in to agreement with the National apprentice & industrial 
training authority(Naita) as per their requirements. 
 09.  Applications:- 
  the application should be prepared as per the specimen form given below (a4 size) and photo copies of the following 
certificates should also be attached with the application. Application which does not contain photo copies and 
credit voucher  will be rejected. 

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.09.2023
2176
 (a)  Birth Certificate ;
 (b)  Educational Certificates ;
 (c)  Applicants who apply under special skills should forward the certificate of Provincial / National level competition 
issued by sri Lanka inventors commission.
  the envelope in which application is enclosed should be marked, “Recruitment of apprentice – 2023” on the top 
left-hand corner. 
Obtaining Application form
  by downloading via the institute's web site ( www.cgtti.lk ) ;
  by visiting to the institute.
 10.  Closing date of applications:-
  applications should be sent to the manager – administration and Human Resources ceylon German technical 
training institute, No. 582, Galle Road, mount Lavinia, by registered post on or before 30th September 2023. 
 11.   Admission cards:-
  Admission cards for the examination will be sent to all qualified candidates on around 04th December 2023. if any 
candidate does not receive the admission card, contact over the telephone number given below within 07 days from the 
date. 
  manager – HR & administration,   
  ceylon German t echnical training institute.
No. 582, Galle Road, 
mount Lavinia.(angulana Junction),
telephone -0112605625. 
APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO FULL TIME COURSES -2023
(UNDER THE NATIONAL APPRENTICESHIP- SCHEME)
CEYLON GERMAN TECHNICAL TRAINING INSTITUTE – MORATUWA
	Use Block Capitals when filling the form in English.
	Use (
√) to complete 03 (d) and 06 (a, b). 
01. (a)  Full Name
        (Sinhala)
training 
No.
For Office 
use only 
index 
No.
interview 
No.
dQQ

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.09.2023
2177
 (b) full Name :
            (English)
      
 (c) Name with initials :
      (English)
02. (a) Postal address :
       (sinhala)
 (b) Postal address :
       (English)
      
 (c) district :                       (d) divisional                (e) Province :
           secretariat  :                       
                   
 
 (f) E-mail address :             (g)   Phone
           Number :
                
   
03. (a) date of birth :                          (b) age as at 
       2023.07.31 :
 (c) Nic Number :         (d) sex (*)  
  
04. Educational Qualification (G.C.E. O/L) - (One Sitting)                 Second Sitting (Only for special skills applicants)
Index 
Number
Year Index 
Number
Year
  Subject Grade   Subject Grade
05. Specify the field and year of issue of the certificate (provincial/national) issued by the Sri Lanka Inventors 
commission , if the candidate is applying under the special skills category
 
 y ear :     field :
mobile
datemonthyear
maleFemale
Residence
year month day

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.09.2023
2178
06. t raining courses :
Serial No. Mention the course below according 
to your preference order
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10
07. (a) medium at which the candidate wishes to sit the admission test (*)
 (b) center at which the candidate wishes to sit the admission test (*)
Colombo Kandy Galle Badulla Anuradhapura Vauniya
08. (a)  bank where the Examination fees were paid to :               (b) date :
                     
09. i hereby certify that the above particulars furnished by me are true and accurate, if any particulars contained here are 
found to be false or incorrect, liable for disqualification/dismissal before or after selection.
 If I am not qualified for the course for which I have expressed my interest, I agree to receive training in the course 
assigned by the institution.
                         signature         date
            
For Office Use Only
                           
(a) attached a copy of the bank Receipt
(b) Attached copies of Educational Certificates
(c) Attached a copy of the Birth Certificate
(d) Attached certificate of special skills 
       mentioned under (05)
(e) age Limit
(f) Qualified to sit the Admission test
  
(g) checked by
09 - 131
sinhala tamil
yes
yes
yes
yes
yes
No
No
No
No Not Relevant
No
-16 oK 22+

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.09.2023
2179
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of   GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is 
allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
 2023
 SEPTEmbER 01.09.2023 friday –– 18.08.2023 friday 12 noon
  08.09.2023 friday –– 25.08.2023 friday 12 noon
  15.09.2023 friday –– 01.09.2023 friday 12 noon
  22.09.2023 friday –– 08.09.2023 friday 12 noon
  27.09.2023   Wednesday –– 15.09.2023 friday 12 noon
 OCTObER 06.10.2023 friday –– 22.09.2023 friday 12 noon
  13.10.2023 friday –– 27.09.2023 Wednesday 12 noon
  20.10.2023 friday –– 06.10.2023 friday 12 noon
  27.10.2023 friday –– 13.10.2023 friday 12 noon
 NOvEmbER 03.11.2023 friday –– 20.10.2023 friday 12 noon
  10.11.2023 friday –– 27.10.2023 friday 12 noon
  17.11.2023 friday –– 03.11.2023 friday 12 noon
  24.11.2023 friday –– 10.11.2023 friday 12 noon
  
 GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2023.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  sRi  LaNKa.