

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1042
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"286 – 2022 cqks ui 24 jeks isl=rdod – 2022'06'24
No. 2,286 –  fRiday ,  juNE  24, 2022
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 15th july, 2022 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 01st july, 2022.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st january, 2021.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1039 - B 82357 - 5,403 (06/2022)      
N. B.–   Part  ii of the Gazette No. 2285 of 17.06.2022 was not published.


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2022
1040
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
january 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the financial 
year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular force personnel in the army, Navy and air force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2022
1041
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the Sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 II. Disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. Moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. Breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ She shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like Bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. Since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. Marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
Make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2022
1042
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of AGRICuLTuRE 
First Efficiency bar examination for the Officers in Sri Lanka Animal Production and 
health Service - 2018(2022)
IT is hereby notified that the First Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health 
Service is expected to commence in October, 2022 and to be held in Kandy. Applications are called from the officers who 
were in the Sri Lanka animal Production and Health Service as at 01st August, 2022. 
2. Time tables will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations 01 and 02 at the 
same time. 
3. Syllabus.– The Syllabus and rules and regulations relevant to Efficiency Bar Examinations 1 are stated in the new 
service minute. Officers can sit for all subjects in one attempt or several attempts. 
4. The prescribed subjects for the Efficiency Bar Examination 1 are given below :
Subject Duration Aggregate Marks Pass Marks
1. financial Systems 02 hours 100 40
2. administration 02 hours 100 40
3. departmental Regulations 1 02 hours 100 40
4. departmental Regulations 2 03 hours 100 40
5. Syllabus for the examination :
Subject Syllabus
1. financial Systems the financial Regulations of the Government of Sri Lanka (Except chapter X)
2. administration (a) Office Systems, Office Management and knowledge on office organization. 
(b) Procedural rules of the Public Service commission chapters from i-XXii and 
Establishment code chapters Vi, Vii, Viii, iX, Xii, Xiii, XiV , XV, XVi, XVii, 
XViii, XiX, XXiii, XXV , XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXX, XXXi, XXXii, 
XXXiii, XLVii, XLViii
3. dept. Regulations 
Paper i
animal act, the animal disease act and related regulations, departmental orders and 
circulars relevant to Veterinary Surgeon's Services.
4. dept. Regulations 
Paper ii
(a) Dissemination of specimens, Laboratory identification including post - mortem 
examination. 
      Pregnancies diagnosis, vaccines for contagious and infectious disease, serological 
test.
(b) Techniques and practices of artificial inseminations, principles relevant to breeding 
and rearing of calves, hatching and rearing of chicks by incubation, animal nutrition 
food rationing usage, pasture fodder cultivation, preparation of silages and Livestock 
Management. 
(c) Milk production, bottling and transportation of pasteurized milk, bacteria and fat in 
milk, separation of cream and processing of butter, ghee and curd
(d) Slaughtering of animal in abattoirs, identification of meat including testing.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2022
1043
6. this Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, tamil 
and  English  only  at  Examination  centers  established  in 
Kandy. Permission will not be given to change the medium 
applied by the candidate later.
7. the application should be in the form of the specimen 
appended to the notification and should be prepared on A4 
size paper using both sides of it. it should be noted that the 
cages 01 to 06 should appear on page i of the paper and the 
rest on the other side of the paper. the application should 
be filled by the candidate. The applications which are not 
prepared  as  per  the  specimen  form  and  the  incomplete 
applications  forms  will  be  rejected  without  informing  the 
candidate.  the  candidate  is  advised  to  keep  a  Photostat 
copy  of  the  application  for  his  use.  further  the  candidate 
should  check  the  applications  prepared  by  himself  with 
the specimen application appeared in the notice. the name 
of the examination should be written in English too in the 
applications prepared in Sinhala or tamil Medium.
8. the   Examination   will   be   conducted   by   the 
commissioner General of Examinations and candidates are 
bound to abide by rules and regulations enacted by him. the 
relavent rules and regulations are appeared at the end of this 
notice. if a candidate violates any of the rules is liable to 
punishment at the discretion of the commissioner General 
of Examination.
9. applications   should   be   forwarded   through  the 
Head of department/institute by registered Post to reach the 
director General of animal Production and Health, to the 
address given below on or before 01st August 2022. the 
applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
the director General of animal Production and Health, 
department of animal Production and Health,
P.o. box 13, 
Peradeniya.
10. the  applicants  those  who  have  forwarded  the 
accurately  completed  application  including  their  language 
medium in which they wish to appear at the examination, 
applicant’s   signature   and   certification   of   Departmental 
Head, and the receipt when it is prescribed to pay the fee 
before or on the date of receiving applications indicated in 
the notice, will be issued the admissions by the commissioner 
General of Examinations. as soon as the admission cards 
are  issued  to  the  candidates  a  notice  will  be  published  
in papers as well as in the official website of the Department. 
if the  admission  card  is  not  received  2-3  days  after  the 
publication  of  the  notice,  it  should  be  informed  to  the 
department of Examinations as stated in the notice. there, 
the  candidates  are  informed  to  indicate  candidate’s  full 
name,  address,  National  identity  card  Number  and  the 
Examination applied for. the candidates who reside outside 
colombo should make the inquiry to the fax number given 
in  this  notice  stating  his/her  fax  number  in  the  request  
to obtain  a  copy  of  the  admission  card  .it  is  useful  
to  keep certified Photostat copies of the application and 
receipt of the payment and receipt of the registration in your 
possession.
11. the  claims  submitted  later  by  the  candidates  who 
have failed to fulfill the requirements as stated in the above 
paragraph 10 will not be considered.
12. only the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons or the valid passport 
will be accepted for the examinations conducted by the 
department of Examinations in order to prove the identity 
of the candidate at the examination hall. the applicant's 
signature in the application as well as in the admission 
card should be certified by the Head of the Department 
or by an autorized person. the applicant should appear 
for the examination being seated in the place where your 
examination number has been indicated and the certified 
admission card should be produced to the examiner on the 
examination day. the applicant who does not produce the 
certified admission card will not be allowed to sit for the 
examination. 
13. fees will be levied from the candidates who sit for the 
examination on the following basis.
(a) No fees will be levied from candidates who sit for 
this examination for the first time.
(b) for each subsequent sitting
 for whole examination : Rs. 1,200.00 
 Single subject :   Rs. 300.00
candidates who have already sat for this examination or 
the  ones  those  who  have  applied  previously,  are  required 
to  pay  the  relevant  fees  as  indicated  above.  the  above 
examination  fees  should  be  paid  to  any  post  office/sub 
post office or Divisional/District Secretariat situated in the 
island to be credited to Revenue Head No. 20-03-02-13 of 
the commissioner General of Examination and the receipt 
of it should be affixed to the edge of the relevant cage in 
the application. further it may be useful to keep a Photostat 
copy of it.
14. issuing of an admission card to a candidate will not 
be considered that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to 
sit for the examination.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2022
1044
15. if Sinhala /tamil or English language versions of the Gazette notification are comparative the Sinhala versions 
will be accepted.
 Dr. K. a. C. H. a. KotHalawala,
 director General of the dept. of animal Production &  Health.
20th june, 2022.
MiNiStRy of aGRicuLtuRE
First eFFiCienCy Bar examination For tHe oFFiCers in sri lanKa animal ProDuCtion anD 
HealtH serviCe - 2018(2022)
(the name of the examination should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope.) 
 Language medium of examination Sinhala - 2
  tamil - 3
  English - 4
  (Give the relevant number in the box)
01.  (i)  full name (in block letters) :––––––––––––––.
   (Ex: HERatH MudiyaNSELaGE SaMaN KuMaRa GuNaWaRdHaNE)
  (ii) Last name with initials (in block letters) :––––––––––––––. 
   (Ex: GuNaWaRdHaNE H.M.S.K.)
  (iii) full name (in Sinhala/t amil) :––––––––––––––.
02. Postal address (for dispatch of admission card) :––––––––––––––. (in block letters)
03. Male / female :  female - 1
    Male - 0
    (write the appropriate number in the cage)
04. Nic number :
05. Mobile No. :
06. Subjects selected with the number as indicated in the paragraph 04 of the notification (Should be written clearly) :
Subject No. Subject
07. State whether you have sit for whole or a part of this examination. If so state the subjects, year and month :––––––––.
08. date of  birth : y ear :                     Month :                           date :
09. Name of the designation :–––––––––––. (in block letters)
  Name of the department :–––––––––––. (in block letters)

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2022
1045
10. the date on which the appointment  was made to the Sri Lanka animal Production and Health Service :–––––––––––.
 i declare that the above particulars are correct and that i am entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium 
indicated above. further i am prepared to abide by the conditions enacted by the commissioner General of Examinations 
with regard to the conduct of the examination.
 Examination fee Rs. :–––––––––––.
 Paying Office :–––––––––––.
 Receipt No. :–––––––––––.
To affix the receipt (keep a Photostat copy of the receipt)
  –––––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of candidate.
date :–––––––––––.
commissioner General of Examinations,
through director General, department of animal Production and Health,
forwarded :–
i certify that the candidate whose particulars appear above is eligible to sit for the examination and that he/ she has 
qualifications to sit for the examination in the medium stated  in the application.
* I also certify that the receipt, paying the prescribed examination fee, has been duly affixed by the candidate.
i attest the candidate's signature.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature and designation of Head of department.
date :–––––––––––.
(Place the rubber stamp)
(*May be deleted, fee not been paid)
06–361
––––––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of AGRICuLTuRE
Second Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers in Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health 
Service -2018(2022)
it is hereby notified that the Second Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in the Sri Lanka animal Production and Health 
Service is expected to commence in October, 2022 and to be held in Kandy. Applications are called from the officers who 
were in the Sri Lanka animal Production and Health Service as at 01st August 2022.
2. Time tables will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations 01 and 02 at the 
same time.
3. The Syllabus and rules and regulations relevant to efficiency bar examinations II are stated in the service minute
Officers can sit for all subjects  in one attempt or several attempts.
4.  The prescribed subjects for the efficiency bar examination II are given below.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2022
1046
Examination detail :
Paper Subject No. Duration (hours) Aggregate Pass Marks
Part 01 01 03 100 40
or
Part 02 02 03 100 40
and
Part 03 02 papers should be answered from part 03
Paper 01 03 03 100 40
Paper 02 04 03 100 40
Paper 03 05 03 100 40
Paper 04 06 03 100 40
Paper 05 07 03 100 40
Paper 06 08 03 100 40
Paper 07 09 03 100 40
Paper 08 10 03 100 40
Paper 09 11 03 100 40
Paper 10 12 03 100 40
Paper 11 13 03 100 40
5. Syllabus for the examination :
Paper Subject No. Syllabus
Part 01 01 Sections 2:1, 2:2, 4:1, 4:2, 5:2, 5:8, 6:5, 7:2:1, 8:2, 8:2:2, 8:2:3, 8:3:1, 9:2,
9:4, 9:6, 9:7 of the Syllabus.
Part 02 02 Sections 1:1:1, 1:1:4, 1:2:1, 3:2, 3:1:1, 3:1:2, 3:2:1, 10:1:1, 10:1:2, 10:1:3,
10:1:4, 10:1:6, 10:2:1, 10:2:8, 10:4:1 of the Syllabus
Paper Subject No. Syllabus
Part 3
Paper 01 03 Epidemiology
Paper 02 04 Livestock Economics
Paper 03 05 V eterinary Public Health
Paper 04 06 agriculture Extension
Paper 05 07 Genetics and Breeding
Paper 06 08 animal Physiology and reproduction
Paper 07 09 Housing for animals and Management
Paper 08 10 animal Nutrition
Paper 09 11 Pasture and fodder
Paper 10 12 applied V et. Microbiology and  immunology
Paper 11 13 applied Medicine, Pathology and Parasitology

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2022
1047
Note.– The candidates who sit for 2nd Efficiency Bar 
Examination should select either part 01 or 02 and two 
question papers from the above Xi papers in Part 03. 
candidates should obtain at least 40% marks   for each paper.
6. this Examination will be conducted in Sinhala,t amil 
and  English.  only  at  Examination  centers  established  in 
Kandy. Permission will not be given to change the medium 
applied by the candidate later.
7. the application should be in the form of the specimen 
appended to the notification and should be prepared on A4 
size paper using both sides of it.it should be noted that the 
cages 01 to 06 should appear on page 1 of the paper and 
the balance on the other side of the paper.the application 
should be filled by the candidate. The applications which are 
not prepared as per the specimen form and the incomplete 
applications forms will be rejected without informing the 
candidate. the candidate is advised to keep a Photostat copy 
of the application for his use. further the  candidate  should  
check  the  applications  prepared  by himself  with  the  
specimen  application  appeared  in  the notice. the name of 
the   examination  should  be  wrriten  in  English  too  in  the 
applications prepared in Sinhala or tamil Medium.
8. the Examination  will be conducted by the commissioner 
General of Examinations and candidates are bound to abide 
by rules and regulations enacted by him. the relevant rules 
and regulations are appeared at the end of this notice if a 
candidate violates any of the rules is liable to punishment at 
the discretion of the commissioner General of Examination.
9. applications should be forwarded through the Head 
of  department/institute  by  registered  Post  to  reach  the 
director General of animal Production and Health, to the 
address given below on or before 01st august 2022. the 
applications   received   after   the   closing   date   will   be rejected.
the director General of animal Production and Health, 
department of animal Production and Health,
P.o. box 13, Getambe,
Peradeniya.
10. the   applicants   those   who   have   forwarded   
the accurately  completed  application  including  their  
language medium in which they wish to appear at the 
examination, applicant’s   signature   and   certification   of   
departmental Head, and the receipt when it is prescribed to 
pay the fee before or on the date of receiving applications 
indicated in the notice, will be issued the admissions by the 
commissioner General of Examinations. a paper notice will 
be published by the department of Examinations as soon 
as the admission cards are issued to the candidates. if the 
admission card is not received 2-3 days after the publication 
of the notice,  it should be informed to the department of 
Examinations as stated in the notice. there, the candidates 
are informed to indicate  candidate’s  full  name, address,  
National  identity card Number and the Examination applied 
for. the candidates who reside outside colombo should 
make the inquiry to the fax number given in this notice 
stating his/her fax number in the request to obtain a copy 
of the admission card. It is useful to keep certified Photostat 
copies of the application and receipt of the payment and 
receipt of the registration in your possession.
11. the  claims  submitted  later  by  the  candidates  who 
have failed to fulfill the requirements as stated in the above 
paragraph 10 will not be considered.
12. only the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons or the valid passport 
will be accepted for the Examinations conducted by the 
department of Examinations in order to prove the identity 
of the candidate at the Examination Hall. the applicant's 
signature in the application as well as in the admission 
card should be certified by the Head of the Department 
or by an autorized person. the applicant should appear 
for the Examination being seated in the place where your 
Examination number has been indicated and the certified 
admission card should be produced to the examiner on the 
Examination day. the applicant who does not produce the 
certified admission card will not be allowed to sit for the 
Examination. 
13. fees will be levied from the candidates who sit for the 
examination on the following basis.
(a) No fees will be levied from candidates who sit for 
this Examination for the first time.
(b) for each subsequent sitting
 for whole Examination  :  Rs. 1,200.00 
 Single subject :    Rs. 400.00
candidates who have already sat for this Examination or 
the  ones  those  who  have  applied  previously,  are  required 
to  pay  the  relevant  fees  as  indicated  above.  the  above 
Examination  fees  should  be  paid  to  any  post  office/sub 
post office or Divisional/District Secretariat situated in the 
island to be credited to Revenue Head No. 20-03-02-13 of 
the commissioner General of Examination and the receipt 
of it should be affixed to the edge of the relevant  cage in 
the application. further it may be useful to keep a Photostat 
copy of it.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2022
1048
14. Issuing of an admission card to a candidate will not be considered that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to 
sit for the Examination.
15. if Sinhala /tamil or English language versions of the Gazette notification are comparative the Sinhala versions 
will be accepted.
 Dr. K. a. C. H. a. KotHalawala,
 director General of animal Production &  Health.
20th june, 2022.
MiNiStRy of aGRicuLtuRE
seConD eFFiCienCy Bar examination For tHe oFFiCers in sri lanKa animal ProDuCtion anD 
HealtH serviCe - 2018(2022)
(the name of the examination should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope.) 
Language medium of examination  Sinhala - 2
  tamil - 3
  English - 4
  (Give the relevant number in the box)
01.  (i)  full name (in block letters) :––––––––––––––.
   (Ex: HERatH MudiyaNSELaGE SaMaN KuMaRa GuNaWaRdHaNE)
  (ii) Last name with initials (in block letters) :––––––––––––––. 
   (Ex: GuNaWaRdHaNE H.M.S.K.)
  (iii) full name (in Sinhala/t amil) :––––––––––––––.
02. Postal address (for dispatch of admission card) (in block letters) :––––––––––––––.
     
03. Male / female :  female - 1
    Male - 0
    (write the appropriate number in the cage)
04. Nic number :
05. Mobile No. :
06. Subjects selected with the number as indicated in the paragraph 04 of the notification (Should be written clearly) :
Subject No. Subject
07. State whether you have sit for whole or a part of this Examination. if so state the subjects, year and month :––––––––.
08. date of  birth : y ear :                     Month :                           date :

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2022
1049
09. Name of the designation :–––––––––––. (in block letters)
  Name of the department :–––––––––––. (in block letters)
10. the date on which the appointment  was made to the Sri Lanka animal Production and Health Service :–––––––––––.
 i, declare that the above particulars are correct and that i am entitled to sit for the Examination in the language medium 
indicated above. further i am prepared to abide by the conditions enacted by the commissioner General of Examinations 
with regard to the conduct of the examination.
 Examination fee Rs. :–––––––––––.
 Paying Office :–––––––––––.
 Receipt No. :–––––––––––.
To affix the receipt (keep a Photostat copy of the receipt)
  –––––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of candidate.
date :–––––––––––.
commissioner General of Examinations,
through director General, department of animal Production and Health,
forwarded :–
i, certify that the candidate whose particulars appear above is eligible to sit for the Examination and that he/ she has 
qualifications to sit for the Examination in the medium stated  in the application.
* i also certify that the receipt, paying the prescribed Examination fee, has been duly affixed by the candidate.
i attest the candidate's signature.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature and designation of Head of department.
 (Place the rubber stamp)
date :–––––––––––.
(*May be deleted, fee not been paid)
06–362
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.