

<!-- page 1 -->

1A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'10'27
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2022
w;s úfYI
wxl 2303$29 - 2022 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 27 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2022'10'27
No. 2303/29 -  thursdAy ,  OctOber  27,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial Councils Notifications
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  PG 6021 — 08 (10/2022)
LIVELIhOOD MANAGEMENT SERVICES (LMS) STATUTE No. 1 Of 2022 
PROVINCIAL COUNCIL, NORThERN PROVINCE
by virtue of powers vested upon me, under section No. (1) of the Livelihood Management services (LMs.) statute No. 1 of 
2022 of Northern Province;
I, Jeevan thiagarajah the Governor of Northern Province under the provisions of Article  154c of the 13th amendment 
to the constitution of the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka and by Proclamation made by his excellency the President 
under Article 154t of the said constitution I Jeevanthiagarajah, Governor Northern Province do by this order appoint 27th  
October 2022, as the date on which this statute shall come into operation.
 Governor,
 Northern Province.
Northern Provincial council, 
Provincial council complex, 
A9 road, Kaithady,
Jaffna,
27th  October 2022.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'10'27
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2022
2A
NortherN  ProviNcial  couNcil
Livelihood Management Services (LMS) Northern Province
A  stAtute  tO  PrOVIde  FOr  the  estAbLIshMeNt  ANd  tO  reGuLArIZe  the  AcIVItIes  OF  
LIVeLIhOOd  MANAGeMeNt   ser VIces  OF  the  NOrtherN  PrOVINce  ANd  FOr  MA tters   
cONNected  thereWIth  Or  INcIdeNtAL  theretO  be
It enacted by the Northern Provincial council of the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka as follows: -
by virtue of powers vested to the honourable Governor under the provisions of Article 154  ‘c’  of  the  13th   
amendment  to  the  constitution  of  the  democratic  socialist republic of sri Lanka and by proclamation 
made by his excellency the President under  article  154  ‘t ’  of  the  said  constitution  and  published  
in  the  Government Extraordinary Gazette No. 1 dated 27 of October 2022. I, Jeevan thiagarajah, the 
Governor of the Northern Province do hereby establish a Livelihood Management services under the 
name of  LIVELIhOOD MANAGEMENT SERVICES (LMS) IN  ThE  NORThERN  PROVINCE”  
having  the  following  structure,  Powers, duties and Functions as hereinafter provided.
this aforesaid statute established on 27th  October 2022 in the Extraordinary Gazette and may be 
cited as the Northern Province Livelihood Management services statute No. 1 shall come into operation 
on such date the Governor of the Northern Province may give his assent thereto.
It is Located at the council in Jaffna district.
Part i
1. Objectives of the Statute
1.  The objectives of this Statute which is established under the Northern Provincial 
Administration shall be to:-
 1.1. essential services networks 
 1.2. ensure food supply
 1.3. t o protect poor from poverty 
 1.4. supply essential needs
 1.5. Marketing Formal and non-formal community based products 
 1.6. Management services for small entrepreneurs
 1.7. Livelihood sustainability for economically and socially marginalized citizen. 
	 1.8.	 Recognize	pre-existing	skills	for	 certification
PART II
2. Powers, Role, Responsibility and functions of Livelihood Management Services
 2.1.   Lifting the poor from poverty, raising their standard of living and promoting their productive 
and income generating capacities
 2.2. Formulate Provincial Livelihood development programs in consultation with all stakeholders 
in line with the bottom- up planning approach to create a delivery network through effective 
programs for essential services
 2.3. create market and sales networks for families and community groups
 2.4. ensuring food supply
Short Title 
and Date of 
Operation
Location
Objectives  of this 
Statute
functions, Role 
and Responsibil-
ity of Livelihood 
Management 
Services

<!-- page 3 -->

3A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'10'27
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2022
 2.5.  Management  services  for  small  enterprises  of  economically  and  socially oppressed people
 2.6.  Linking small entrepreneurs with markets
 2.7.  Helping		those	with	pre	skills	obtain	National	Vocational	qualifications
 2.8.  to  enter  into  and  implement  such  agreements  and  conventions  as  may  be necessary to promote  
the development of livelihood activities and the objectives of this Act
   2.9. to perform all other duties necessary and expedient for the proper and effective execution of the 
statute.
3.   Management  of Council
 3.1 the administration , management and control of the Livelihood Management services council 
shall be governed by the council of Management ( hereinafter referred to as the “ council of 
Management”).
 3.2 Managing director , to preside over this ; (hereinafter referred to as “Managing director”)
 3.3  t o achieve the objectives of the Livelihood Management services the council shall advise the 
Managing director
 3.4  the council shall consist the following persons;
 3.4.1 Managing director
 3.4.2 Assistant commissioner for co-operative development (head Quarters) of Northern 
Provincial council
 3.4.3 secretary, Local Government of Northern Provincial council.
 3.4.4 deputy chief secretary, Finance of Northern Province treasury
 3.4.5 secretary to the chief Minister’s Ministry who should be a member of Northern 
Provincial council
 3.4.6 A representative of the Ministry of Northern Provincial council who is responsible 
for the particular subject
 3.4.7 A representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, Northern Provincial council
 3.4.8 A representative of the department of rural Industry and development of Northern 
Provincial council
 3.4.9 A representative of the department of social services, Northern Provincial council
 3.4.10 district representatives of Farmers, Fishermen, livestock breeders’ societies etc in 
Northern Province
 3.4.11 district representatives of rural development societies and Women development 
societies.NP
 3.4.12.  One representative from each of the Multipurpose co-operative societies. NP 
(hereinafter referred to as “designated members”) the name under sub sections 3.4.6, 
3.4.7, 3.4.8, and 3.4.9, named by the respective head of the department. As mentioned 
in 3.4.10 and those referred in 3.4.12 suitably named by the district co-operative 
council, to whom it may be referred in sub section 3.4.11 name of the representatives  
sent by the registered societies under the department
 3.5 Livelihood Management services (LMs) Managing director (Md) to be appointed by hon. 
Governor, Northern Province seconded from existing department cadre in the NPc
 3.6 the Managing director shall be paid such remuneration as may be determined by   
the Governor with the approval of Northern Provincial council and the Managing director may 
be	removed	from	office	if	required,	for	reasons	specified	therefore;
 3.7 Whenever the Managing director is unable to execute or perform any of his duties due to the 
reasons of sickness or absence from sri Lanka or for any other reason,    
with	the	concurrence	of	the	Governor	the	Council,	may	appoint	any	other	senior	officer	of	the	
council to act in his place during such absence
 3.8 Powers of the Managing director
 3.8.1. Administering provision of Livelihood Management services
Management of 
Council
Appointment 
of Managing 
Director of the 
Livelihood Man-
agement Services
Powers of the 
Managing  
Director

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'10'27
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2022
4A
 3.8.2 ensure its sustainability
 3.8.3	 To	perform	duties	as	a	Manager	for	Livelihood	Management	Services	in	all	five	
districts in Northern Province
 3.8.4 supervision, control, and Managing district Livelihood Management services
 3.9 Organizational structure
 3.9.1 Managing director is the head of the Organizational structure
	 3.9.2	 The	Managing	Director	will	appoint	persons	with	recognized	qualifications	in	the	
fields	of	Economic,	Administration,	and	Technology	as	his	subordinates’	staff	with	
concurrence of the Governor
	 3.10		 Designated	member	of	the	Council	shall	hold	the	office	for	a	period	of	three	years	from	his/
her	date	of	appointment	unless	his/her	office	is	terminated	in	advance	by	death,	resignation	
or	removal	from	office
 3.11 Any member appointed by the hon. Governor of Northern Province may remove themselves 
From	office	only	after	obtaining	written	permission	of	Governor	specifying	the	reasons
 3.12 Any appointed member if he/she wants to resigns from his/her position at any time he/she may 
resign through a letter addressed to the Governor and sent by registered post
 3.13 Member in any manner referred in the above sub sections from 3.10 to 3.12, in case of resignation, 
hon. Governor can nominate another person as a member to replace him/her subject to the 
provisions of sub sections from 3.10 to 3.12 of the section 3 above
  Any member appointed for the vacant position should cover the remaining balance term of the 
previously appointed member
	 3.14	 A	nominated	member	has	sickness	,	physically	not	fit	or	absent	in	the	country	for	a	period	of	not	
less than three months, when temporarily unable to perform duties it is mandated to inform 
to hon. Governor in writing regarding his /her inability
 3.15 considering such information according to the subsection from 3.4.2 to 3.4.12 in section 3 one 
can be appointed to act the position, by the hon. Governor
4. Rules and Procedure of meeting of the Livelihood Management Services Council
 4.1 the forum a meeting of council shall consists 5 members
 4.2 As a chairperson, the Managing director shall be head every meeting, If his/her absence to any 
meeting	such	meeting	be	presided	over	by	an	ex-officio	member	elected	by	the	members
 4.3 All questions for decision at any meeting of the council shall be decided by a majority vote of 
the members present at such meeting. In case of equality of votes, the chairman in addition to 
his/her	own	vote	he/she	must	have	one	vote	for	final	decision
 4.4 the meeting and carrying out functions of the said meetings shall regulated by the council
 4.5 No proceeding of the council shall be invalidated merely by reason of any vacancy in the 
council or by reason of any defect in the appointment of a member of the council
 4.6 the payment to the members of the council should be made as may be determined by 
the Governor according to approval granted by the treasury in such manner
5. financial Arrangements of Livelihood Management Services
 5.1 self – Funding of Livelihood Management services
 5.2 Maintenance of a separate account for the same in a recognized bank.
 5.3 For Livelihood Management services through the means mentioned below funds will be 
collected;
 5.3.1 Provision of funding arrangement from time to time made by Northern Provincial 
council for Livelihood Management services
 5.3.2 Funds received from National and International project organizations and 
development institutions
Organizational 
Structure
Period of the 
service of 
member
Resignation and 
removal of the 
Member
Acting arrange-
ment of the 
member
Rules and Proce-
dure of meeting 
of the Livelihood 
Management 
Council
Payment for the 
Council members
funding of  
Livelihood  
Management 
Service

<!-- page 5 -->

5A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'10'27
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2022
financial 
Management
 5.3.3 requirements of Foreign grants, donations related to the matters of Livelihood 
Management services with prior written approval from the department of external 
resources
 5.3.4. cash assistance received from other means of donations
6. financial Management
	 6.1		 The	Council	is	empowered	to	carry	out	financial	management	and	 control
 6.2  Fund activities of Livelihood Management services should be used to carry out the activities to 
achieve its objectives and to complete its tasks
7. Disqualification for being a Council Member
	 A	person	referred	under	sub	section	3.4,	from	3.4.2	to	3.4.12	in	section	3	shall	be	disqualified	from	
being appointed or continued as a Member of the council in the following situation;
 7.1 If a Member or becomes a Member of Parliament, or any of the Provincial councils or any 
of the Local Authority
 7.2 If he/she declared as insolvent or undercharge insolvent under any law in sri Lanka or any other 
country
 7.3 If he/she is found or revealed to be paranoia under any law in force in sri Lanka or any other country
 7.4 If he/she is convicted of an offence involving immorality and punishable with imprisonment for 
a term not less than six months
 7.5 If he/she is serving or serving a sentence of imprisonment imposed by a court of sri Lanka or 
any other country
 Or
	 7.6	 As	 he/she	fulfills	his/her	duties	as	a	Council	Member,	If	he/she	has	any	interest	including	finance	
or any other related interest which may affect the performance of the institution
Part iii
8. Computational activities of Livelihood Management Services
 8.1 books of account shall be maintained as per approved accounting procedures
 8.2 cash payments must be made by cheques and the council shall determine the signatory
 8.3 the council shall cause appropriate accounts to maintain all income and expenses of the 
Livelihood Management services.
	 8.4	 All	 annual	statement	of	income	received	 and	financial	expenditure	for	the	following	year	
shall	be	prepared	at	the	beginning	of	each	financial	year	from	the	1
st of January to december 31st 
to be submitted to the council not later than 31st of March
9. Audit
 9.1	 A	qualified	auditor	recommended	by	the	Council,	to	be	appointed	by	the	Northern	Provincial	
co-operative commissioner with the approval of the Governor, Northern Province to audit the 
accounts of the Livelihood Management services
	 9.2	 A 	qualified	Accountant	must	be	able	to	act	quickly	and	prepare	annual	report	with	his	/	her	
recommendations	and	comments	on	financial	administration	under	auditing	principles	of	income	
and expenditure of Livelihood Management services
	 9.3	 An	 audit	report	prepared	by	a	qualified	auditor	as	stated	in	10.2	above	to	be	forwarded	to	
Governor, deputy chief secretary, Finance and treasury
	 9.4	 The	 provisions	of	Article	154	of	the	Constitution	and	any	financial	rule	for	the	time	being	in	force	
shall be applicable to the audit of the accounts of the institution
Disqualification 
for being a  
council member
Computational 
activities of 
Livelihood 
Management 
Services
Audit

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'10'27
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2022
6A
 9.5 remuneration and disbursements of the Auditor shall be paid from the fund of the Livelihood 
Management services
Part IV
10. General
 10.1 the Managing director should be prepared annual report and to be submitted the previous year 
report to the Governor before March 31st of every year
 10.2 regulations can be made by Governor for the purpose of carrying out or giving effect to 
the provisions of this statute
 10.3 All regulations made by Governor should be published in gazette
 10.4 A notice of the date on which the regulation considers to be repealed shall be published in the 
gazette
 10.5 Livelihood Management services should be treated as a scheduled institution within the bribery 
Act (chapter 26) and the meaning of the provision of this statute should be arranged accordingly
	 10.6	 No	suit	or	prosecution	shall	lie	against	any	member	of	the	Council,	officer	or	service	provider	
of the institution for any provision done or deemed to have been done by them in good faith of 
the institution under this statute or on the activities of the council
 10.7 under this statute, with the request of the council any member mentioned in chapter 3 under 
sub section from 3.4.2. to 3.4.12.Any expenses claimed in any suit or prosecution against any 
such person for any activity done or purported to have been done by such person referred to 
shall, if the court determines that such activity was done in good faith, be paid out of the funds 
of the institution
  In this statute, unless the occasion otherwise requires-
   “Governor” means the Governor of the Northern Province
  “ Written Laws” means any statute and subordinate legislation and includes statutes made by 
Northern Provincial council and orders, proclamations, rules, by– laws, and regulations made 
or issued by any group or any person empowered under any law to make or provide them
 11. In case of any inconsistency between tamil, sinhala and english texts of this Act the tamil text 
shall prevail on the subject of inconsistency
_______________________________________
NORThERN PROVINCE TOURISM BUREAU STATUTE
No. 2 Of 2022
Provincial Council Northern Province
I, Jeevanthiagarajah the Governor of Northern Province under the provisions of Article 154c of the 13th 
amendment to the constitution of the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka and by Proclamation 
made by his excellency the President under Article 154t  of the said constitution I Jeevanthiagarajah, 
Annual report
Livelihood 
Management 
Services should 
be treated as a 
scheduled 
institution
Protection      
against litigation
Meaning
Tamil text to 
prevail in the 
case of 
inconsistency
eOG 11-0249/1

<!-- page 7 -->

7A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'10'27
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2022
Governor Northern Province do by this order appoint 27 th October 2022, as the date on which this statute 
shall come in to operation.
 Governor,
 Northern Province.
27th  October 2022,
Northern Provincial council 
Provincial council complex, 
A9 road ,Kaithady,
Jaffna.
eOG  11-249/1
NORThERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL TOURISM BUREAU STATUTE
Northern Province
A stAtute tO PrOVIde FOr the estAbLIshMeNt ANd tO reGuLArIZe the AcIVItIes 
OF the tOurIsM bureAu OF the NOrtherN PrOVINce ANd FOr MAtters cONNected 
thereWIth Or INcIdeNtAL theretO be
It enacted by the Northern Provincial council of the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka as follows:
by virtue of powers vested to the honourable Governor under the provisions of Article 154 ‘c’ of the 13 th 
amendment to the constitution of the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka and by proclamation made 
by his excellency the President under article 154 ‘t’ of the said constitution and published in the Government 
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2 dated 27th of October 2022 . I, Jeevanthiagarajah, the Governor of the 
Northern Province do hereby establish a tourism bureau under the name of “TOURISM BUREAU IN ThE 
NORThERN PROVINCE” having the following structure, Powers, duties and Functions as hereinafter 
provided. this aforesaid statute established on 27th October 2022 in the Extraordinary Gazette and may be 
cited as the Northern Province tourism bureau statute No. 2 shall come into operation on such date the 
Governor of the Northern Province may give his assent thereto.
Location of Tourism Bureau
It is Located at the council in Jaffna district.
PART I
Establishment of Tourism Bureau of the Northern Province
 1. (1.i)  there shall be established for the purpose of this statute,a bureau called the tourism bureau 
of the Northern Province (herein after referred to as the “bureau”).
  (1.ii) the bureau shall, by the name assigned to it by this section be a body corporate and shall  
   have perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name
 2. the objects of this bureau shall be–
  (2.i) t o promote and develop tourism within the Northern Province in accordance with the National Policy 
on tourism
	 	 (2.ii)	 To	develop	and	promote	adequate,	attractive	and	efficient	tourist	services,	inclusive	of	the	hospitality	
Short Tile and 
Date of 
Operation
Location
Establishment of 
Tourism Bureau.
Objects of the 
Bureau.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'10'27
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2022
8A
industry in a sustainable manner within the Northern Provincial council Limit subject to the 
Provision of tourism Act,No.38 of 2005
  (2.iii)  t o collect information and publish such information, maps and other matters relating to tourism 
within the Northern Province in collaboration with recognized tourism Associations of sri Lanka;
  (2.iv) t o encourage and collaborate with persons or bodies of persons in the private and / or public sector 
in the promotion of the tourism industry and the promotional and training activities connected with 
such industry within the Northern Province
  (2.v)  t o work towards the enhancement of tourism and travel sectors in order to secure contribution for 
the expansion and development of sri Lanka’s economy
  (2.vi)  t o work in collaboration with the sri Lanka tourism development Authority established under 
section 2 of  the tourism Act, No.38of 2005
  (2.vii)  to develop Northern Province as a tourist and travel destination both in sri Lanka and abroad
  (2.viii)  develop revenue generation mechanisms directly or in partnership with state or commercial entities 
in the leisure sector within and outside of the country
 3.  (3.1)  the affairs of the bureau shall be administered and managed by the board of Management 
(herein after referred to as the “board”),which shall consist of the following
	 	 (3.i.i)		 The	Deputy	Chief	Secretary–Finance	Northern	Province	(Ex-Officio)
  (3.i.ii) Five other members (hereinafter referred to as the “Appointed Members”) appointed by hon. 
Governor (hereinafter referred to as “the Governor”) as follows each of whom shall possess 
recognized	qualifications		and		have		distinguished		themselves		in		the		fields	of	Tourism
	 	 (3.ii)		 The	Governor	shall	appoint	a	person	who	is	having	qualifications	and	experience	in	the	field	of	
tourism as a chairman of the bureau, who shall be the chairman of the board of Management
	 	 (3.iii)	 Every	appointed	member	shall	unless	he	vacates	office	earlier	by	death,	resignation	or	removal,	
hold	office	for	a	term	of	three	years	from	the	date	of	his	appointment	and	shall	unless	he	has	been	
removed, be eligible for re appointment
	 	 (3.iv)	 The	Governor	may,	if	he	considers	it	expedient	to	do	so,	remove	from	office	any	appointed	member	
after assigning reasons
	 	 (3.v)	 Any	appointed	member	may,	at	any	time	resign	his	office	by	letter	addressed	to	the	Hon.	Governor	
sent by registered post
	 	 (3.vi)	 In	the	event	of	vacation	of	office	by	death,	resignation	or	removal	of	any	appointed	member,	the	
Governor may having regard to the provisions under this statute, appoint any other person to 
succeed	such	member.	Any	member	so	appointed	shall	hold	office	for	the	unexpired	term	of	office	
of the member whom he/she succeeds
	 	 (3.vii)		Where	an	appointed	member,	by	reason	of	illness,	infirmity	or	absence	from	Sri	Lanka	for	a	period	
of not less than three months, is temporarily unable to perform his duties, it shall be the duty of such 
member to inform the Governor in writing of such inability. the Governor may, on receipt of 
such information, having regard to the provisions  under  this  statute  appoint  some  other  person  
to  act in his/her place
4.  (4.i)  the quorum for a meeting of the board shall be three members 
  (4.ii)  the chairman shall preside at every meeting of the board. In the absence of the chairman 
from any meeting of the board, a member elected by the members present shall preside at 
such meeting
  (4.iii) All questions for decision at any meeting of the board shall be decided by the vote of majority of 
members present at such meeting. In the case of an equality of votes, the chairman shall, in 
addition to his/her vote have a casting vote
  (4.iv) subject to the preceding provisions of this section, the board  may regulate the procedure in 
relation to the meetings of the board and the transaction of business at such meetings
Constitution of 
the Board of 
Management of 
the Bureau
.
Quorum and 
meetings of the 
Board.

<!-- page 9 -->

9A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'10'27
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2022
5.  No act or proceeding of the board shall be invalid by reason only of the existence of any vacancy in 
the board or any defect in the appointment of a member of the board
6.   the members of the board shall, with the approval of the Provincial council be remunerated in 
such manner and at such rates as may be determined by the Governor
7.			 A	person	referred	to	in	paragraph	(3.iii	to	3.vi)	in	sub	section	3	shall	be	disqualified	from	being	
appointed or continuing as a member of the board
  (7.i) If he/she is elected as a Member of Parliament, Member of  any Provincial council or any local 
Authority;
  (7.ii)  If he/she has been declared an insolvent or an un-discharged bankrupt under any law in sri Lanka or 
any other country 
  (7.iii) If he/she is under any law in force in sri Lanka or any other country found or declared to be of 
unsound mind;
  (7.iv)  If he/she is convicted of an offence involving in moral turpitude and punishable with imprisonment 
for a term not less than six months; 
  (7.v) If he/she is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment or a suspended sentence for over six- 
month imprisonment imposed by a court of sri Lanka or any other country; or
	 	 (7.vi)		 If	he/she	has	any	financial	or	other	interest	as	is	likely,	to		affect	prejudicially	the	discharge	by	him/her	
of his/her functions as a member of the board.
8.  (8.i). the seal of the bureau shall be in the custody of such person as the board may decide from 
time to time
  (8.ii)  the seal of the bureau may be altered in such manner as may be determined by the board
	 	 (8.iii)		 The	seal	of	the	Bureau	shall	not	be	affixed	to	any	instrument	or	document	except	with	the	sanction	of	
the board and in the presence of two members of the board nominated by the board itself who shall 
sign the instrument or document in token of their presence
  (8.iv) the  board  shall  maintain  a  register  of  the  instruments and documents to which the seal of the 
Bureau	has	been	affixed
9.    the powers, functions and duties of the bureau shall be–
  (9.i)  t o act in consultation with the sri Lanka tourism development Authority established under the 
provisions of section 2 of the tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005;
  (9.ii) t o plan, implement, generate revenue and develop tourism in the Province
  (9.iii) t o  assist  the  sri  Lanka  tourism  development  Authority in operating tourist enterprises and 
providing tourist services and to coordinate the activities of the persons operating tourist enterprises 
and providing tourist services within the Northern Province
  (9.iv)  to acquire, hold, take on lease, hire, pledge or otherwise dispose of any movable or immovable;
  (9.v) t o co-ordinate, assist and encourage studies, researches and trainings that are essential to achieve the 
objects of this bureau;
  (9.vi) t o receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or kind, provided that, the board shall obtain a prior 
written approval of the department of external resources of the Government in respect of all 
foreign grants, gifts or donations made to the bureau
  (9.vii) to enter into such contracts and agreements as may be necessary for the  furtherance of the objects of 
the bureau
	 	 (9.viii)	To	appoint,	employ,	terminate,	remunerate,	exercise	disciplinary	control	over	and	dismiss	officers	and	
servants required for the carrying out of the objects of the bureau; and
  (9.ix) t o do all other things as are necessary or expedient for the proper and effective carrying out of the 
objects of the bureau.
Acts or 
proceedings 
of  the Board 
deemed not to be 
invalid by reason 
of any vacancy.
Remuneration of 
the members of 
the Board.
Disqualification 
from being a 
member of the 
Board.
Seal of the 
Bureau.
Powers,   
functions and 
duties of the 
Bureau
.

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'10'27
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2022
10A
PART II
Staff of the Bureau
10.		 (10.i)		There	shall	be	appointed	through	the	recruitment	procedure	by	the	Hon.	Governor	a	fit	and	
proper	person	to	be	the	Director	of	the	Bureau,	who	shall	be	its	Chief	Executive	Officer
  (10.ii) the director shall be entitled to be present at all meetings of the board and to speak at such meetings, 
but shall not be entitled to vote at any such meetings
  (10.iii) the director shall, subject to the general direction and control of the chairman and the board, be 
responsible for the conduct of all affairs  of  the  bureau,  including the  administrative  control  of 
the officers	and	employees	of	the	Bureau
  (10.iv) the director shall be paid such remuneration as may be determined by the Governor with the 
approval of the Provincial council
	 	 (10.v)	 The	Governor	may	with	reasons	assigned	therefor	remove	from	office	the	Director	appointed	under	
subsection (10.i)
  (10.vi) Whenever the director is by reason of illness or absence from sri Lanka or for any other cause unable 
to discharge or perform any of his functions or duties, the Governor may with the concurrence of the 
Board,	appoint	any	other	senior	officer	of	the	Bureau	to	act	in	his	place	during	such	absence
11.		 (11.i)		The	Board	may	appoint	such	officers	and	other	employees	as	it	considers	 necessary	for	
the	efficient	exercise,	discharge	and	performance	of	its	powers,	functions	and	duties	under	
this statute 
	 	 (11.ii)	 The	officers	and	other	employees	appointed	under	subsection	(3.ii)	shall	be	remunerated	in	such	
manner and at such rates and shall be subject to such conditions of service, as may be determined by 
the board
12.		 At	the	request	of	the	Board,	any	officer	in	the	public	service	may,	with	the	consent	of	the	Secretary	to	
the Ministry in charge of the subject of tourism , Governor of the Northern Province shall appoint 
the staff of the bureau for such period as may be determined by the board from the Provincial cadre
PART III
fund
13.  (13.i)  the bureau shall have its own Fund
  (13.ii)  there shall be paid into such Fund
 (13.ii.i)  All such sums of money as may be voted upon from time to time by the 
Northern Provincial council for the use of the bureau 
 (13.ii.ii) All such sums of money granted by the Government
 (13.ii.iii)  All such sums received by way of grant, donation and gift etc. and
  (13.iii)  All such sums collected by way of the following
 (13.iii.i)  For consultancy services offered to individuals/ organizations regarding 
establishing any tourism related services.
 (13.iii.ii)  For consultancy services offered to Local Authorities in establishing tourist 
destinations.
 (13.iii.iii)  For publication of tourism related
 (13.iii.iv)  For value addition, training programs me to small and medium level entre-
preneurs who are involved in making souvenirs / memorable items
  (13.iv)  All other sums otherwise accruing to the credit of Fund of the bureau under this statute or by 
any other written law
fund of the 
Bureau.

<!-- page 11 -->

11A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'10'27
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2022
  (13.v)  there shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums of money required to defray the expenditure 
incurred by the bureau in the exercise, discharge and performance of its powers, functions and 
duties.
14.		 The	financial	year	of	the	Bureau	shall	be	the	calendar	year.
15.  (15.i.) the board shall cause proper books of accounts to be kept of the assets and liabilities, income 
and expenditure and all other transactions of the bureau.
  (15.ii.) the provisions of section 23(1) and 23(2) of the Provincial councils Act, No. 42 of 1987, shall apply 
in this regard and the accounts of the Northern Province tourism bureau shall be audited annually by 
the	Auditor	General	or	a	Qualified	auditor	appointed	by	the	Auditor	General	in	terms	of	Article	
154 of the constitution of the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka.
PART IV
General
16.  the director may with the approval of the board and whenever he considers it necessary to do 
so,	delegate	to	any	officer	of	the	Bureau,	any	function	or	duty	imposed	on	or	assigned	to	him	and	
such	officer	shall	discharge	and	perform	such	function	or	duty,	subject	to	the	direction	and	control	of	
the director
17.   (17.i)  the director shall cause to be prepared an annual development plan in respect of the 
following year accordance with the Long term Plan and submit to the board and in turn 
to the hon. Governor every year on or before 31 st of  March
  (17.ii)  the director shall cause to be prepared and submit a detailed report of the activities relating to 
previous year to the board and in turn to the hon. Governor on or before 31st of March every year
  (17.iii)  the hon. Governor shall present such report to the Provincial council within 3 months of receipt of 
same.
18.  the Governor may, time to time issue such general or special directions to the board relating to the 
exercise, performance and discharge of the powers, functions and duties under this statute and it 
shall be the duty of the board to comply with such directions
19.		 All	members	of	the	Board,	officers,	employees	and	agents	of	the	Bureau	shall	be	deemed	public	
officers	within	the	meaning	and	for	the	purpose	of	the	Penal	Code	(Chapter	19)
20.  the bureau shall be deemed a scheduled Institution within the meaning of the bribery Act (chapter 
26) and the provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.
21.  (21.i) No action or prosecution shall be instituted-
 (21.i.i) Against the bureau, for any act, which in good faith is done or purported to be done 
by the bureau under this statute; or
	 (21.i.ii.)	 	 Against	any	member,	officer	or	employee	of	the	Bureau	for	any	act	which	in	good	
faith is done or purported to be done by him under this statute or on the direction of 
the board
  (21.ii)  Any expenses incurred by any such person as is referred to in subsection (21.i.ii), in any action 
or prosecution instituted against him/her in respect of any act which is done or purported to be done 
by him/her under this statute or on the direction of the board, shall be paid out of the Fund of the 
bureau, if the court holds that such act was done in good faith
financial year.
Accounts and 
audits.
Director may 
delegate his 
functions.
Annual report.
Directions of the 
Minister
All members of 
the Board etc. 
deemed to be 
public officers.
Bureau deemed 
to be a Scheduled 
Institution.
Protection of 
action

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'10'27
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2022
12A
22.  the Governor may make regulations for the purpose of carrying out or giving effect to the principles 
and provisions of this statute
  (22.i) every regulation made by the Governor under section (1), shall be published in the Gazette and 
shall	come	into	operation	on	the	date	of	such	publication	or	on	such	later	date	as	may	be	specified	
in the regulation
23.  Where any provision of this statute is contrary to any provision of the tourism Act, No. 38 of 
2005, the provisions of the tourism Act, No.38 of 2005 shall supersede
24.  In the event of any inconsistency between the tamil, sinhala and english texts of this statute, the 
tamil text shall prevail
Provisions of 
Tourism Act, 
No. 38 of 2005 to 
supersede.
Tamil text to 
prevail in the 
case of 
inconsistency
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
Regulation.
eOG 11-0249/2