

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2012
45
45
wxl 1"741 - 2012 ckjdß 13 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'01'13
No. 1,741 – FRIDAY , JANUARY 13, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 48
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 58
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th January, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06th
January, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2012
46
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2012
47
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2012
48
Posts – Vacant
SRI  LANKA  REGULAR  AIR  FORCE
OFFICER  CADET  AND  LADY  OFFICER  CADET  V ACANCIES
VACANCIES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force for Officer Cadets and Lady Officer Cadets in the following branches:
(a) General Duties Pilot Branch (Male)
(b) Technical Engineering (Male and Female)
(c) Electronics Engineering (Male and Female)
(d) Logistics Branch (Male and Female)
(e) Administrative Branch (Male and Female)
(f) Administrative Regiment Branch (Male and Female)
(g) Operations Air Branch (Male).
2.  Applications are invited from male/female candidates possessing the qualifications given below:-
BSc (Aviation Studies) Degree Entrant Qualifications (Accredited by the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence
University).
General Duties Pilot /Logistics/ Administrative/Administrative Regiment and Operations Air Branches :
A minimum of six passes at the GCE O/L Examination with four Credits including Credit passes in English language,
Mathematics, Science and an ordinary pass in Sinhala /Tamil language in one sitting (additional and optional subjects
not considered) and ordinary passes in three subjects at the GCE A/L Examination in Physical/Bio Science/Commerce
Stream (as applicable) in one sitting.
Technical Engineering and Electronics Engineering Branches :
A minimum of six passes at the GCE O/L examination with four credits including credit passes in English language,
Mathematics, Science and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language in one sitting (additional and optional subjects
not considered) and ordinary passes in three subjects at the GCE A/L examination in the Physical Science Stream in one
sitting.
3. Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfill the following general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular Air
Force :–
(a) Nationality : Must be a Citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Age : Not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years as at 01st May, 2012 ;
(c) Height : Male - 5 feet 6 inches and above ;
Female - 5 feet 4 inches and above ;
(d) Weight : 17< BMI < 26
BMI  = 
Weight (kg)  
Height2 (m)
(e) Chest : Male - 32" (minimum )
(f) Vision Colour : Standard : CP 2
(g) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (without spectacles)
(h) Civil Status : Candidates must be unmarried. No cadet will be permitted to marry whilst under training and for a
further period of one (01) year from the Date of Commissioning.
4. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
5. Applications of candidates who do not fulfill the requirement of para. 2 and 3 will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview
the height, vision and weight will be measured. Candidates whose height, vision and weight  are below the standard specified in the Gazette

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2012
49
Notification and who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed. Any candidate who may have a special skill or value to the service
may at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered even though he / she may not have the requisite height pr ovided
he / she possesses the requisite academic and professional qualifications.
6. Conditions of service :–
(a) The candidate is to initially enlist in the Air Force as a Cadet on a regular engagement in the same manner as for Other
Ranks and will undergo a Basic Combat Training Course. On successful completion of training, the duration of which
will depend on the branch, the status allocated on his / her enlistment as an Other Rank will lapse and will receive a
Permanent Commission in the rank of Pilot Officer.
(b) Cadets will be required to undergo training at a place in Sri Lanka or abroad as decided by the Commander of the Air
Force in consultation with the Ministry of Defence.
(c) During the period of training as Cadets and thereafter, personnel will be subject to Air Force Law.
(d) Every Cadet will be provided all items of uniforms, equipment and medical facilities.
(e) During the period of training, a Cadet will be accommodated in an Air Force Mess and will be provided with food.
(f) In the event of a Cadet voluntarily terminating his/her candidature for a commission during training, the parent or
guardian will be required to refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka all expenses incurred up to that time by the Republic
of Sri Lanka on account of such Cadet.
(g) If at any time during his / her course a Cadet is reported by the authorities as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct
or due to causes within his/her control to qualify for a commission, his/her parent or guardian will be required to refund
to the Sri Lanka Air Force all expenses incurred on his/her training and will be required to enter into a bond to this effect
with the Commander of the Air Force acting on behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka.
(h) Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given in cage 27 of the application form in respect of sub-paragraphs (f) and
(g) above, and forward them together with the application. Parent or guardian will be required to enter into a bond
subsequently in this form with the Republic of Sri Lanka prior to the appointment of these candidates as Cadets.
(i) Candidates who possess the requirement as per para. 2 and 3 will be called for the Preliminary Interview and if
successful will be called for the Officer Quality Tests. Candidates who pass the Officer Quality Tests will be called for
Medical Examinations (All candidates selected will be medically examined under Sri Lanka Air Force arrangements) and
if applicable Flying Aptitude Tests. Candidates who successfully complete these tests will be called for the Final
Interview. The required number of candidates per branch will be selected according to merit at these interviews and
tests.
(j) A single Officer is required to live in the Officers Mess. He /She is provided with furnished accommodation and food.
Batman Service will be provided. A single Officer’s Ration Allowance and Batman Allowance are paid to the Mess.
(k) A married Officer may be provided with a married quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as applicable to public
servants.
(l) All Officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any part of the world at any time.
(m) All Officers are governed by the Air - Force Act and orders issued from time to time.
7. Official Language Requirements.–  The selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules already made or may
hereafter be made for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Republic of Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the provisions
the Official Language Act No. 33 of 1956.
8. Pay and Allowances:-
(a) Consolidated pay rate.– The scale of consolidated pay applicable to Officer Cadets and Commissioned Ranks shall be
as follows :–
Officer Cadet - Rs.l80,240 p.a. ;
Pilot Officer - Rs. 229,200 p.a. ;
Flying Officer - Rs.275,220 - 34 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380 p. a. ;
Flight Lieutenant - Rs.321,660 - 28 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380 p. a. ;
Squadron Leader - Rs.352,620 - 24 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380 p. a. ;
Wing Commander - Rs.362,100 - 20 x 9,480 - Rs. 551,700 p. a. ;
Group Captain - Rs.441,060 - 18 x 12,600 - Rs. 667,860 p.a. ;

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2012
50
(b) Other Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowance of Rs. 5,850 per month.
(2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five years of service.
(3) Hardlying allowance Rs. 600 per month.
(4) Enhanced allowance Rs. 5,000 per month for those serving in operational areas.
(5) Special enhanced allowance Rs. 3,000 per month (Rs.100 - will be paid for each working day).
(6) Interim allowance Rs. 1,000 per month.
(7) Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month.
(8) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted to live out).
(9) Ration allowance Rs. 11,464.50 per month (if permitted to live out).
(10) Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
(11) Special Allowance 5% of consoidated salary.
(12) Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (For Officer, spouse and children).
(13) An additional set of railway warrants or the reimbursement of bus fare for Officers living in Messes to travel from
the Mess to the hometown once a month.
(14) Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
(15) Free medical facilities (including for families if applicable).
(16) Married Officers permitted to live-out are entitled to a free bus pass to travel from residence to place of work within
30 miles radius.
(17) Flying pay for those in the General Duties Pilot Branch.
(18) Rent allowances for married Officers not in occupation of a government married quarter. Pilot Officer to Group
Captain and above Rs. 1,600 to Rs. 4,250 per month.
9. Pensions/Gratuities:- Payable in terms of the Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to time.
All Officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Force) Scheme. Rate of contributions are as per Widows a nd
Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.
10. Instructions to Applicants :
(a) Applications should be submitted in applicant’s own hand writing in terms of the form specified below. All cages of
the application should be completed neatly with as much details as possible. Applications should be forwarded under
registered cover to “CHIEF RECRUITING OFFICER, SRI LANKA AIR FORCE, EKALA, KOTUGODA” so as to
reach him not later than 1200 noon on 31st January, 2012. The envelope enclosing the application should be marked
“APPLICATION FOR CADETSHIP/2012 LADY CADETSHIP IN THE ............................ BRANCH”. A candidate
will be allowed to apply for only one branch, those who apply for more than one branch the applycation will be
rejected. Applications received after the closing date and not in accordance with the requirements of this notification
and not in registered post mail will not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their applications
through their Heads of Departments/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should bear a certificate to the
effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the following documents when summoned for interviews or
when called upon to do so:-
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth (Certificate issued for the purpose of the Education Code will not be
accepted)
(2) Certificates in support of the educational qualifications required for the branch applied for.
(3) Certificates of trade/technical training and/or experience (if any) obtained from a recognized institution.
(4) Two recent certificates of character. One of these should be from the Principal of the last school attended and the
other from a responsible person who has the know of the applicant for more than two years or from the present
employer (if employed).
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities, cadeting etc.
(d) Applications of candidates who fail to produce documents when requested to do so will not be considered.
(e) No documents or original copies of documents should be attached to the application form.
(f) The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any originals of certificates if enclosed with the application form.
11. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if discovered after selection.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2012
51
12. Selection Interviews etc. :–
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those candidates who fulfill the above conditions. Candidates so selected
will be required to undergo tests as may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The final selection will
then be made after an interview of those selected candidates by a selection board appointed by the Ministry of
Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in writing of the place, time and date of such interviews.
Travelling or other expenses will not be paid in this respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an interview he / she is to produce his / her National Identity Card
issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(d) Candidates likely to be suitable for their final interviews will be required to present themselves before an Air Force
Medical Board.
(e) Anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his / her testimonial. Any form of canvassing
or attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
HD A
BEYWICKRAMA,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P.O. Box 594,
Colombo 02.
APPLICATION  FOR  OFFICER  CADET/LADY OFFICER CADET IN THE ................................
BRANCH OF THE SRI LANKA AIR FORCE
1. Nationality :–––––––––––––.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if latter, quote number and date of certificate).
2. Full name (As per the National Identity Card) :–––––––––––––.
3. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––––.
4. Permanent address :–––––––––––––.
5. Postal address :–––––––––––––.
6. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
(Age as at 01st May, 2011) :
Years :–––––––––––––, Months :–––––––––––––, Days :–––––––––––––.
7. Height :–––––––––––––.
8. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :–––––––––––––.
9. District :–––––––––––––.
10. Electorate :–––––––––––––.
11. G .S. Division :–––––––––––––.
12. Telephone Number :–––––––––––––.
13. Married or Single :–––––––––––––.
14. Gender :–––––––––––––.
15. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications obtained :
Name of School/University Type of Examination Year of Examination Subjects passed (including grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Other

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2012
52
16. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University (if applicable) :
Name and address of employer Nature of employment Period of service
From                  To
17. Particulars of parents :
Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present address
Father
Mother
18. Any special qualification for the post :––––––––––––.
19. Details of current achievements in sports (Give details of teams and competitions participated with dates / years etc. and s tandards/
levels achieved) :––––––––––––.
20. Other achievements of note at School/University or with outside organizations (Give details with dates / years etc.) :–––––– –––.
21. Any previous service in the Armed Force or V olunteer Force, Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :––––––––––––.
22. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the outcome
of such applications :––––––––––––.
23. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military court, if so give details :––––––––––––.
24. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the Public Sector / Board / Corporation (including the Central Bank, National
Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled by the Government etc.) reasons for termination of employment :––––––.
25. Particulars of testimonials :
Name Designation Postal Address
26. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :–
I declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.
I have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates wh o
are selected for Commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
27. Declaration to be signed by the Parent or Guardian of the applicant :
(a) I am the Parent / Guardian of ....................... who is an applicant for a Cadetship in the Sri Lanka Air Force and who has signed
the declaration in Cage 26 of the form of application above.
(b) I hereby undertake to be responsible in the event above-named applicant being selected for a course of training for the
following :–
(i) To refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of the above-named applicant voluntarily terminating his / her
candidature for a Commission during his/her period of training all expenses incurred up to that time by the Republic
of Sri Lanka on account of such applicant.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2012
53
(ii) To refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of the above-named applicant reported on by the authorities as
being unsuitable (For reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his/her own control) for the issue of a Commission
all the expenses incurred on his/her account by the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Parent/Guardian.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name  :––––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
Address :––––––––––––.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of First Witness.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name  :––––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
Address :––––––––––––.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Second Witness.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
Address :––––––––––––.
01–208
–––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  AIR  FORCE
Officer Vacancies
V ACANCIES exist for Male/Female Commissioned Officers in the
Regular/V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the following
branches :
(a) Technical Engineering Branch,
(b) Electronics Engineering Branch,
(c) Dental Branch,
(d) Administrative Veterinary Branch,
(e) Administrative Agriculture Branch,
(f) Administrative Legal Branch,
(g) Administrative Education Branch.
2. Applications are invited from those candidates possessing the
professional qualifications given below :
(a) Technical Engineering Branch :
Technical Engineering Officers - Male (Regular)
* Full time four (4) year BSc. in Mechanical/Automobile
Engineering from a recognized University or three (3)
year full time National Diploma in Technology (NDT)
in Mechanical Engineering from the University of
Moratuwa or three and half (3 1/2) year full time Higher
National Diploma in Mechanical Engineering (HNDE)
from Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological
Education.
(b) Electronics Engineering Branch
Electronics Engineering Officers - Male (Regular)
* Minimum of four (4) year BSc. Engineering Degree in
Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering or four
(4) year BSc. Degree in Physical Science (Major) with
Electronics/Telecom as a main subject or three (3) year
BSc. Physical Science Degree with Electronics/Telecom
as a main subject or three (3) year Diploma in
Electronics/Telecom Engineering.
Network Administrator – Male/Female (Regular)
* Four (4) year BSc. Engineering Degree in a computer
related stream or three (3) year BSc. Degree in a
computer related stream or BSc. Degree with Computer
Science as a major subject or HND or NIBM Diploma
or equivalent with sound knowledge and experience in
Network Administration.
Software Developer – Male/Female (Regular)
* Four (4) year BSc. Engineering Degree in a computer
related stream or three(3) year BSc. Degree in a
computer related stream or BSc. Degree with Computer
Science as a major subject or HND or NIBM Diploma
or equivalent with sound knowledge and experience in
Software Development using ASP.NET and C#.NET.
Information/Cyber Security Specialist - Male/
Female (Regular)
* Four (4) year BSc. Engineering Degree in a computer
related stream or three (3) year BSc. Degree in a

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2012
54
computer related stream or BSc. Degree with Computer
Science as a major subject or HND or NIBM Diploma
or equivalent with sound knowledge and experience in
information/cyber security.
Web Designers - Male(Regular)
* A four (4) year BSc. in Computer Engineering/IT/
Computer Science or a three (3) year BSc. in Computer
Engineering/IT/Computer Science or a three (3) year
IT related degree or BSc. degree with Computer Science
as a subject or HND or NIBM Diploma or equivalent
qualification with more than one (1) year experience in
web designing related responsibilities.
* Preference will be given to those with experience and
knowledge on HTML/XHTML/HTML 5, CSS
(Cascade Style Sheet), JavaScript. JQuery, flash action
script, PHP, MySQL, ASP.NET, MSSQL.
Note :
* All candidates except for Electronics Engineering
Officers are required to sit for a written and a practical
test.
* All BSc. qualifications should be from Universities
recognized by the University Grants Commission of
Sri Lanka.
(c) Dental Branch :
Dental Officers - Male/female (Regular/Volunteer)
Flight Lieutenant  : BDS or equivalent with full
registration with the Sri Lanka Medical Council.
Dental Students - Male/Female (Regular) :
Pilot Officer : Cmpleted 2nd BDS and beginning of 3rd
year.
Flying Officer : Completed final BDS Part I and studying
in the final year.
Note :
(1) Selected Dental Student candidates will be required to
serve an obligatory period of 10 years from the date of
Commission to the rank of Flight Lieutenant.
(2) Selected students will be released from the Sri Lanka Air
Force until completion of final year. They will also be
commissioned in the rank of Flight Lieutenant on
completion of BDS Degree and full registration with the
SLMC.
(3) Opportunities will be granted for Post Graduate studies
depending on the exigencies of the service.
(4) Dental students to submit a certificate from their respective
Universities about their year of studies.
(d) Administrative V eterinary Branch :
Veterinary Officers - Male (Regular/Volunteer)
* Bachelor of Veterinary Sciences from the University of
Peradeniya or equivalent with Sri Lanka Veterinary Council
Registration.
(e) Administrative Agriculture Branch :
Agriculture Officers - Male (Regular)
* BSc. in Agriculture or equivalent recognized by the
University Grants Commission of Sri Lanka.
(f) Administrative Legal Branch :
Legal Officers - Male/Female (Regular/Volunteer)
* Attorney-at-Law with a minimum of one (1) year
experience.
(g) Administrative Education Branch :
English Language Instructors - Male (Regular/
Volunteer)
* Three passes at G . C. E. A/L Examination in any subjects
with successfully completion of three (3) years Teacher
Training Course as an English Language Teacher at the
"National College of Education" and one (1) year
experience as an English Language Teacher after successful
completion of the training course ; or
* Three passes at G . C. E. A/L Examination in any subjects
with successful completion of two (2) years Teacher
Training Course as an English Language Teacher at the
Government Teachers Training College of Education and
three (3) years experience as an English Language Teacher
after successful completion of the training course ; or
* A Degree BA/BSc. with English Language as a subject or a
Degree B. Ed. (Bachelor of Education) in English or a
Degree B.A./BSc. in English medium with one (1) year
experience as a professional English Language Teacher in
all categories ; or
* Bachelor Degree (B.A./BSc.) and Diploma in Education
or Master Degree (MA/MSc.) with English Language as a
subject or Master Degree (MA/MSc.) in English medium
with one (1) year teaching experience as a professional
English Language Teacher in all categories.
3. Other Entry Requirements :
(a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(b) Civil Status : Married/unmarried
(c
) Gender : Male/Female (As applicable)
(d) Height : Male - 5' 5" and above
: Female - 5' 4" and above

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2012
55
(e) Weight : Body Mass Index should according
to the Physical Efficiency Test
Standards of the Sri Lanka Air Force
Weight (Kg)
BMI ––––––––––
Height
2(m)
(f) Age : As at 31st January, 2012
(1) Technical Engineering : Not more than 30 years
and Electronics
Engineering branches
(2) Dental Branch -
Dental Officers : Not more than 35 years
Dental Students : Not more than 30 years
(3) Administrative Veterinary
Administrative Agriculture
Administrative Legal and
Administrative Education
Branches : Not more than 35 years
(g) Chest : Minimum 32" (Male)
(h) Colour Vision : CP2
Standard
(i) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (With
or without spectacles)
4. Any candidate who may have a special qualifications may at
the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered,
even though he/she may not have the requisite height provided he/
she possesses the requisite professional qualifications.
5. Be medically fit so as to pass such medical examinations as
may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force.
6. Due considerations will be given to current outstanding
achievements in the field of sports.
7. Official Language Requirements.- Selected candidates will be
required to comply with any rules already made or may be made
hereafter for giving effect to the language policy of the Republic of
Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the provisions in the
Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Selected candidates will be commissioned in the Regular/
V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the rank of Flying
Officer, Flight Lieutenant or Squadron Leader as applicable in
keeping with their qualifications and experience.
9. Selected candidates will be required to undergo training at
such places as decided by the Commander of the Air Force. If at
any time during training, the officer is reported on by the authorities
as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to causes
within his/her control, he/she will be liable to have his/her
commission withdrawn and/or be subject to other disciplinary action
in accordance with the Sri Lanka Air Force Disciplinary Regulations.
10. All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders
issued from time to time.
11. The conditions of service for an officer of the Sri Lanka Air
Force are in terms of Sri Lanka Air Force Regulations published in
Gazette No. 10,240 of 27th April, 1951 and as amended from time
to time. In terms of Section 10 of the Air Force Act, “Every officer
shall hold his/her appointment during the president’s pleasure”.
However an officer has no right to resign his/her commission
unilaterally, but under provision of section 11 of the Air Force Act
may be allowed by the President to do so. The provisions of any
Bond/Agreement envisaging a period of obligatory service in respect
of training and subsequent courses will not supersede the provisions
of section 11 of the Air Force Act, stated above. Retirement from
the Air Force will be applicable under conditions specified in the
Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code.
12. All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any
part of the world at any time.
13. A single officer is required to live in  the Officers Mess. He/
She is provided with furnished accommodation and food. Batman
service will also be provided. A single officer’s ration allowance and
batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
14. A married officer may be provided with a married quarter if
available. Recovery of rental will be as per the Establishment Code.
Married officers not in occupation of married quarters will be entitled
to a rental allowance as stated in para 15( b)(17).
15. ( a) Pay applicable for commissioned officers shall be as
follows :
Pilot Officer – Rs. 229,200 p. a.
Flying Officer – Rs. 275,220 - 34 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Flight Lieutenant – Rs. 321,660 - 28 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Squadron Leader – Rs. 352,620 - 24 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Wing Commander – Rs. 362,100 – 20 x 9,480 =
Rs. 551,700 p. a.
Group Captain – Rs. 441,060 – 18 x 12,600 =
Rs. 667,860 p. a.
(b) Pay applicable to Dental Officers :
Grade II - Rs. 337,140 - 8 x 7,800 - Rs. 399,540 p. a.
Grade I - Rs. 412,140 - 15 x 12,600 - Rs. 601,140 p. a.
(c) Other allowances applicable to Dental Officers :
(1) Pensionable allowances
Grade II – Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade I – Rs. 3,400 per month
(2) Non pensionable allowances :
Grade II – Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade I - Rs. 400 per month
(3) Extra duty allowances - Rs. 12,500 per month
(4) Extra duty payments
Grade II - Rs. 280 per hour
Grade I - Rs. 300 per hour

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2012
56
(5) Service allowances indicated in paragraph 15(d) are to
be calculated separately as applicable.
(d) Service Allowances :
1. Cost of living allowance Rs. 5,850 per month.
2. Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five
years of service.
3. Hardline allowance Rs. 600 per month.
4. Enhanced allowance Rs. 5,000 per month for those
serving in operational areas.
5. Special hard allowance Rs. 3,000 per month (Rs. 100
will be paid for each working day).
6. Interim allowance Rs. 1,000 per month.
7. Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month.
8. Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted
to live out).
9. Ration allowance Rs. 11,464 per month (if permitted
to live out).
10. Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum
of Rs. 637.50 per month).
11. Sepcial allowance 5% of consolidated salary.
12. Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for
officer, spouse and children).
13. An additional set of railway warrants or the
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes
to travel from the Mess to the hometown once a month.
14. Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
15. Free medical facilities (including for families if
applicable).
16. Married officers permitted to live out are entitled to a
free bus pass to travel from residence to place of work
within 30 miles radius.
17. Rent allowance for married officers not in occupation
of a government married quarter. Pilot Officer to Group
Captain and above Rs. 1,850 to Rs. 4,250 per month.
18. Service allowance Rs. 300, Rs. 400, Rs. 500 as
applicable (Payable to service Dental Branch Officers
in consideration to the number of complete years of
service)
19. Additional service allowance Rs. 1,500 per month
(applicable to service Dental Branch Officers only).
16. Pensions/Gratuities .- Payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to
time. All officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans
Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions are as per
Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970.
17. Instructions to applicants :-
(a) Applications should be submitted in terms of the form
specified below. All cages of the application should be
completed neatly with as much details as possible.
Applications should be addressed to “Chief Recruiting
Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda” so as to
reach him not later than 1200 noon on 23rd January, 2012
under registered cover. The envelope enclosing the
application should be marked  “Application for
Commission in the ........... Branch” Applications received
after the closing date and not in accordance with the
requirements of this notification and not in registered
post mail will not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Department/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should
bear a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be
released if selected.
(c) Applicants should attach to their applications copies of :
1. Certificate of Registration of birth ;
2. Certificates of the highest academic and professional
qualifications obtained ;
3. Certificates of character from at least two
responsible persons who are personally acquainted
with the applicant.
4. Certificates in support of sports activities, cadetting
etc.
5. Certificate in support of any claims made in the
application.
*Note.- Originals of these certificates should be produced only
if and when the applicant is called for the interviews.
18. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to dismissal if
discovered after the selection.
19. Selection interview :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those
candidates who fulfil the above conditions only.
Candidates so selected from the Preliminary Interview
will be required to undergo a medical test as may be
prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The final
selection will then be made after an interview appointed
by the Ministry of Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in
writing of the place, time and date of such interviews, No
travelling or other expenses will be paid in this respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an
interview he/she is to produce his/her National Identity
Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(d) Candidates likely to be suitable following their final
interviews will be required to present themselves before
an Air Force Medical Board.
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should
do so by giving his/her testimonial. Any form of

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2012
57
canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a
candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will
not be notified.
H. D. ABEYWICKRAMA,,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION FOR COMMISSION IN THE SRI LANKA
REGULAR/VOLUNTEER AIR FORCE
IN THE ................ BRANCH
1. Nationality :–––––––––––.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration
and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
2. Full name (As per the National Identity Card) :––––––––––.
3. National  Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
4. Branch applied :––––––––––.
5. Post applied :–––––––––––.
6. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
7. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :–––––––––––.
8. Postal address :–––––––––––.
9. Date of birth :–––––––––––.
10. Height :–––––'––––––".
11. District :–––––––––––.
12. Electorate :–––––––––––.
13. Grama Seva Division :–––––––––––.
14. Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
15. Civil status :–––––––––––.
16. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications
obtained :
Name of Schoo/ Type of Year of Subjects passed
University examination examination (including
grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Professional
Qualifications
Other
17. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University (if
applicable ) :
Name and address Nature of Period of Service
of employer employment From  To
18. Particulars of parents :
Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present
address
Father
Mother
19. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
20. Details of current achievement in sports. (Give details of teams
and competitions participated with dates/years etc. and
standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––––.
21. Other achievements of note at School/University or with
outside organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) :
–––––––––––.
22. Any previous service in the Armed Force or V olunteer Force,
Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :–––––––––––.
23. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any
of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the
outcome of such applications :–––––––––––.
24. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military
court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
25. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the
Public Sector/Board/Corporation (including the Central Bank,
National Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled
by the Government etc.,) reasons for termination of
employment :–––––––––––.
26. Particulars of testimonials :
Name Designation Postal Address
27. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions
are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I have
read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the
rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected for commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published in the
Gazette of the Repubilc of Sri Lanka.
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
01–285

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2012
58
DEPARTMENT  OF  MOTOR  TRAFFIC
Written Examination for Registration of Driving
Instructors – Year 2012
APPLICATIONS are received up to 2012.02.14    From qualified
Sri Lanka citizens to sit the written test for registration of driving
instructors in the Department of Motor Traffic. This examination
will be held in Colombo on 2012 May.
1. Qualifications .– Candidates should possess the following
qualifications to appear for this examinations
(i) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Be not less than 25 years of age ;
(iii) Have passed the General Certificate of Education
(Ordinary Level) Examination with 06 subject including
Mathematics and Language ;
(iv) Have a license obtained at least 5 years prior to the date
of application to drive vehicles of the class for which he
applies to be a Driving Instructors.
*(Must not hold a post under the Government/ State
Corporation or statutory Board)
2.  Method of Examination :-
(a) This examination will be held in Sinhalese, Tamil and
English medium. (Language medium in which the
candidates have qualified).
(b) A candidate must sit all the papers of the examination in
one and the same language. A candidate will not be
permitted to change the language medium of the
examination indicated in the application.
3. Subject relevant to the Examination .- This question paper
consists of two parts relating to Motor vehicles administration;
(i) Motor Vehicle Administration I – Time 01 Hour
(ii) Motor Vehicle Administration I – Time 02 Hours and 30
minutes
Part I will be consist 50 Multiple Choice type Questions
(MCQ). Part II will be consist 5 questions. All 5 questions
must be answered. The first question is compulsory and
that includes 10 short answer questions.
4. Syllabus.– Both these question papers consist of questions
relating to Road Traffic Rules of Sri Lanka, Technical Knowledge of
Motor Vehicles and Driving Skills.
The paper will be designed to cover the subject mentioned below:
(a) Attributes of a driver; as only a good driver will make a
good driving instructor.
(b) Responsibilities, attitudes and skill of driving instructor
as a teacher.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
(c) Provisions on driving school and driving instructors laid
down in the Motor Traffic Act.
(d) Knowledge on constructions and regulations of the Motor
Traffic Act.
(e) Knowledge on Highways code and the relevant Gazette
Notifications.
(f) Construction and regulations of the Motor Traffic Act.
Regulations relevant to driving schools and driving
instructors.
(g) Driving Training Manual and Driving Instructors’
Handbook and their syllabuses.
(h) Knowledge on maintenance and functions of the vehicle
and knowledge on the main systems of a vehicle.
* Knowledge on the engine and gear box.
* Knowledge on the steering wheel system and its functions.
* Knowledge on the suspension system and its functions.
* Knowledge on the break system and its functions.
* Knowledge on the electrical system and its functions.
5.  Method of selection. – Candidate who have obtain 40% in
each paper or more marks at the written test will be called for an
interview to verify their qualification and the candidate who have
been selected at the interview will be called for a practical test.
6. Method of Application :-
(a) Application should be in the form of the specimen
appended to the notification and it should be prepared in
8 ½" X 12" size (foolscap) papers and filled by the candidate
he / she in his/her own handwriting.
(b) The application should be in the language in which the
candidate intends to sit the examination.
(c) The completed application form for the examination should
be sent by registered post   to reach the "Commissioner
General of Examination, Department of Examination,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla" on or before 14.02.2012. The
words "Written test for Recruitment of Driving
Instructors" should be clearly indicated on the top left
hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
(d) Examination fees .–  The examination fee is Rs. 1,500.
This fee should be paid to the District Secretariat or
Divisional Secretariat office to be credited to Head No.
2003.02.14 of the Commissioner General of Motor Traffic
and the original receipt should be attached to the
application. Candidate should make sure that the completed
application complies with the specimen given in the
examination notice. Applications that do not comply are
liable to be rejected.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2012
59
(e) candidate’s signature in the application should have been
attested by a Principal of a Government School, a Justice
of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney of Law, Notary
Public, Commanded Officer in the Armed Forces, an Officer
holding a gazette post in the Public Service or an officer
holding a permanent post in the Public Service whose
annual initial salary is more than Rs. 240,360.00
(f) Any application that is not completed in every aspect is
liable to be rejected. Complaints regarding the loss or delay
of an application in the post will not be taken into
consideration.
(g) Application will not be acknowledged. A notice will be
published in the newspapers as soon as the admission
cards are issued to applicants, who are advised to be on
the lookout for such a notice. A candidate who does not
receive the admission card at least seven days before the
date of the examination should immediately notify the
Commissioner General of Examination, with the following
particulars;
(a) Name of Examination :–––––––––––.
(b) Full name of candidate :–––––––––––.
(c) Address :–––––––––––.
(d) Date of posting the application, registration number
and post Office :–––––––––––.
(e) Certified photocopy of the receipt of registration
and furnish a Fax number to send the admission card
if the candidate is outside Colombo.
7. Identify of candidates.– A candidate will be required to prove
his/her identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject he/she offers. For this purpose, any of
the following documents will be accepted.
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid Passport.
8.  Issue of an admission card to an applicant does not necessarily
mean that he/she possesses the requisite qualifications to sit the
examination.
9. Candidate should be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examination on conducting
the examination and they are liable to a punishment imposed by
him for breach of the rules.
B. D. L. D
HARMAPRIYA,
Commissioner General of Motor Traffic.
Department of Motor Traffic,
Elvitigala Mawatha,
Narahenpita,
Colombo 05.
WRITTEN EXAMINATION FOR REGISTRA TION OF
DRIVING INSTRUCTORS – 2012
L
ANGUAGE INTEND TO SIT FOR THE EXAMINATION
Sinhalese 02
Tamil 03
English 04
(Write the relevant number in the box)
(This will not be permitted to change)
01. Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(Block Letters) (Exe: PERERA C.R.E.C.)
02. Names denoting Initials :–––––––––––.
 (Block Letters)
03. Full Name :–––––––––––.
04. Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
05. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
06. (i) Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––, Month  :––––––––,  Date  :––––––––.
(ii) Age of the closing date of application :
Years  :–––––––, Months  :–––––––, Days  :––––––––.
07. Educational Qualification :–––––––––––.
08. Professional Qualification :–––––––––––.
09. Postal receipt No obtained on payment of examination fee,
issuing office and date :–––––––––––.
10. Vehicle class applied for :–––––––––––.
11. The candidates :
(i) Driving licence No. :–––––––––––.
(ii) Date of issue :–––––––––––.
(iii) Class of vehicles obtained :–––––––––––.
I declare that the information given by me in this application is
true and correct to the best of my knowledge, and I am aware that
I would be liable to be disqualified to register as a Driving Instructor
and the registration will be cancelled if any declaration is found to
be incorrect. I agree to abide by the conditions pertaining to this
examination.
––––––––––––,
 Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
I certify that the above mention applicant signed before me.
Signature of certifying officer :–––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
01–364
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.