

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
STAMP  DUTY  (SPECIAL  PROVISIONS)
(AMENDMENT)  ACT,  No. 10  OF  2008
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 29th February, 2008]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 4.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 29, 2008

<!-- page 2 -->

1Stamp Duty  (Special Provisions) (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2008
2—PL 002815—6,400 (02/2008)
[Certified on 29th February, 2008]
L. D.— O. 68/2007
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  STAMP  DUTY  (SPECIAL  PROVISIONS )
A CT , NO . 12 OF  2006
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of  Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Stamp Duty (Special
Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 10 of  2008.
(2) The provisions of this Act, shall be deemed for all
purposes to have come into operation from January 1, 2008.
2. Section 6 of the Stamp Duty (Special Provisions) Act,
No. 12 of  2006 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended as follows:—
(1) in paragraph (d) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “credit card holder; and”, of the words
“credit card holder;”;
(2) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph (d), of
the following new paragraphs:—
“(dd) in the case of a warrant to act as Notary Public,
by the person applying for the office of  Notary;
(ddd) in the case of a licence, by the person applying
for the same; and”.
3. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed
and the following section substituted  therefor:—
8. (1) Otherwise than, when stamp duty is
compounded in terms of section 7, the stamp
duty payable on any specified   instrument shall
be paid by means of affixing adhesive stamps to
the required value, prior to, or at the time of, the
Short title and
the date of
operation.
Amendment of
section 6 of Act,
No. 12 of 2006.
Replacement of
section 8 of the
principal
enactment.“Manner of
payment of
stamp duty.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Stamp Duty  (Special Provisions) (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2008
execution of the instrument. The value of the
stamp duty so paid shall be specified on the
face of the instrument so executed:
Provided that, share transfers executed in Sri
Lanka shall be stamped within one month from
the execution of the same.
(2) Stamp duty payable on any specified
instrument relating to a mortgage or lease of any
immovable property may be paid, prior to, or at
the time of, the execution of the specified
instrument, to a prescribed bank. Where however,
the stamp duty cannot be so paid due to reasons
beyond the control of the person by whom the
stamp duty is payable, the stamp duty shall be
paid to the prescribed bank within seven days
from the date of such execution. The bank shall
thereupon issue a certificate in the prescribed
form certifying that the stamp duty  has been
duly paid and such certificate shall be affixed to
the instrument so executed.
(3) Any person executing a specified
instrument shall at the time of the execution of
such specified instrument which is not stamped
with an impressed stamp, cancel the stamps
thereon by writing or marking in ink on or across
each stamp, his name or initials, thereby
preventing the stamp from being used again.
Further, where such specified instrument bears
an adhesive stamp of the value of fifty rupees or
more, such stamp shall be cancelled by the person
executing a specified instrument by perforating
the same by either cutting or pricking the stamp
with a suitable instrument.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Stamp Duty  (Special Provisions) (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2008
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
(4) Any specified instrument bearing an
adhesive stamp which  has not been cancelled in
the manner set out in subsection (3) shall be
deemed to be unstamped to the extent of the
value of such stamp.”.
4. In the event of any inconsistency  between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Stamp Duty  (Special Provisions) (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2008
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMA TION ,  NO . 163,  KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05  before  15th
December each year in respect of the year following.