

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2355$30 - 2023 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 25 jeks nodod - 2023.10.25
No. 2355/30  -  wedNesday,   OctOber  25,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6512 - 366 (10/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
l.d.-b. 3/2021 (II)
ThE  COLOmbO   PORT  CITY  ECONOmIC   COmmISSION   ACT,  No. 11  Of  2021 
reGulatIONs  made by the Minister of Investment Promotion in consultation with the colombo Port city economic 
commission under section 71 of the colombo Port city economic commission act, No. 11 of 2021, read with sub section 
(5) of section 52 of the aforesaid act.
	 Ranil	Wickremesinghe,
 Minister of Investment Promotion.
colombo.
24 October, 2023.
Regulations
 1. these regulations may be cited as the colombo Port city (Guidelines on the Grant of exemptions or Incentives to 
businesses of strategic Importance - duty Free Operations) regulations, No. 3 of 2023.
 2. (1) an authorised person who intends to carry on a business of duty-free retail operations or duty-free mall  
operations	in	and	from	the	Area	of	Authority	of	the	Colombo	Port	City	shall	satisfy	the	requirements	specified	in	sub- 
regulation (3) or (4) respectively.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'25
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.10.2023
2a
 
	 (2)	 Upon	 satisfying	the	requirements	specified	in	sub-regulation	(3)	or	(4)	as	the	case	may	be,	the	duty-free	retail	
operations and duty-free mall operations may be designated as businesses of strategic Importance-duty Free Operations
 (3) an authorised person who intends to carry on the business of duty-free retail operations shall be required to 
satisfy the following requirements: -
  (a) to make a minimum investment of usd Five Million;
  (b) to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the commission that it has global experience in duty-free operations 
and has access to a portfolio of luxury high-end branded retail products;
  (c) to adopt the commission’s passenger entry registration process with seamless integration with the 
department of Immigration and emigration for the validation of permitted customers; and
  (d) to adopt supervision and monitoring of the duty-free retail operational compliances of the sri lanka 
customs in accordance with the colombo Port city (duty-free Operations) rules.
 (4) an authorised person who intends to carry on the business of duty- F ree mall operations shall be required to 
satisty the following requirements: -
  (a) to make a minimum investment of usd seven Million; and
  (b) to adopt the commission’s passenger entry registration process with seamless integration with the 
department of Immigration and emigration for the validation of permitted customers.
 3. upon being designated as a business of strategic Importance-duty free Operations, duty-free retail operations and 
duty-free mall operations shall be entitled to the exemptions from, or incentives under, the enactments set out in schedule II 
to the act, for a period of twenty years from the date of publication of an Order in the Gazette in terms of s ub section (3) of 
s ection 53 of the act.
 4. an authorised person who intends to carry on a business of duty-free retail operations or duty-free mall operations 
shall	satisfy	the	requirements	specified	in	these	regulations	within	a	period	of	three	years	from	the	date	of	publication	
of these regulations in the Gazette  for purpose of becoming entitled for the exemptions or incentives granted under  
regulation 3.
 5. In these regulations -
“act” means the colombo Port city economic commission act, No. 11 of 2021;
“authorised person” shall have the same meaning as in the act;
“colombo Port city (duty-free Operations) rules” means the colombo Port city (duty- F ree Operations) rules No. 
1 of 2023 published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 2333/14 of May 22, 2023;
“commission” means the colombo Port city economic commission established under s ection 2 of the act;
“duty-free mall operations” means operations of an authorised person who develops and manages one or more duty-
free malls consisting of multiple duty-free retail operations and the infrastructute of such duty-free malls within 
the area of authority of the colombo Port city;
“duty-free operations” means duty-free retail operations and duty-free mall operations; and
“duty-free retail operations” means operations of an authorised person who conducts duty-free retail operations in 
accordance	with	the	conditions	specified	in	the	Colombo	Port	City	(Duty-F ree Operations) rules.
eOG 10 - 0259
PrINted at  tHe deP artMeNt  OF GOVerNMeNt  PrINtING,  srI laNKa.