

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'02'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2012
291
291
wxl 1"746 - 2012 fmnrjdß 17 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'02'17
No. 1,746 – FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 17, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 294
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 294
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 24th February, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 10th
February, 2012.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Parts I-III, III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,745 of 10.02.2012 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'02'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2012
292
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'02'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2012
293
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'02'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2012
294
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KALUTARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto. 
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 16th March, 2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
24th January, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called applications should be sent
Kalutara Bandaragama Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Raigam Koralaya Division and Births General, District Secretariat,
and Deaths of Raigama Division Kalutara.
02–467
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
OPEN  AND  LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION
FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO CLASS  III  OF  THE
SRI   LANKA   PLANNING  SERVICE   2011 (2012)
THE term “service” in this notification means the Sri Lanka Planning
Service. (SLPS).
1. Date of Examination .– Examination will be held on May,
2012 in Colombo by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
Public Service Commission reserves the right to postpone or cancel
this examination.
2. Number of Employees to be Appointed and the Date of
Appointment. – The number of candidates to be appointed and
effective date of the appointment will be determined in terms of the
order of Public Service Commission.
3. Condition of the Service. – A selected candidate will be
appointed to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Planning Service subject to

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'02'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2012
295
general conditions of governing appointment of the public service,
conditions prescribed in the Minute of Sri Lanka Planning Service
published in the Extraordinary Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka, No. 1670/32 dated 10.09.2010 and the
amendments made and to be made to the minute hereinafter.
4. Structure and monthly salary scale.- Monthly Salary Scale as
per SL 1-2006 of PA circular No. 06/2006 dated 25.04.2006 :-
SL 1-2006- Rs.22,935-10x645-8x790-17x1,050-Rs.53,555.
5. Qualifications :
5:1 Open Competitive Examination :
(a) Educational Qualifications :
(i) Possession of degree with a first class or second
class degree obtained from a University
recognized by University Grant Commission ;
or
(ii) Possession a degree from a University recognized
by UGC and Postgraduate Diploma with course
duration of not less than one year awarded by a
University recognized by the University Grant
Commission or a Training Institute established
by a Parliament Act.
(b) Physical Fitness.– Every candidate should physically
fit in all aspects to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
 (c) Other Qualifications :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Should be of good moral character ;
(iii) No candidate will be allowed to sit for this
Open Examination more than twice ;
(iv) Any person holding priesthood in any religious
sect will not be eligible to sit for this
examination ;
(v) A person will be treated as eligible to sit for
this for appointment to the service, if the
candidate has fulfilled all required qualifications
referred to in Para 5.1 (a) in all respects above
as at 17.02.2012 (on the date of publication of
the Gazette notification) and copies of
certificates in support of qualifications should
be submitted to the application.
(d) Age.– Age should be not less than 22 years and not
more than 28 years as at 17.02.2012 (on the date of
publication of the Gazette notification).
(e) Written Test (See Appendix 1)
Subjects Maximum Passed
Marks Marks
Comprehension 100 40
Intelligence Test 100 40
General Awareness 100 40
5:2 Limited Examinations :
(a) Educational Qualifications :-
Possession of a degree from a university recognized
by University Grants Commission.
(b) Experience :-
Should have not less than five years of uninterrupted,
permanent and satisfactory period of service in a
permanent post in Government or Local Government
Service which carries a salary scale of MN-1-2006
(A) or above and  possessing qualifications set out
in (A) above on or before the date of publication of
the notice calling for applications in the Gazette.
(c) Physical Fitness :
Every candidate should be physically fit in all
aspects to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
(d) Other Qualifications :
(i) Candidates should be of excellent moral character.
(ii)
Should have earned all increments on the due
dates during the preceding five years.
(iii) Should have put in a satisfactory period of
service during the preceding five years on
17.02.2012 (on the date of publication of the
Gazette notification.)
(iv) No candidate will be allowed to sit for the limited
competitive examination more than twice.
(v) Any person holding priesthood in any sect of a
religion is ineligible to sit this examination.
(vi) A candidate will be deemed to have fulfilled all
requirements to appear for the examination for
appointment to the service , if he has completed
all the necessary qualifications stipulated in Para.
5.2 (A) above on 17.02.2012 (On the date of
publication of the Gazette notification) and
copies of certificates in support of qualifications
should be attached to the application.)

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'02'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2012
296
(e) Method of Recruitment. – Written Examination
(Please see appendix 2)
Written examination Maximum Passed
is based on following Marks Marks
subjects (Minimum)
Comprehension 100 40
Case Study 100 40
Planning 100 40
06. Examination Fees. – Fee for the open competitive
examination is Rs.500 and fee for the limited competitive examination
is Rs.500. If a candidate applied for both examinations the fee
would be Rs.800. The relevant examination fee should be paid to
the credit of Revenue Head No. 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner
General of Examinations at any divisional secretariat before the
closing date of applications. The receipt obtained from the divisional
secretariat should be affixed to the relevant cage in the application.
It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the applicants.
Examination fee will not be refunded under any circumstances.
 07. Method of Application :
(a) Application should be prepared in accordance with the
specimen form attached to this notification using both
sides of a paper size A4 and should be filled by the
candidate himself.
(b) Item 01 to 04 and 05 to 08 should be on the first and the
second pages respectively and the rest should be on the
fourth and the fifth pages. Applications which do not
comply with the specimen form and incomplete
applications will be rejected without prior notice.
Retaining the photocopy of the application with the
candidate would be useful. Further, the candidate should
scrutinize whether the application to be completed is in
conformity with the specimen application setout in the
Gazette Notification of the examination, if not, application
will be rejected. The application should be filled in the
language in which the candidate is eligible to sit the
examination. However, the Heading should be written in
English (Block Capitals) also, when preparing the
application.
(c)  All applications for open competitive examination should
be sent by registered post to the Commissioner General
of Examination, Department of Examinations, Palawatta,
Battaramulla to reach on or before 16.03.2012. The words
“Open Competitive Examination, Planning” should be
written clearly on the top left hand corner of the envelope
containing the application. Applications received after
the closing date will be rejected.
Note: The candidates who are already in public service /
provincial public service and expect to appear for the
open competitive examination should forward their
applications through the Heads of the respective
Departments or establishments.
(d) All applications for Limited Competitive Examination
should be sent through the Head of the Departments by
registered post to the Commissioner General of
Examinations, Department of Examinations, Palawatta,
Battaramulla to reach on or before 16.03.2012. The words
“Limited Competitive Examination, Planning.” should be
written clearly on the top left hand corner of the envelop
containing the application. Applications received after
the closing date will be rejected. If a candidate hopes to
appear for both limited and open competitive
examinations, the words “Limited /Open Competitive
Examinations, Planning” should be written on the top left
hand corner of the envelop.
(e) Applications will not be acknowledged. Immediately after
admission cards are dispatched to the respective
candidates, a press notice to that effect will be published.
If candidate who does not receive his /her Admission
Card after 02 or 03 days of the publication of notification
should notify immediately to the Commissioner General
of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla in that respect
as setout in the notice. It would be more effective if you
send a certified copy of the application and the cash
receipt retained with you the registered receipt and your
request letter with the Fax No. in order to send admission
card if you are outside of Colombo.
08. Admission to the Examination :
(a) Admission cards will be issued by the Commissioner
General of Examinations to all the candidates who have
forwarded their duly filled applications and paid the
relevant examination fees before the prescribed date. The
candidate should produce the admission card to the Head
of the Examination Hall with the signature certified. The
candidates who do not produce his/her admission card
will not be allowed to sit for the examination.
(b) The candidate should sit for the examination at the
examination hall prescribed him/her and all candidates
should hand over their admission card of the relevant
examination hall to the Head of the Examination. The
rules and the instructions to be followed by all candidates
have been published in this Gazette.
(c) Issue of an admission card to a candidate should not be
treated as acceptance of the fact that he/she is qualified to
sit for the examination.
(d) Candidates are brought to abide by rules prescribed by
the Commissioner General of Examinations in respect of
conducting examinations. If they violate any of these
rules they will be liable to punishments imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
 09.  Identity of the Candidate.– Candidate should prove his/her
identity at the examination center to the satisfaction of the supervisor
for every subject appeared by him/her at the examination hall for
this purpose, one of the following documents only will be accepted.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'02'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2012
297
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons.
(ii) A valid passport issued by Department of Immigration
and Emigration.
Note:- Official Identity of the candidate will not be
accepted.
10.  Furnishing Incorrect Information. – If a candidate is found
to be ineligible his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage
prior to, during or after the examination. If any of the particulars
furnished by candidate is found incorrect and has been done so
knowingly that it is incorrect or if he has concealed a material fact
intentionally, he will be liable to dismissed from the public service.
11.  Any matter not provided in these regulations will be dealt
with as determined by the Public Service Commission.
12. Medium of Examination :
   (a) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
media.
  (b) A candidates can sit the examination in any one language
of their choice.
Note: (i) Candidate should answer all the question papers
at the examination only in one language medium.
     (ii) Candidate will not be permitted to change his or
her medium of the examination mentioned in his
or her application.
13. Method of Examination :
  13.1 Open Competitive Examination :–
This is a written Examination consisting of the
following Subjects:
 (I) Comprehension – 02 hours (100 marks)
(II) Intelligence Test – 01 hour (100 marks)
(III) General Awareness – 02 hours (100 marks)
Syllabus is given at the end of this notice.
13.2 Limited Competitive Examination :–
 (I) Comprehension – 02 hours (100 marks)
(II) Case Study – 01 hour (100 marks)
(III) General Awareness – 02 hours (100 marks).
13.3  Interview
Only the candidates score a minimum of forty (40)
marks in each subject will be summoned for interview.
The Public Service Commission will decide the number
of candidates to be called for the interview in order of
merit according to the marks scored by them at the
Written Examination and according to the relevant
number of vacancies as the case may be.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the notices
published in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, the notice
published in Sinhala medium shall prevail.
15. Method of Selection Appointment. – Vacancies are filled in
terms of the conditions and provisions laid down in service minute
published in the Extra Ordinary Gazette  No.1670/32 dated
10.09.2010.
The selection for appointment will be on the results of the
Open or Limited Competitive Examinationd from those who have
scored highest marks in the written examination and duly filled the
basic qualifications. In the event of candidates having tied for a
place, final decision with regard to the selection for such a place
will be taken by the Public Service Commission.
      By the order of the Public Service Commission,
Dr. P. B. J
AYASUNDARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo 01,
On 10th of February, 2012.
Appendix I
Particulars related to the syllabus of the Open Examination
conducted to recruit to the Grade III of the Sri Lanka Planning
Service.
This examination is comprised of the question papers mentioned
below :–
Number Subjects Maximum Pass Time
marks marks
1 Comprehension 100 40 02 hours
2 Intelligence Test 100 40 01 hour
3 General awareness 100 40 03 hours
Syllabus :
Subject Number 01 – Comprehension.
This paper is comprised of two parts :–
Part I
This includes writing an essay and a summary.
Part II
Part – II is comprised of several extracts to examine the language
awareness of the applicant. The candidate will be required to explain
the meaning of the underlined terms of the given extracts in a single
sentence or to write explanatory notes on them or to select the
most accurate answer out of several answers for the question given.
All the questions should be answered.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'02'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2012
298
Subject Number 02 – Intelligence Test
This is compiled with the aim of measuring logical reasoning,
analytical skills and the ability to make most accurate presumptions
of the candidate. This is a multiple choice question paper which
consists so questions.
Subject Number 03 – General Awareness
This paper is designed set to examine candidate’s awareness
about the overall environment of Sri Lanka inclusive of geographical,
political, economic, social and cultural environment and
internationally important contemporary issues as well as the
scientific and technological advancement. All the questions of this
paper should be answered.
Note :
(I) Candidates should sit for all the papers in this
examination in one language.
(II) Candidates are not allowed to change the medium of
examination indicated in their application.
(III) All the candidates should sit for all the three (03)
papers.
(IV) The number of officers recruited at a time is decided
by the Public Service Commission.
Appendix - II
Particulars related to the syllabus of the Limited Examination
conducted to recruit to the Grade III of the Sri Lanka Planning
Service.
This examination is comprised of the question papers mentioned
below :–
Number Subjects Maximum Pass Time
marks marks
4 Comprehension 100 40 02 hours
5 Case Study 100 40 01 hour
6 Planning 100 40 02 hours
Syllabus
Subject Number 04 – Comprehension
Questions are based on the passages given to the candidate. All
the questions should be answered.
Subject Number 05 – Case Study
This paper is designed to test the candidate’s power of thinking
and problem solving abilities. In this paper candidate will be
presented with one or more situations on books and publications
relating to economy and planning of present Sri Lanka and directed
to give solutions. All the questions should be answered.
Subject Number 06 – Planning
The objective of this paper is to test the candidate’s basic
knowledge on principles of planning and strategies of planning. All
the questions should be answered.
Note:  (I) Candidates should sit for all the papers in this
examination in one language.
(II) Candidates are not allowed to change the medium
of examination indicated in their application.
(III) All the candidates should sit for all the three (03)
papers.
(IV) The number of officers recruited at a time is decided
by the Public Service Commission.
Open Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to
Grade III of the Sri Lanka Planning Service – 2011
Index No :
(For office use )
Town Town No:
Whether you apply for Open/Limited Competitive Examination
or both. (Limited-1, Open –2 )Write the relevant
number in the cage. Changing of given examination is
not allowed afterwards.
Medium of Examination :
Sinhalese – 2 , Tamil – 3 , English – 4
(Write the relevant number in the cage )* It is not allowed to
change the medium of examination afterwards.
01. Name:
1.1 Name with initials: Mr. / Mrs. / Miss.  :––––––––––––.
(In Block Letters)          e.g.: Mr. SILVA A.B.
1.2 Full Name :––––––––––––.
 (In Block Letters)
1.3 Full Name :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhalese /Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card :
02. Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(In Block Letters)
2.1 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
 (In Sinhalese/ Tamil)
2.2 Official Address :––––––––––––.
(In Block Letters)
2.3 Official Address :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhalese/ Tamil)
2.4 Address to which the admission card should be sent: (In
Block Letters) :––––––––––––.
(An officer in Public Service / Provincial Public Service should
furnish his / her official address. Any change in the address
should be notified immediately.)

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'02'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2012
299
03. 3.1 Sex :
Female-1, Male-2
(Write the relevant number)
3.2 Marital Status:
Married-1, Single-2
(Write the relevant number)
3.3 Date of birth :
Year : Month  : Date :
 3.4 Age as at 10.02.2012
Years : Months : Days :
04. The Examination Fee paid:  Rupees :––––––––––––.
05. (To be filled by the candidates sitting for the Open
Examination) provide the following particulars :
5.1 Qualifications obtained to be qualified to sit for this
examination under the Para 5.1 of the notification :–––.
5.2 Institutions from which the said qualifications were
obtained :––––––––––––.
06. (To be filled by the candidates sitting for the Limited
Examination) provide the following particulars,
6.1 Qualifications obtained to be qualified to sit for this
examination under the Para 5.2 of the notification :–––.
6.2 Institutions from which the said qualification were
obtained :––––––––––––.
(a)
Department served Post From To Period
(b) (i) Service/Post :––––––––––––.
(ii) Class           : With effect from :––––––––––––.
(iii) Class           : With effect from  :––––––––––––.
(iv) T otal period of Service in the Government as at
10.02.2012 (as at the date of publication of this
notification in the gazette.):
Years :––––––––––––. Months:––––––––––––.
(a) Service in the above II :
Years :––––––––––––.  Months :––––––––––––.
(b) Service in the above III :
Years :––––––––––––.  Months :––––––––––––.
(v) Annual salary as at 10.02.2012 (as at the date of
publication of this notification in the gazette.) :––––––.
7.0 7.1 The years in which you have sat for the limited
Examination for the Recruitment to the Sri Lanka
Planning Service:
1. ____________ 2.____________
3. ____________ 4. ____________
5. ____________ 6. ____________
7.2   The years in which you have sat for the open Examination
for the Recruitment to the Sri Lanka Planning Service
1. ____________
2. ____________
3. ____________
8.0  Affix the receipt firmly to the application.
Affix the receipt here
(i) Number: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
(ii) Date: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
(iii) Place of payment: _ _ _ _ _
(iv) Amount paid: Rupees _ _ _
9.0   Affirmation of the Applicant :
9.1 I declare that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge and belief and the receipt number .............
and dated .................... of the examination fee paid is
here with attached. Further, I agree to act in conformity
with the examination rules and regulations and to abide
by any decision taken to cancel my candidature before
or at the time of or after the examination, if I am deemed
unqualified in terms of the condition relating to this
examination.
9.2 I declare that I have earned all the increment (other than
the increment granted under the condition of passing
service or departmental examinations ) and that I have
not been subject to any disciplinary punishment (other
than warning ) with in five years preceding to 10.02.2012
(To the date of publication of the notification in the
gazette.)
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
10. 10.1 Affirmation of the Head of the Department: (Should be
filled by all the applicants sitting for the Limited
Examination and by the applicants sitting for the Open
Examination only when it is relevant.) The Head of the
office that maintains your personal file should sign as the
Head of the Department.
I hereby certify that ________________________, the
applicant submitting this application is serving in this

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'02'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2012
300
office from ..................... and his/her work and behavior
is satisfactory and personally examined all the particulars
mentioned in above 06 with the reports of this office and
found accurate and he/she placed his/her signature before
me on ............. of ................. 2012.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––.
Name of the Attester :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––. (Confirm with a rubber frank.)
10.2 Attestation (should be filled by the applicants sitting for
the open Examination only when it is relevant.)
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
I certify that the applicant Mr. /Mrs. /Miss. ......... is
known to me personally and that he/she placed his/her
signature before me.
––––––––––––––,
Signature and the Frank of the Attester.
Full Name of the Attester :––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
Note.– The attester should be a Justice of the peace, a Notary
public or a Government Office drawing an annual consolidated
salary of not less than Rs.230,700.
02–633