

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 909
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 908
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"966 – 2016 uehs ui 06 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'05'06
No. 1,966 –  FRIDAY ,  MAY  06, 2016
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 27th May, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 13th  May, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 W. A. A. G. FonsekA,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
905
Note.— Ranjan Ramanayake Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March11, 2016.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'05'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2016
906
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are rele ased for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'05'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2016
907
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should perso nally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'05'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2016
908
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’S   DEP ARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages 
 
KALUTARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Muslim Marriages Registration Divisions and should be entitled to 
properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places 
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development 
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District 
Registries. 
07. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 06th June, 2016.
 E. M. Gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
18th April, 2016.
Schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Application is called Applications should be sent
Kalutara Beruwala Post of Registrar of Muslim  Marriages in The District Secretary/The Additional
   Darga Town Area of Kalutara and   Registrar General, District  
    Panadura Thotamuna Division   Secretariat, Kalutara. 
05–78
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’S   DEP ARTMENT
Amendment of closing date of applications for recruitment of Registrar of Marriage, Birth and Death of the 
Registrar General's Department
 
KANDY  DISTRICT
IT is kindly notified that the closing date of application for recruitment for the post of Marriage, Birth and Death Registrar for the 
Division appearing in the following Schedule which was published by  me in the Gazette No. 1956 of 26.02.2016 is extended as 30.05.2016. 
01. Please note that all other details in the said Gazette notification remain unchanged. 
 Senior Deputy Registrar General,
 For Registrar General.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'05'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2016
909
Schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Application is called Applications should be sent
Kandy Akurana Post of Additional Registrar of Marriage The District Secretary/The Additional
   (Kandyan/General) in Harispaththuwa  Registrar General, District  
    Division Alawathugoda Area   Secretariat, Kandy. 
05–80
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
SRI   LANKA   -  GERMAN   RAILWAY   
TECHNICAL  TRAINING   CENTRE  -  RATHMALANA
Admission of Apprentices - 2016
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan Citizens (Male/
Female) possessing minimum qualifications stipulated in 
paragraph 02 herein for admission of apprentices to the Sri Lanka 
- German Railway Technical Training Centre for 2016. 
02. Minimum qualifications :
 ( a) Should be between 16 - 25 as at 31.05.2016. 
 ( b) Educational Quailfications.– Passing 06 subjects 
including Sinhala/Tamil/English language, Mathematics 
and two other subjects with credit passes at the         
G. C. E. Ordinary Level in not more than one sitting. 
  
  Passing 03 subjects without General English with 
S passes in G. C. E. advanced level in Science/
Mathematics stream in one sitting with. 
03. Training Courses.– The apprentices selected for training 
will be given the opportunity to follow the professional course 
subject to the period relevant to the profession. Medium of 
examination will be only in Sinhala. 25 persons for each of the 
following course will be selected :
 (i) Diesel Engine Mechanic 2 1/2 years (NVQ 4 will be  
  u pgraded to NVQ 6)
 (ii) Welder 03 years (NVQ 4 will be  
  upgraded to NVQ 6)
 (iii) Electrician (power) 03 1/2 years (NVQ 4 will be 
    upgraded to NVQ 6) 
 (iv) Mechanic setter  03 1/2 years (NVQ 4 will be 
  (General)  upgraded to NVQ 6) 
  
04. Applications.– Applicants should indicate their particulars 
correctly in the application forms prepared in a typing  sheet (A4 
size). Incomplete applications will be rejected. 
05. Selection for the courses .– General  knowledge. The 
candidates who have scored the highest marks at the written test 
will be summoned for the pr actical/interview test under each 
course. 
Selection for each course will be made on the results of the 
highest aggregate marks obtained both at the written and practical 
test. 
06. Medium of examination.– Medium of examination will be 
Sinhala/Tamil and English. 
07. Examination fees .– Non refundable Rs. 500 will be 
charged for the examination. This amount can be paid by money 
order written in favour of the General Manager of Railways 
indicating the paying office as Maradana post office and the 
receipt of the money order should be attached to the application. 
The applications without money order will be rejected. Please 
note that inability to appear for the examination or under any 
circumstances the examination fees will not be refunded. 
08. Examination Centers .– In respect of applicants who 
have satisfied all the requirements, a written test will be held in 
Colombo centre only. 
09. Signing of Agreement.– All applicants selected for training 
in the institution should enter into an agreement with the national 
apprentices and Technical Training Institute and the Department 
of Railways that follow the training course successfully during 
the period relevant to the course. 
10. The Department is not bound to give employment to the 
apprentices after training. 
11. The application forms prepared according to the specimen 
form given below should be sent to the Director Sri Lanka - 
German Railway Technical Training Centre, Kaldemulla Road, 
Rathmalana by registered post, 'SLGRTT/2014' should be 
indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope. 
12. Closing date of applications. – Applicants will be 
entertained up to 27.05.2016. The applications received late will 
be rejected. 
 B. a. P. ariyarathna, 
 General Manager of Railways. 
Office of the General Manager of Railways, 
Sri Lanka Railways, 
Colombo 10, 
06th of April, 2016. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'05'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2016
910
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM 
recruitment of aPPrentices to sri Lanka - german raiLway 
technicaL training centre - 2016
For office use only   
01. Full name (with Surname) (In Sinhala and English) :–––––––.
02. Address (Sinhala) :––––––––.
     (English) :––––––––.
03. District :––––––––.
04. Date of Birth :––––––––.
05. Sex : Male/Female :––––––––.
06. Telephone Number :––––––––.
07. Educational Qualifications : G. C. E. (O/L) : 
 First sitting :
 Index No. :––––––––.
   Subjects Grade 
 1. ............................... ..........................
 2. ............................... ..........................
 3. ............................... ..........................
 4. ............................... ..........................
 5. ............................... ..........................
 6. ............................... ..........................
 7. ............................... ..........................
 8. ............................... ..........................
 9. ............................... ..........................
 10. ............................... ..........................
 Second sitting :
 Index No. :––––––––.
   Subjects Grade 
 1. ............................... ..........................
 2. ............................... ..........................
 3. ............................... ..........................
 4. ............................... ..........................
 5. ............................... ..........................
 6. ............................... ..........................
 7. ............................... ..........................
 8. ............................... ..........................
 9. ............................... ..........................
 10. ............................... ..........................
Educational Qualifications : G. C. E. (A/L) : 
 First sitting :
 Index No. :––––––––.
   Subjects Grade 
 1. ............................... ..........................
 2. ............................... ..........................
 3. .................. ............. ..........................
 Second  sitting :
 Index No. :––––––––.
   Subjects Grade 
 1. ............................... ..........................
 2. ............................... ..........................
 3. ............................... ..........................
08. Medium preferred by the candidate to appear for the exam  :               
––––––––. 
09. Indicate in order two courses you wish to follow in terms of 
the notification : 
 1. .................................
 2. .................................
10.  Money Order No. ............................. obtained after making 
a payment of Rs. 500 to the ....................... post office is 
attached. 
11. I certify that the fore giving particulars contained in this 
application are true and accurate. Further, the I am aware that 
if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or 
incorrect. I am liable to disqualification if any discrepancy 
is discovered before the selection and to dismisal if defected 
after the appoinment. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of Applicant. 
Date  :––––––––.
05–19
––––––––––––––––––
AUDITOR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment of 
Audit Examiners to Grade II of the Audit Examiners' 
Service – 2016
A competitive examination will be conducted by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations to select suitable candidates for the Posts 
of Audit Examiners Grade II of the Audit Examiners' Service in 
terms of the Provisions in Paragraph 6(II)(b) of the Minute of said 
service. Applications are invited from the candidates possessing 
the required qualifications as stated in this notification. 
Date of Examination .– The examination will be held by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations in Colombo and Jaffna 
in the Month of September 2016. The Auditor General reserves 
the right to postpone or cancel this examination. 
01. Number of Persons to be Appointed and the Effective 
Date.– The effective date of appointments will be determined by 
the Auditor General. The Auditor General reserves the right to 
refrain from filling any or all of the vacancies. 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'05'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2016
911
02. Service Conditions : 
 (i) The selected candidates will be appointed to Grade II of 
the Audit Examiners' Service on the general conditions 
governing the appointments of the Public Service 
published at the beginning of the Paragraph (IIb) of 
Part I of the Ordinary Gazette, conditions set out in 
the Minute of Audit Examiners' Service published 
in the Gazette Extraordinary  No. 380/61 dated 20th 
December 1985 of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka and subjected to amendments made or to 
be made hereafter to the said Minute. 
 (ii) This post is permanent and pensionable. You are 
required to pay 7% of your monthly earnings to the 
Widows' and Orphans' Pension Fund from the date of 
your appointment. 
 (iii) The successful candidates will be appointed to this 
service on prob ation for a period of three years from 
the date of appointment. 
 (iv) Confirmation at the end of their probationary period of 
successful candidates competing in this Examination 
will be inter-alia depend on : 
 ( a) Satisfactory work, attendance and conduct. 
 ( b) Passing of Efficiency Bar Examination before the 
end of probation period. 
 (v) His/her Service will be terminated if he/she fails to 
secure confirmation at the end of the probationary 
period. 
 (vi) In terms of Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014 
dated 21st January, proficiency of the other official 
language should be acquired within five (05) years 
from the date of appointment. 
 (vii) Selected officers may be called upon to serve in any 
part of the Island. 
 (viii) This appointment will be subjected to the Procedural 
Rules of the Public Service Commission, the 
Establishments Code of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka, Government Financial 
Regulations, Orders and Regulations that may be 
issued by the Government from time to time and the 
Circulars, instructions and Orders that may be issued 
by the Auditor General's Department from time to time. 
03. Salary Scale. – The consolidated salary scale relating to 
Grade II of the Audit Examiners' Service in terms of Salary Code 
MN5-2016 of the Public Administration Circular No. 03/2016 is 
Rs. 34,605 -10x660 -11x755 -15x930 - Rs. 63,460 (Efficiency 
Bar before Rs. 36,585). However, the salary will be given to you 
in accordance with the provisions in this circular as stated in 
Schedule II thereof. 
04. Health and Discipline .– The candidate must satisfy the 
Auditor General that he/she is duly qualified in respect of health 
and an excellent moral character. The candidate must be of sound 
constitution, possessed of good sight and physically qualified for 
service in any part of the Island. When a candidate who is already 
not in the Public Service/provincial Public Service is selected, he/
she should appear for a medical test. 
05. Qualifications.– All candidates should : 
 ( a) be a Citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 ( b) be not less than 22 years and not more than 32 years of 
age for the persons not in the Public Service/Provincial 
Public Service as at the end of the closing date of 
application and the applicants who are in the Public 
Service should not be more than 40 years of age,
 (c) have an excellent moral character and must be of 
sound constitution ; 
 ( d) have obtained one of the following qualifications : 
 (i) Should be graduate of a recognized University or 
have obtained equivalent qualification ; 
or
 (ii) Should have passed the Examination of Licentiate 
or Intermediate of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in Sri Lanka ;
or
 (iii) Should have passed the Higher National Diploma 
in Accountancy/Commerce of Technical College 
of Sri Lanka/Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced 
Technological Education. 
 (e) No member of clergy of any religion will be permitted 
to appear for this examination. 
Note.– The candidates who compete for this examination 
should be able to produce certificates of their educational 
and professional qualifications, immediately at the 
request of the Auditor General. Applications submitted 
on pending results will not be entertained. 
Note.– A candidate will be deemed to have qualified only 
if he/she has : 
 (i) successfully compeleted in every respect the 
examination or examinations required to pass as at 
07th June, 2016 ; and 
 (ii) submitted at the interview, an official certificate 
or any official document on behalf of the said 
certificate or the qualifications that can be accepted 
by the Auditor General. 
06. Examination Fees.– The examination fee is Rs. 600. This 
fee should be paid to any Post Office/Sub Post Office in the 
Island before the closing date of applications with instructions 
that it should be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the 
Commissioner General of Examinations and the receipt obtained 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'05'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2016
912
should be affixed to the application. The examination fees 
paid will not be refunded fully or partly in any circumstances. 
(Keeping a photocpy of the cash receipt with you will be helpful).  
Further, the stamps or money order will not be accepted for the 
examination fee.
07. Method of Application :
 ( a) The application should be prepared in accordance with 
the specimen form annexed to  this notification, using 
both sides of the papers in A4 size as from 01 to 04 
on first page, 05 to 06 on second page, 07 to 09 on 
third page and 10 to 12 on fourth page and should be 
filled by the candidate himself. Appilcations which are 
incomplete and not prepared in accordance with the 
specimen form will be rejected without any notice. 
It would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
completed application form. 
 ( b) The application should be filled in the language in 
which the candidate eligible to sit for the examination 
(Refer Paragraph 11). The title of the examination 
appearing in the specimen should be indicated in 
English Language as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil 
application forms. 
 ( c) Application for the Open Competitive Examination 
must be sent by registered post to reach the 
Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization 
and Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of 
Examinations Sri Lanka, Sri Lanka, P. O. Box No. 
1503, Colombo on or before 07th June 2016. 
  The top left hand corner of the envelope containing 
the application should bear clearly the words “ Open 
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Posts 
of Audit Examiners Grade II -2016 ”.  No application 
received after the closing date will be accepted. 
Candidates who are in the Public Service/Provincial 
Public Service should send their applications through 
their Heads of the Department/Institution. 
 ( d) Applications which are not completed in every respect 
will be rejected. No allegation that an application has 
been lost or delayed in the post will be considered. 
Further the issue of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that he/she has the 
requisite qualification to sit for the examination. Such 
admissions are subjected to subsequent inquiries. 
 ( e) Applications will not be acknowledged. A notification 
will be published in newspapers by the Department 
of Examinations Sri Lanka as soon as the Admission 
cards are issued to the candidates. If the admission 
card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such 
advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the 
Department of Examinations in the manner specified 
in the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the 
following in hand at the time of calling the Department 
of Examinations i. e . certified photocopies of the 
application form and the cash receipt kept at your 
possession, receipt of registration, indicating your full 
name, address, NIC No. and the name of Examination 
accurately and in case of applicants outside Colombo, 
letter of request furnishing a fax number to, which the 
admission card should be sent.
 ( f) Candidate's signature in the application form and in 
the admission card should have been attested by an 
authorized person. Applicants who are already in 
Public Service or Provincial Public Service should 
get their signatures attested by their Heads of 
Departments or by an officer authorized to do so on 
his behalf, other candidates should get their signatures 
attested by anyone of the following : i. e. a Justice of 
Peace, a Commissioner of Oaths, an Attorney at Law, 
Notary Public, a Principal of a Government school, a 
public officer drawing a annual conso lidated salary 
of Rs. 240,360 or over, a Chief Incumbent or Higher 
Priest of a Buddhist Temple, a member of the clergy 
of any other religion who is in charge of a place of 
workshop or holding a position of importance in such 
places of worship, a Commissioned Officer in three 
Armed Forces, an officer holding a Gazetted Post in 
the Police Service. 
08. Admission to the Examination : 
 ( a) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue 
an Admission Card to every person whose application 
has been received. A candidate must sit for the 
examination at the examination hall assigned to him 
and submit the admission card with the candidate's 
authenticated signature to the supervisor on the 
first day presenting himself for the examination. A 
candidate who fails to produce his admission card will 
not be permitted to sit for the examination ;
 ( b) A set of rules to be followed by all candidates is 
published in this Gazette ;
 ( c) The issue of an admission card to a candidate does 
not necessarily mean that he/she has the requisite 
qualification to sit for the examination ;
 ( d) All candidates are bound to abide by the rules laid 
down by the Commissioner General of Examinations. 
A candidate who violates any of those rules is liable 
to punishment at the discretion of the Commissioner 
General of Examinations. 
09. Identification of the Candidates .– A candidate will be 
required to prove his identity at the examination to the satisfaction 
of the supervisor for each subject he or she appears. For this 
purpose, only the following documents will be accepted :-

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'05'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2016
913
 ( a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department 
of Registration of Persons ;
 ( b) A valid passport issued by the Department of 
Immigration and Emigration.  
10. Furnishing False Information. – If a candidate is found 
to be ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at 
any stage prior to, during or after the examination. If any of the 
particulars furnished by the candidate is found to be false within 
his knowledge or if he/she has willfully suppressed a material 
fact, her/she will be liable to dismissal from the Public Service. 
11. Method of Examination :
 ( a) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and 
English Languages ;
 ( b) A candidate should sit for the examination in 
the language in which he passed the qualifying 
examination or in the official language. 
 ( c) A candidate who has passed subjects at the qualifying 
examination in two or more languages should sit for 
the examination in the languages in which he passed 
the majority of subjects at such examination or in the 
official language. 
 ( d) A candidate with a Special Degree who has passed the 
core-subject in one language and the subsidiary subject 
in another language should sit for the examination in 
which he passed the principal subject or in the official 
language. 
Note :
 (i) The term "Qualifying Examination" in (b) and (c) 
above refer to any of the examinations referred to 
in paragraph 05. 
 (ii) A candidate must sit for all the papers of 
examination in one and the same language. 
12. Method of Testing : 
 ( a) A written test on the following five subjects and a 
viva voce test : 
 Duration Total 
 (Hours) Marks
1.  Accounting 03 hours 150 marks 
2.  Cost Accounting 02 hours 100 marks
3. Auditing 03 hours 150 marks
4. Business Mathematics and  02 hours 100 marks
 Statistics 
5. Environment - 
  Part I - Economics 01 hour 50 marks
  Part 2 - General Commercial  01 hour 50 marks
         knoweldge
  Part 3 - Commercial Law 01 hour 50 marks 
The syllabus of the written test in shown in Appendix 'A'. 
 ( b) Candidates who obtain a minimum of 40 percent of the 
marks in each paper and an average of not less than 50 
percent of the aggregate marks only will be eligible to 
be called up for the interview and the interview will 
be held on a date intimated after the date of written 
test. The interview will be confined to scrutinizing 
the qualifications, certificates and service records of 
candidates and marks will not be given for the interview. 
The interview board is appointed by the Auditor General. 
13. Method of Selection for Appointment .– Those who have 
scored the highest marks totalling the marks for 05 papers in 
the written test will be selected. In the event of more than one 
candidate have scored similar marks, the final decision for 
selection will be made by the Auditor General.
14. Results sheet including the names of qualified candidates 
as per Paragraph 12(b) will be posted to the Auditor General and 
subsequently the results will be informed by post personally to all 
candidates or made available in www.result.exams.gov.lk of the 
official webpage of the department. 
15. The decision of the Auditor General will be final regarding 
issues on matters not covered by the above regulations. 
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the notice 
pubilshed in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, the notice 
published in Sinhala medium shall prevail. 
 H. m. gamini wijayasinghe, 
 Auditor General. 
Auditor General's Department, 
No. 306/72, 
Polduwa Road, 
Battaramulla, 
19th April, 2016. 
APPENDIX "A"
syLLaBus of the written test 
 (i) Accounting - One paper of three hours duration on –
 * Accounting Theory.– A general understanding of basic 
concepts and principles, methods of assets valuation, 
theory of double entry, classification of costs, 
calssification of information in balance sheets and 
manufacturing, trading and profit and loss accounts. 
 * Accounting Systems.–  Understanding the concept of 
control based on the need to control changes in resources 
used in an accounting entity : need for comparison with 
standards ; analysis of business transactions familiarity 
with procedures governing basis management 
functions such as purchasing, selling, receipt and 
payment of moneys, inventory control etc., familiarity 
with different designs of records, day books, ledgers, 
control accounts, etc.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'05'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2016
914
 * Accounting practice problems including the preparation 
of balance sheet, manufacturing, trading and profit 
and loss accounts, reconciliation statements, control 
accounts etc., accounting and statistical ratios. 
(150 marks)
 (ii) Cost Accounting - One paper of two hours duration on 
 * Principles of costing, types of costing, purchase and 
stores procedure, materials, pricing of materials, 
pricing of issue of materials, wages, overheads, fixed 
and variable expenses, direct and indirect expenses, 
budgetary control, standard costing, variations, 
marginal costing, contract costing, process costing, 
job costing, transport costing, output costing. 
(100 marks)
 (iii) Auditing - One paper of three hours duration on 
 * Auditing concepts and theory.-  Need for audit ; 
accountability as a base for audit ; scope of audit, 
classes of audit ; timing of audit, qualifications of 
auditors ; powers ; authority for audit, pre-audit; 
internal check, internal control; in depth audit, internal 
audit, the need for standards ; types of evidence for 
audit, techniques. 
 * Auditing systems and procedures.  - Familiarity with 
audit programmes covering the main balance sheet, 
manufacturing, trading and profit and loss account 
items, land, buidlings, fixed assets, inventories, money 
assets, sales, purchases, receipts, payments, etc. 
 * Auditing problems.- Simple problems to test powers 
of observations, ability to detect errors and unusual 
situations. 
 * Functions of the Auditor General.
(150 marks)
 (iv) Business Mathematics and Statistics .- One paper of two 
hours duration on Elements of Business Mathematics and 
Statistics.
(100 marks)
Mathematics -
 * Equations - Linear and quadratic equations including 
graphical solutions. 
 * Series - Arithmetic and Geometri 
  Simple and compound interest including discounting. 
 * Elementary probability theory including permutations 
and combinations. Use of mathematical table. 
Statistics –
 * Collection, presentation and interpretation of data. 
 * Analysis of frequency distributions ; averages and 
dispersion ; standard deviation ; frequency curves. 
 * probability, distribution and its application ;
 * Sampling and significance concept of sample 
distributions, standard error, methods of sampling, tests 
of significance. 
 * Time Series - Components of a time series, trends - 
seasonal, cyclical and irregular.
 * Graphic communication, statistical graphic charts. 
 (v) Environment - One paper of three hour duration on the 
following subjects. 
 * Elements of Economics, Law and General Commercial 
Knowledge.
(150 marks)
Economics : 
 * Nature and significance of the study of economics, the 
price system, demand and supply, cost and revenue, 
maximization of profits, factors of production, competition 
and monopoly. 
 * The characteristics of the economy of Sri Lanka ; national 
income ; gross national product, balance of payments ; 
economic problems such as inflation, recession, fixed and 
floating exchange rates, devaluation. 
 * Money and banking - Nature, forms and functions 
of money ; value of money ; general levels of prices ; 
functions of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, Commercial 
Banks, Credit and Savings Institutions. 
Law :
 * An outline of the history of different systems of law in 
Sri Lanka and in general their applicability ; organization 
and functions of courts, labour tribunals, industrial courts 
; functions of judges and other important legal officers 
engaged in the administration of justice in the Sri Lanka. 
 * Nature of contract ; natural and legal per son ; agency ; 
doctrine of ultra vires. 
General Commercial Knowledge : 
 * Office organization including systems and procedures, 
filing and indexing, office applicances, organization of 
meetings ; writing of minutes, reports. 
 * Organization sturcture ; organization chart, line staff 
relationship, centralization, decentral ization, business 
units including sole trader, partnership, joint stock 
companies, Co-operatives, public corporations. 
 * Principles and classes of insurance ; Sr i Lanka Export 
Credit Insurance Corporation. 
 * Crriage of goods by sea, land and air ; freight ; demurrage. 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'05'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2016
915
 * Negotiable instruments ; m eaning of negotiability ; 
cheques ; bills of exchange; endorsements; crosings; 
acceptance; dishonour. 
 * Role of co-operatives in Sri Lanka. 
 * Principles of investment; stock exhange in Sri Lanka. 
 * Sale of goods including contract of sale, the passing of 
wornership of the property in the goods, conditions and 
warranties, hire purchases, purchase on installment basis. 
 * International trade including procedure, documents, 
methods of export, import, methods and terms of payment, 
customs and excise duties. 
 * Development finance including the functions of the 
National Development Bank, Development Finance 
Corporation, World Bank, International Monetary Fund. 
(150 marks)
               Index No.           
(For office use only)
SPECIMEN  FORM  OF  APPLICATION 
oPen comPetitive examination for recruitment of audit 
examiners to grade ii of the audit examiners' service - 2016
(Application form to be prepared in two A4 size papers as No. 
01-04 in first page, No. 04-06 in second page, No. 07 to 09 in 
third page and remainder in fourth page)
Town and Town No. in which you intend to sit the examination : 
             Town Town No. 
COLOMBO  - 1
JAFFNA - 2
(Indicate the Town in English block capitals and Town No. in 
the cage)
Language Medium of Examination : 
Sinhala  - 2
Tamil   - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(Language medium will not be allowed to change subsequently)
01.  1.1 Full name (in English blocks capitals) :–––––––––––.
   (Example : HERATH  MUDIYANSELAGE  SAMAN   
     KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA )
  1.2 Name with initial indicating the initial after the last  
 name :–––––––––––.
   (Example : GUNAWARDHANA, H. M. S. K.)
  1.3 Full Name (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
02.  Address : 
 2.1 Permanent Address : (which Admission Card to be 
posted) (in English blocks capitals) :–––––––––––.
 2.2 Permanent Address : (in SInhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
 2.3 Official Address (In English blocks capitals) :–––––––––.
  (An officer in the Public Service/Provincial Public 
Service should write his/her official address)
03. 3.1 Sex :
  Female - 1 Male - 0
  (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 3.2 National Identity Card No. : 
 3.3 Civil Status :
  Married - 2 Single - 1
  (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 3.4 Date of birth :
  Year : Month : Date :
 3.5  Age as at 07.06.2016 : 
  Years : Months : Days :
04. Race :
 Sinhala -1,  Tamil - 2,  Indian Tamil - 3, 
 Muslim - 4,  Others - 5
 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 
05. (i) Qualifications you have obtained to sit for this 
examination :
 Qualifications Date of  Subjects Date of Institution 
 obtained obtaining  Issuing  from which 
  qualifications  results the 
     qualification
     obtained 
 (ii) Subjects passed at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination : 
  ( a) Year of Examination :–––––––––.
  ( b) Index Number :–––––––––.
  Subjects Pass obtained 
06.  Extra educational and professional qualifications :–––––––––.
07. Names and addresses of two referees nominated by the 
candidate to certify his/her character and capacity : 
  (i) –––––––––––.
  (ii) –––––––––––.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'05'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2016
916
08. Candidates who sit for this examination while serving in the 
Public/Provincial Public Service should fill the following :
  (i) The Service/Departmental Grade you belong to :––––.
  (ii) Date of confirmation in the Service/Departmental  
  Grade :
   Year :  Month : Date :
09. The cash receipt should be affixed on the application firmly :
  (i) Number of the Receipt :–––––––––––.
  (ii) Place of payment :–––––––––––.
  (iii) Date of payment :–––––––––––.
  (iv) Amount paid (Rupees) :–––––––––––.
   (Keeping a photocopy of the cash receipt with you  
  would be helpful)
10.  Certificate by Candidate : 
I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the 
information given here is true and that I have attached the 
receipt bearing No. .......................... dated ..................... being 
payment of examination fees. I also agree to be bound by the 
rules governing examinations and any decision that may be taken 
to cancel my candidature prior or during or after the examination, 
if it is found that, I am ineligible according to the regulations of 
this examination. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of Candidate. 
Date :–––––––––––.
11. Attestation : (Refer Paragraph 07(f) of the Gazette 
notification) :
I hereby certify  that Mr./Mrs./Miss ...................................
. who forward this application is known to me personally and 
placed his/her signature in my presence on ........................ 2016. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature and Seal of the Attester. 
Date :–––––––––––.
Full Name of the Attester :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
12. Certificate of the Head of the Institute : 
 (For candidates competing in the Open Competitive 
Examination and who are already in Public Service/
Provincial Public Service) :
I hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ................. 
is serving in this office from ....................... and his/her work, 
attendance and conduct is satisfactory and I personally checked 
all the information furnished in cages 01 to 08 above with the 
records available in t his office and found correct and he/she 
could be/not be released from the present post, if selected for this 
appointment and he/she signed in my presence on ........................ 
2016. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature and Seal of the Head of the 
  Institute or the Authorized Officer. 
Date :–––––––––––.
Full Name of the Attester :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
05–94
––––––––––––––––––
CEYLON - GERMAN  TECHNICAL  TRAINING 
INSTITUTE - MORATUWA 
(MINISTRY OF SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND 
VOCATIONAL TRAINING)
Admission for the Full Time Courses Under the 
National Apprenticeship Scheme - 2016
APPLICATIONS are invited from Male and Female candidates 
who hold following minimum Qualifications for the admission 
of year 2016. 
01.  (a)  Age.– Between 16 - 22 years as at 31.03.2016.
 ( b)  Education.– Passed in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. 
(O/L) Examination including Sinhala/Tamil language 
(Medium of Instruction) and Mathematics in one 
sitting. 
Applicants who have special skills .– Candidates who have 
placed among first three places in a Pr ovincial level competition 
or obtain a certificate merit or above by a National Competition 
of Sri Lanka Inventors Commission in Electrical/Electronic/
Mechanical field and candidates who have completed the above 
section (b) qualifications with not less than two attempts are also 
qualified to sit for the examination. 
Note.– Candidates following full time courses at National 
Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority (NAITA) 
and bonded for period of 03 years or more are not 
eligible to apply for these full time courses. 
02. Course Medium .– All courses are conducted in Sinhala 
medium. Only Automobile course will conduct in Tamil medium 
too. 
03. Entrance Examination .– Applicants who possess the 
requisite minimum qualifications will be allowed to sit for the 
admission test provided examination fees referred to in Column 4 
below have been paid. 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'05'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2016
917
 ( a)  Medium.– Sinhala/Tamil. 
 ( b)  Examination Centers .– A written examination for 
admission will be conducted at Centers in Colombo, 
Kandy, Galle, Badulla, Anuradhapura and Vavuniya as 
indicated in the application. 
  Kindly note that if an adequate No. of candidates are 
not available at particular centers then the management 
reserve the right to change the centers by accommodating 
such applications according to the preference of the 
candidate.
Examination Subjects.– The examination will consist of two 
question papers based on Mathematics, General knowledge, 
Intelligence test, Technical knowledge, English knowledge and 
Technical Drawing. 
04. Examination Fees.– Applicants should pay Rupees Five 
Hundred only (Rs. 500/-) as examination fees. Paying voucher of 
the Bank should be attached to the application. The application 
should be forwarded together with the paying voucher of the 
Bank. 
Payment.– The payment can be made to the any Bank of Ceylon 
Branch to the Accountant, Ceylon German Technical Training 
Institute which credit to Account Number 681490 maintained at 
Moratuwa Branch. Paying vouchers that are defaced or erased 
will not be accepted. Applications which do not contain a credit 
voucher to the value will be rejected. Examination fees will not 
be refunded to candidates those who are not appearing for the 
examination or on rejection of their applications for any other 
reason. 
05. Primary Selection .– Primary selection of candidates for 
admission will be merit based on the written examination and 
those who obtain the required highest marks will be called for 
interview for the final selection. Cutoff marks for less privileged 
provinces would be decided by the Management of CGTTI. 
(Less privileged provinces are decided according to Sri Lanka 
Examination Department). 
06. Final Selection. – Those who obtained highest marks 
from aptitude test and interview would be considered for final 
selection. 40% marks are allocated for aptitude test and 60% for 
the interview. Extra Curricular activities are specially considered. 
The selected candidates  will have to gothrough a medical 
examination and those who fail the medical test will be 
discontinued. 
07. Training Courses :
Automobile  - 04 years
Millwright/Fitter - 04 years
Power Electrical - 03 1/2 years
Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration - 03 1/2 years 
Tool Machinery - 03 1/2 years 
Mechatronic Technology (Industrial) - 03 1/2 years
Auto Electrical - 03 years
Diesel Mechanics - 03 years 
Welding - 03 years
Courses conducted at the Borella Branch : 
Motor Vehicle Body
 Repairer and Painter - 03 years
Auto Electrical - 03 years
Selected candidates will be allowed to follow the above 
mentioned courses of training depending on the aptitude they 
show in the trade selection test conducted after first year of basic 
training. 
08. Bond to be signed .– All selected candidates are required 
to enter in to a bond to under go full time training at CGTTI for 
periods ranging from 04, 03 1/2, 03 years in their allocated Trades 
and enter in to agreement with the National Apprentice and 
Industrial Training Authority (NAITA) as per their requirements. 
In addition they have to serve Sri Lanka Transport Board 
for two years after successful completion of their training if 
necessary. 
09. Applications.– The application should be prepared as per 
the specimen form given below (A4 size) and photocopies of the 
following certificates should also be attached with the application :
 ( a) Birth Certificate ;
 ( b) Educational Certificates ;
 (c) Applicants who apply under special skills should 
forward the certificate of provincial/National level 
competition issued by Sri Lanka Inventors Commission. 
The envelope in which application is enclosed should be 
marked, "Recruitment of Apprentice - 2016" on the top left hand 
corner. (Application forms can be down-loaded via the institute's 
web site (www.cgtti.lk).
10. Closing date of applications.– Applications should be sent 
to The Manager - Administration and Human Resources Ceylon 
German Technical Training Institute, No. 582, Galle Road, Mount 
Lavinia by registered post on or before 20th June, 2016. 
11. Admission Cards.– Admission cards for the examination 
will be sent to the all qualified candidates on around 10th August 
2016. If any candidate does not receive the admission card, 
contact over the telephone Number given below within 14 days 
from the date. 
12. Recruitment of trainees to the Borella Branch.– Based on 
the waiting list of the above examination, trainees will be recruited 
to the Borella branch after 03 months from the recruitment of 
trainees to the Institute at Moratuwa. 
 Manager, 
 Administration and Human Resources. 
Ceylon German Technical Training Institute, 
No. 582, Galle Road, 
Mount Lavinia (Angulana Junction), 
Telephone : 0112605625.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'05'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2016
918
CEYLON GERMAN TECHNICAL TRAINING INSTITUTE - MORATUWA
aPPLication for admission to fuLL-time courses - 2016
(under the nationaL aPPrenticeshiP – scheam)
For Office Q DQ Index Interview Training
use only   No. No. No.
* Use Block Capitals when filling the form in English.
* Use (P) to complete 03 (d) and 06 (a, b).
01.  (a) Full Name :
   (Sinhala)      
  ( b) Full Name :
   (English) 
  ( c) Names with initials : 
   (English)
02.  (a) Postal Address :
   (Sinhala)
  ( b) Postal Address :
   (English)
  ( c) District : (d) Divisional  (e) Province :
      Secretariat :
  ( f) E-mail address : (g) Phone Number : Mobile
     Residence   
 
03.  (a) Date of Birth :  (b) Age as at 31.03.2016 :   Years      Months Days
  ( c) NIC No. :  (d) Sex (*) :   Female           Male
4. Educational Qualifications  G. C. E. (O/L) :  Second sitting (only for special skills applicants) :
  Index No.  Year Index No.  Year
  Subjects Grade  Subjects Grade 
 
05. Specify the field and year of issue of the certificate (Provincial/National) issued by the Sri Lanka Inventors Commission, if the 
candidate is applying under the special skills category  : 
  Year : Field :
06. ( a) Medium in which the candidate wishes to sit the Admission test (*) :   Sinhala  Tamil

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'05'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2016
919
 ( b) Center at which the candidate wishes to sit the Admission test (*) :
  Colombo Kandy Galle Badulla  Anuradhapura  Vavuniya
07. ( a) Bank where the Examination fees were paid to    (b) Date :
I hereby certify that the above particulars furnished by me are true and accurate, if any particulars contained here are found 
to be false or incorrect, liable for disqualification/dismissal before or after selection. 
 
 Signature.       Date
For Office use only
 ( a) Attached a copy of the bank receipt Yes No
 ( b) Attached copies of Educational Certificates Yes No
 ( c) Attached a copy of the birth Certificate Yes No
 ( d) Attached certificate of special skills mentioned under (05) Yes No Not Relevant
 ( e) Age limit - 16 OK 22+
 ( f) Qualified to sit the admission test  Yes No
 ( g) Checked by
 
05–23

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'05'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2016
920
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 “GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA” 
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
 2.  All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Gov-
ernment Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of Advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  To avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme 
Court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 One inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 One column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 Two columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  The “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka ” is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to alteration 
in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should 
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14.  REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha, Polhengoda, 
Colombo 05.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'05'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2016
921
IMPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka will be received by the Government Printer. 
The schedule
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2016
 May 06.05.2016 Friday — 22.04.2016 Friday 12 noon
  13.05.2016 Friday –– 29.04.2016 Friday 12 noon
  20.05.2016 Friday –– 06.05.2016 Friday 12 noon
  27.05.2016 Friday –– 13.05.2016 Friday 12 noon
 June 03.06.2016 Friday — 20.05.2016 Friday 12 noon
  10.06.2016 Friday –– 27.05.2016 Friday 12 noon
  17.06.2016 Friday –– 03.06.2016 Friday 12 noon
  24.06.2016 Friday –– 10.06.2016 Friday 12 noon
 July 01.07.2016 Friday — 17.06.2016 Friday 12 noon
  08.07.2016 Friday –– 24.06.2016 Friday 12 noon
  15.07.2016 Friday –– 01.07.2016 Friday 12 noon
  22.07.2016 Friday –– 08.07.2016 Friday 12 noon
  29.07.2016 Friday –– 15.07.2016 Friday 12 noon
 W. A. A. G. FonsekA,
 Government Printer. (Acting)
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,  
01st January, 2016.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.