

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
FINANCE
ACT, No. 11 OF 2006
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 31st March, 2006]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs. Postage : Rs.
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 31, 2006

<!-- page 2 -->

1Finance Act, No. 11 of 2006
Short title.
[Certified on 31st  March, 2006]
L.D. —O.  3/2006.
A N   ACT  TO  PROVIDE   FOR  THE   IMPOSITION  OF  A  M OTOR  VEHICLE
C ONCESSIONARY  LEVY   AND   A  TELEDRAMA , FILM  AND  COMMERCIAL
LEVY  ;  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  AMENDMENT  OF  CERTAIN  LEVIES  AND
CHARGES  IMPOSED  BY  THE   FINANCE  ACT , NO . 11 OF  2002, THE
FINANCE  ACT , NO . 25 OF  2003 AND  THE  FINANCE  ACT , NO . 11 OF
2004; AND  TO   PROVIDE  FOR  MATTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR
INCIDENTAL  THERETO .
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Finance Act, No.  11   of
2006.
PART I
M OTOR  VEHICLE  CONCESSIONARY  LEVY
2. (1) From and after the coming into operation of this
Act, there shall be charged and levied a levy to be called and
known as the Motor V ehicle Concessionary Levy (hereinafter
referred to as “the levy”) -
(a) from every primary holder of a Sri Lanka Nation
Building Bond (SLNBB) who imports a motor
vehicle who shall be required to pay at the time of
such importation a levy at such rate as may be
determined by the Minister by Order on the cost,
insurance and freight value of such vehicle, in lieu
of any tax which he is liable to pay in terms of the
Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235), the Excise
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989 and the
Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002, on a
recommendation being made to that effect by the
Granting of
concessionary
levies to certain
categories of
persons.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Finance Act, No. 11 of 2006
Superintendent of Public Debt of the Central Bank
of Sri Lanka, subject however to the following
conditions:-
(i) the aggregate investment in Sri Lanka Nation
Building Bonds (SLNBB) shall be of such
amount, in United States Dollars  or its
equivalent in any other foreign currency, as
may be determined by the Minister in the
aforesaid Order, as is acceptable for the
purchase of the aforesaid Bonds ;
(ii) the cost, insurance and freight value of the
motor vehicle should not exceed such
percentage as may be determined by the
Minister in the aforesaid Order, of the value of
the Sri Lanka Nation Building Bonds
(SLNBB) ;
(b) from every individual who, commencing from the
year of assessment commencing on April 1, 2000
has continued to pay in respect of each year of
assessment within the period of five years
immediately succeeding that year of assessment,
income tax in terms of the  Inland  Revenue  Act,
No.  10 of 2006 of an amount not less than rupees
two hundred and fifty thousand (250,000/-), and
certified as such by the Commissioner – General of
Inland Revenue, imports a motor vehicle, shall be
required to pay at the time of such importation a
levy in lieu of any tax or fiscal levy which such
individual is liable to pay in terms of the Customs
Ordinance (Chapter 235), the Excise (Special
Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989 and the Value Added
Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002, calculated at such rate as
may be determined by    the Minister, on the
aggregate of such taxes and levies.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Finance Act, No. 11 of 2006
Director –
General of
Customs to
collect levy.
(2) Every Order made by the Minister under
paragraphs (a) and (b) above shall come into force from the
date on which the Minister has affixed his signature on such
Order.
3. Upon the required certification being made in respect
of the persons referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of section
2 by the Superintendent of Public Debt of the Central Bank
of Sri Lanka and the Commissioner – General of Inland
Revenue as the case may be, it shall be the duty of the Director
– General of Customs to collect the levy payable by such
persons at the time of importation and remit the same to the
Consolidated Fund.
4. The Secretary to the Treasury may from time to time
issue such general or special directions as may be necessary
for the implementation of the levy in terms of this Part of the
Act.
5. Where a levy of such amount as is specified by Order
under section 2 has been collected by the Director-General
of Customs in terms of this Part of this Act during the period
commencing on March 1, 2006, and ending on the date of
commencement of this Act, from any person referred to in
paragraphs (a) or (b) of section 2, who so imports a motor
vehicle, such collection shall be deemed for all purposes to
have been and to be, validly made, and the Director General
of Customs is hereby indemnified against  all action civil or
criminal, in respect of such collection.
PART II
I
MPOSITION  OF  A  LEVY  ON  TELE -DRAMAS  FILMS  AND  TELEVISION
C OMMERCIALS
6. (1) With a view to improving and regulating the
quality and standard of tele dramas, films and commercials
produced in Sri Lanka and thereby ensuring the propagation
of Sri Lankan values through such tele dramas, films and
Directions to
be issued.
Indemnity
Levy on tele
dramas, films
and commercials
imported into Sri
Lanka to be
telecast.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Finance Act, No. 11 of 2006
commercials, there shall be charged and levied, from every
institution licensed under the Sri Lanka Rupavahini
Corporation Act, No. 6 of 1982, or such other licensing
authority as may be identified from time to time, a Levy to be
called the Teledrama, Film  and Commercials Levy (hereafter
in this Part referred to as “the Levy”), on every tele drama,
film or commercial, made and  or filmed outside Sri Lanka
and bought into or imported into Sri Lanka for the purpose of
being telecast, at such rate in relation to the duration of such
tele drama, film or commercial, as shall be specified by the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance in consultation
with the Minister to whom the subject of issuing of licences
to television stations is assigned :
Provided however the above levy shall not be chargeable
in respect of –
(a) any documentary which is telecast in Sri Lanka,
irrespective of whether such documentary was made
outside Sri Lanka;
(b) any film or tele-drama which, –
(i) seeks to impart educational values; or
(ii) is produced solely for the purposes of
providing entertainment for children.
(c) any other category of tele dramas, films or
commercials which may be prescribed by regulations.
(2) The manner and mode of payment, the time of payment
and the procedure for the collection of the same and such
other terms and condition which may be necessary in the
implementation of the provisions of this  Act shall be
prescribed by regulations made in that behalf.
(3) Every Order made under subsection (1) above shall
come into force from the date on which the Minister has
affixed his signature on such Order.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Finance Act, No. 11 of 2006
7. (1) Any person who defaults in the payment of the
levy in the manner and within the period prescribed by
regulations, shall be deemed to be a defaulter.
(2) Every defaulter  shall be liable to pay to the Secretary
to the Ministry of the Minister to whom the issuing of  licenses
to television stations is assigned, in addition to the amount
of the levy in default a surcharge calculated in the following
manner:-
(a) ten percentum of the amount of such levy as is in
default for the subsequent period of one month or
part thereof, calculated from the date on which the
levy was payable; and
(b) two per centum of  the amount of such levy as is in
default for each subsequent period of one month or
part thereof, calculated from the date on which  the
payment specified in paragraph (a) was due.
(3) The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister to whom
the issuing of licenses to television stations is assigned, shall
take action to recover the levy or such part of the levy which
is in default for a period of more than three months and the
amount of the surcharge accrued thereon, in the manner as is
specified hereafter.
(4) The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister to whom
the issuing of licenses to television stations is assigned, shall
cause to be issued on the defaulter, three weeks prior to the
taking of any steps for the recovery of the levy in default
along with the amount of the surcharge accrued thereon, a
Notice informing the defaulter of the intention  to institute
proceedings for the recovery of the amount of the levy in
default and the amount of the surcharge accrued thereon in
terms of the provisions of this section.
How levy in
default is to be
paid.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Finance Act, No. 11 of 2006
(5) Where the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister to
whom the issuing of licenses to television stations is assigned,
issues Notice on the defaulter in terms of subsection (4) but
the amount of the levy in default and the amount of the
surcharge accrued thereon remains unpaid even though the
period of three weeks specified in such Notice has elapsed,
the Secretary shall issue to the Magistrate having jurisdiction
over the division in which the defaulter resides or is carrying
on business, a Certificate containing the name and address of
the defaulter and the total sum in default along with a
statement to the effect that the person so named has defaulted
in making the payment as required by this section. Where the
defaulter is a body corporate, the Certificate shall contain
the name of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and of
every Director or principal officer of such body corporate.
(6) The Magistrate shall on receipt of the Certificate issued
under subsection (5), issue summons on the defaulter
requiring him to appear before him on a date to be specified
and show cause as to why proceedings should not be taken
against him for recovery of the amount of the Levy or such
part of the Levy which is in default and the surcharge accrued
thereon.  Where the cause shown appears to the Magistrate to
be insufficient so as to explain the reason for the non-payment,
the Magistrate shall after recording the same, make Order for
the recovery of the amount of the Levy in default and the
amount of the surcharge accrued thereon, from the defaulter
as if they were fines imposed by the Magistrate.  The money
so recovered shall be remitted to the Secretary to the   Ministry
of the Minister to  whom the issuing of  licenses to television
stations is assigned, who shall remit the same to the
Consolidated Fund.
8. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
all matters which are required by this Act to be prescribed or
in respect of which regulations are required or authorized to
be made under this Act.
(2) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of publication, or on such later date as may be
specified therein.
Regulations.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Finance Act, No. 11 of 2006
(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall, as
soon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be
placed before Parliament for approval. Every regulation,
which is not so approved, shall be deemed to be rescinded as
from the date of disapproval, but without prejudice to
anything previously done thereunder.
(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
9. For the purposes of this Part –
“film” means any audio visual presentation of a moving
image produced on any form or format whatsoever,
and which is intended primarily to be exhibited by
proprietors on a screen in a cinema ;
“tele drama” means a drama telecast over the television.
PART III
A
MENDMENT  OF  FINANCE  ACT , NO . 5 OF  2005
10. The Finance Act No. 5 of 2005 (In this Part referred
to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby amended in section
2 of Part 1 of that Act, (Imposition of Social Responsibility
Levy) as follows :—
(1) by the substitution for the words “be imposed with
effect from the year commencing on January 1, 2005
and for every year thereafter, at the rate of 0.25
percentum on all taxes and levies chargeable in terms
of the provisions of ” of the words,
“be imposed –
(a) for the period commencing on January 1, 2005
and ending on December 31, 2005, at the rate
of 0.25 percentum;
Interpretation for
this Part.
Amendment of
section 2 of Part
I of the Finance
Act No.5 of
2005.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Finance Act, No. 11 of 2006
(b) for the period commencing January 1, 2006
at the rate of 1 percentum,
on all taxes and levies chargeable in terms of the
provisions of ”.
(2) by the addition immediately after the proviso to
that section of the following :—
“Provided further that the Social Responsibility
Levy chargeable under the provisions of the Inland
Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000 in terms of the
provisions of this Part of this Act, on income tax
shall—
(a) in respect of the period commencing on
January 1, 2006 and ending on March 31,
2006 be calculated at the rate of 0.25
percentum ; and
(b) in respect of the period commencing on April
1, 2006 be calculated at the rate of 1
percentum.
11. The provisions of this Part of this Act shall be deemed
to have come into effect on January 1, 2006.
12. Where any amount has been collected by the relevant
authorities administering the enactments specified in the First
Schedule to the principle enactment, as Social Responsibility
Levy in terms of this Part of the Act during the period
commencing on January 1, 2006 and ending on the date of
commencement of this Act, the  amount so collected as Social
Responsibility Levy shall be  deemed to have been and to
be, validly made, and the respective relevant authorities
collecting the same, are hereby indemnified against all actions
civil or criminal in respect of the collection of the aforesaid
levy.
Retrospective
effect.
Indemnity.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Finance Act, No. 11 of 2006
PART IV
A MENDMENT  OF  FINANCE  ACT , NO . 25 OF  2003
13. Part II (Tourism Development Levy) of the Finance
Act, No. 25 of 2003 as amended by Act, No. 11 of 2004 is
hereby further amended in section 11 thereof, by the
substitution for the proviso to such section of the
following :—
“Provided however such levy shall not be charged
on the commission carried on the sale of airline tickets
from Travel Agents including General Sales Agents
licensed under the Tourism Development Act, No. 14 of
1968.”.
PART V
A MENDMENT  OF  FINANCE  ACT , NO . 11 OF  2002
14. Part I (Port and Airport Development Levy) of the
Finance Act No.11 of 2002 as last amended by Act, No. 6 of
2005, is hereby further amended in section 2 thereof, as
follows :—
(1) by the substitution for the first proviso to that
section, of the following :—
 “Provided that, in respect of the cost, insurance
and freight value of any article referred to above,
there shall be charged and levied—
(a) in respect of the period commencing on
November 19, 2004 and ending on December
31, 2005, a levy at the rate of 1.5 percentum;
and
(b) in respect of the period commencing on
January 1, 2006 a levy at the rate of 2.5
percentum ; and
Amendment of
section 2 of Part
1 of the Finance
Act No.11 of
2002.
Amendment of
section 11 of the
Finance Act, No.
25 of 2003.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Finance Act, No. 11 of 2006
(2) by the insertion immediately after the second
proviso to that section of the following :—
“Provided further, that with effect from January 1,
2006 no levy shall be charged in respect of any
article imported into Sri Lanka for the purpose of
processing and re-export or to be used for the
manufacture of goods for export.”.
15. The provisions of this Part shall be deemed to have
come into effect on January 1, 2006.
16. Where an amount equal to 2.5 per centum  on the
cost, insurance and freight value of an article has been
collected by the Director-General of Customs as Port and
Airport Levy in terms of this Part of this Act during the period
commencing on January 1, 2006 and ending on the date of
commencement of this Act, from any person importing, an
article as is referred to in Part I of the Finance Act No.11 of
2002, such collection shall be deemed for all purposes to
have been and to be, validly made, and the Director General
of Customs is hereby indemnified against  all action civil or
criminal, in respect of such collection.
17. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Retrospective
effect.
Indemnity
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 12 -->

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT   PUBLICATIONS  B UREAU , NO . 32,
TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,  LOTUS   ROAD ,  COLOMBO  01  before  15th  December  each  year  in  respect
of the year following.