

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
307
307
wxl 1"592 - 2009 ud¾;= 06 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'03'06
No. 1,592 – FRIDAY , MARCH 06, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 310
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 311
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 13th March, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 27th
February, 2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
308
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
309
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of
Examination,.Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
310
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
RATNAPURA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 60 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 06th April, 2009.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/3A, Dencil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
11th February 2009.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretariat Division applications are called Applications should be sent
Ratnapura Godakawela Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths in District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Niyangama Division and Marriages (Kandyan General, District Secretariat,
and  General) in Atakalan Korale Ratnapura.
03-30
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars  - Marriages,Births and Deaths
KALUTARA DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Division set out in the schedule he reto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Division and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
311
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 60 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 06th April, 2009.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/3A, Dencil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
03rd March, 2009.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretary's Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kalutara Beruwala Post of Medical Registrar of District Secretary/Addi. Registrar
Beruwala Town Division in Kalutara District General, District Secretariat, Kalutara
03-76
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS  REGULATORY  COMMISSION  OF  SRI  LANKA  (TRCSL)
Examination for the Issue of Amateur Radio Operator’s License by the TRCSL
1. CATEGORIES of Amateur Radio Operator’s License :
(a) Amateur Radio Operator’s Advance Class License
(b) Amateur Radio Operator’s General Class License
(c) Amateur Radio Operator’s Novice Class License.
2. Minimum Entry Requirements. – Every candidate entering for the examination must be fourteen (14) years of age or over on
the closing date of applications.
3. Scheme of Examination :
(a) Advance Class :- The examination consists of two parts :
Part - 1:- Two (2) compulsory written papers to be undertaken at one sitting.
Paper I - Advance Electrical Technology and Radio Communications (3 hours).
Paper II - Licensing Conditions, Operating Practices and Procedures (2 hours).
Part 2 :- Practical Morse Code Test(05 words per minute)
(b) General Class :- The examination consists of two parts. Two (2) compulsory written papers to be undertaken at one
sitting.
Paper I - Fundamental of Electricity and Radio Communications (2 hours).
Paper II - Licensing Conditions, Operating Practices and Procedures (1hour).

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
312
(c) Novice Class :- The examination consists of two parts. Two (2) compulsory written papers to be undertaken at one sitting.
Paper 1 - Basic Electricity, Radio and Electronic Theory (2 hours) ;
Paper II - Licensing Conditions, Operating Practices and Procedures (1 hour).
4. Conditions of Examinations.– The following conditions shall apply to all categories of Amateur Radio License Examinations :
(i) To pass the examination, the candidates should pass all papers of the examination.
(ii) Candidates must pass the two (2) written papers of the examination at the same sitting.
(iii) Only those candidates who pass Part I of the examination will be allowed to appear for Part 2 (Morse test) in case of
Advance class.
5. Medium of Examination.– The examination will be conducted in English Medium only.
6. Examination Fees.– Applicants who conform to the requirements of the examination are required to remit the examination
fees mentioned in this notification to the "Telecommunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka". If further information in t his
regared is required, the applicants are requested to write to the TRCSL.
The examination fee is payable either by a money order or a pay order/draft from any Bank drawn in the name of the
"Telecommunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka". The entry form must be sent by recorded delivery on registered post or
delivered by hand. Official receipts must be retained as TRCSL will not consider any claim that form has been overlooked or los t unless
proof of posting of delivery is produced.
Fees are not refundable  or cannot be transferred from one examination to another at a later date. Any candidate who withdraws
his application or cannot appear for the examination due to any reason whatsoever will be required to pay approximate examinati on fee
for any subsequent entry.
Category of Fee for Part 1 Fee for Part 2
Examination
Advance Class 276.00 138.00
General Class 138.00 -
Novice Class 138.00 -
7. Closing date of Application.– The examination will be held twice each year in April and October. The date of examination will
be informed by the Commissioner of Examination. Applications must be made on the appropriate entry form obtained from the under
mentioned office, completed, and submitted to the address given below on or before the closing date mentioned below.
Director General,
TRCSL,
276, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Manning Town,
Colombo 08.
Category of License Last Date of Entry
Advance Class 18.04.2009
General Class 18.04.2009
Novice Class 18.04.2009
8. Attestation.– Candidate's signature must be attested by one of the following :
A Justice of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, an Attorney-at-Law and Notary Public, Commissioned Officer of the Army, Navy
or Air Force, Gazetted Officer of the Police, a person holding a permanent post in the State Service drawing a consolidated sal ary of not
less than Rs. 493,920 per annum. All other applications will be rejected.
9. Identification of Candidates .– A candidate will be required to prove his/her identity in the examination and for this purpose
any of the following documents will be accepted :
(a) A valid Identity Card issued by the Postmaster - General ;
(b) A valid Passport ;
(c) An Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
313
All candidates are required to act in conformity with the Provisions of the Examination Act, No.25 of 1968.
Any matters which has not been provided for under these Rules and Regulations will be settled at the discretion of the Director-
general of Telecommunications.
Director General.
TRCSL,
No. 276, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Manning Town,
Colombo 08,
18th February 2009.
03-89
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS  II  GRADE  II  OF  THE  SRI  LANKA
SCIENTIFIC  SERVICE  2007  (2009) -  DEPARTMENT  OF  HEALTH  SERVICES
APPLICATIONS are invited for the vacancies in Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Scientific Service existing in the Department of Health
Services as indicated against it. The applications should be in the form of the specimen appended to the notification and shoul d be
prepared on a paper of size 8 1/2 x 12 inches (A4) in such a way that Nos. 1-6 appear in the first page. Completed applications  should
be sent by registered post to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations, Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla, on
or before 03rd April 2009. The top left corner of the envelope containing the application should bear clearly the title, "Exami nation for
Recruitment to Posts in Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Scientific Service 2007 (2009) - Department of Health".
Separate applications need not to be sent for each post applied for and the post applied should be indicated in the application
in the order given in this Notification. For example, a candidate who wishes to apply for the vacancies of the Posts of Biochem ist,
Entomologist etc. in the Department of Health, should indicate the relevant Code Numbers as 1013, 1015 in the column "Code Number"
in Para 6 of the application.
Department of Health Services
Vacant Posts Code
Number
1. Pharmaceutical Analyst (Chemical) 1011
2. Pharmaceutical Analyst (Bio)) 1012
3. Biochemist 1013
4. Physiologist 1014
5. Entomologist 1015
6. Research Officer (Natural Products Chemistry) 1016
7. Research Officer (Entomology) 1017
8. Research Officer (V accinations & Productions) 1018
9. Research Officer - Microbiology (Bacteriology & Virology) 1019
10. Research Officer - (Biochemistry) 1020
2. Terms of Engagement and Conditions of Service :
(i) The post is permanent and pensionable. The appointment will be subject to a probation period of three years.
(ii) The selected candidate should be prepared to serve in any part of the Island and will be subject to serve in the Provincial
Public Service as well.
(iii) A selected candidate will be appointed to Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Scientific Service on the general conditions
governing appointments in the Public Service. The terms and conditions set out in the Minute of the Sri Lanka Scientific
Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary  of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, No. 509/7 of 07th
June, 1988 and subject to any amendments made or to be made hereafter to the Minute will also be applicable for such
appointment.
(iv) Appointment of any candidate, who fails to assume duties of the post appointed on the prescribed date and/or who
rejects or averts to assume duties in the post or the area appointed, is liable to be cancelled.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
314
3. Structure and the Monthly Salary Scale :
Class I - Rs. 36,755- 17 x 1,050- Rs. 53,555
Class II - Rs. 30,175 - 8 x 790 - Rs. 35,705
Class III - Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - Rs. 29,385
(Should pass the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination within 02 years from the date of appointment and the 2nd Efficiency Bar
Examination within 07 years from the date of appointment, in terms of the provisions of Public Administration Circular 20/2001) .
Note :
(i) First Efficiency Bar :
Should pass the first Efficiency Bar Examination which includes the following subjects :
(a) Financial Systems
(b) Administration
(c) Departmental Regulations.
(ii) Second Efficiency Bar :
Should obtain a Postgraduate Degree such as M. Sc./M. Phil. or Ph. D. as laid down in the prescribed Scheme of
Recruitment.
4.  Educational and other Qualifications Relevant to the Posts :
All applicants should furnish satisfactory evidence to prove the following :
4.1 Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
4.2 Should be of an excellent moral character and sound physical health.
4.3 Should be over 22 years and less than 35 years of age before the closing date of applications. (Maximum age limit will
apply to internal candidates who are eligible to apply for relevant posts as mentioned in this notification).
4.4 Should possess relevant educational and other qualifications indicated below as at the closing date of applications :
Post Educational and Other Qualifications
01. Pharmaceutical Analyst (Chemical) ( a) B. Sc. Special Degree in Chemistry ; or
(b) B. Sc. Degree with Chemistry as a subject along with a Post-graduate degree on
Chemistry or a relevant subjects from a recognized university ;  or
(c) B. Sc Degree in Pharmacy ; or
(d) A member of the Royal Institute of Chemistry or Institute of Chemistry (Sri Lanka).
Note.– Pharmacists and Medical Laboratory Technologists who have obtained General
Science Degrees from a recognized university, with Chemistry as a subject, possessing,
at least 10 years of service with 05 years of satisfactory service thereof immediately
preceding the closing date of applications in the Department of Health are also eligible
to apply. (Satisfactory period of service shall mean the period of service wherein all
the salary increments falling within the same period have been earned and no
disciplinary punishment, except for warning, has been imposed).
02. Pharmaceutical Analyst (Bio) ( a) B.Sc. (Special Degree) in Chemistry or Zoology with Zoology or Chemistry as a
subsidiary subject ;  or
(b) B. Sc. Degree in Pharmacology or Pharmacy ; or
(c) B. Sc. Degree with a Post-graduate Degree on Pharmacology ; or
(d) 1st or 2nd Class B.Sc. General Degree with Zoology and Chemistry as subjects.
Note.– Pharmacists and Medical Laboratory Technologists who have obtained General
Science Degrees from a recognized university, with Chemistry and Zoology as subjects,
possessing at least 10 years of service with 05 years of satisfactory service thereof
immediately preceding the closing date of applications in the Department of Health
are also eligible to apply. (Satisfactory period of service shall mean the period of
service wherein all the salary increments falling within the same period have been
earned and no disciplinary punishment, except for warning, has been imposed).

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
315
03. Biochemist ( a)  Should possess one of the following qualifications.
Should possess either B.Sc. (Honors) Degree in Chemistry with a 1st or 2nd Class
from a recognized University or the membership of Royal College of Chemistry in
London or Sri Lanka ; or
(c) B. Sc. Degree with Chemistry as a subject and one of the Postgraduate Degrees such
as Ph. Sc. in Chemistry, from a recognized University.
Note.– Medical Laboratory Technologists who have obtained a General Science Degree
from a recognized university, with Chemistry as a subject, possessing 10 years of
satisfactory service with 05 years of satisfactory service thereof immediately preceding
the closing date of applications in the Department of Health are also eligible to apply.
(Satisfactory period of service shall mean the period of service wherein all the salary
increments falling within the same period have been earned and no disciplinary
punishment, except for warnings, has been imposed)
04. Physiologist ( a) B. Sc. Honors Degree (Special) in Physics from a recognized University ;  or
(b) B. Sc. Special Degree in Physics or B. Sc. Degree with Physics as a subject and 5 years
experience as Radiographer in a government or government affiliated institution
05. Entomologist ( a) B.Sc. (Honors) Degree in Zoology with Entomology as a subject from a recognized
University ; or
(b) PhD or M. Sc./M. Phil. Degree in Entomology from a recognized University.
06. Research Officer  (Natural Products ( a) B. Sc. (Honors) Degree in Chemistry with a 1st or 2nd Class from a recognized
Chemistry)  University ; or
(b) B. Sc. Degree with Chemistry as a subject and M. Sc./M. Phil. or PhD Degree
(through research on Natural Products Chemistry)
07. Research Officer (Entomology) ( a) B. Sc. Special Degree (Honors) in Zoology with a 1st or 2nd Class and Entomology as
a special Subject ; or
B. Sc. General Degree with a 1st or 2nd Class (with Zoology) and M. Sc. or PhD.
Degree
08. Research Officer ( a) B. Sc. (Honors.) Special Degree in Chemistry ; or
(Vaccinations & Productions)
(b) M. Sc. Degree in Zoology with Chemistry as a subject ; or
(c) B. Sc. General Degree with 1st of 2nd Class with Chemistry as a subject and Post -
graduate degree in Microbiology or Bio-Chemistry.
09. Research Officer  Micro Biology ( a) B.Sc. (Honors) Special Degree in Botany with 1st or 2nd Class with Microbiology as
(Virology and Bacteriology)  a subject from a recognized university ; or
(b) B.Sc. General Degre with 1st or 2nd Class with Botany as subject from a recognized
university and M. Sc. Degree or a Ph. D. in Microbiology ; or
(c) B. Sc. Degree with 1st  or 2nd Class from a recognized university and Post-graduate
qualifications in Microbiology.
10. Research Officer (Biochemistry) ( a) B. Sc. Special (Honors) Degree in Chemistry with 1st or 2nd Class ; or
(b) B. Sc. Special (Honors) Degree with M.Sc. or Ph.D on Clinical Chemistry ; or
(c) B. Sc. General Degree (with Chemistry) and M. F. B. Degree on Clinical Biochemistry.
Post Educational & Other Qualifications

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
316
Note :
(1) A candidate is regarded to have possessed the required basic qualifications for appointment to the Sri Lanka Scientific
Service, only if official certificates in respect of the qualifications or an official document acceptable to the Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs in lieu of such certificates have been produced at the interview.
Accordingly, candidates should have completed requisite qualifications for the post, on or before the closing date.
05. Candidates will be required to submit the following documents whenever requested.
(a) Certificate of Birth. (Note : Baptismal Certificate or the Certificate of Birth issued for the purpose of assisted school will
not be a accepted.)
(b) Degree certificate and the highest educational certificates obtained.
(c) Two character certificates (One of them should be from the Director of the Academic Institute/Lecturer or the Professor
of the University)
(d) Certificates in relations to the professional experience or technical qualifications.
(e) Certificates on highest examination passed in Sinhala/Tamil or English.
06. (i) Application should be prepared in such a way that Nos. 1 to 6 appear on the 1st page, Nos.  7 to 11 on the 2nd page and
the remaining numbers on the 3rd page and should be filled clearly by the candidate's own handwriting. Applications that
do not comply with the specimen form of application and that have not been perfected properly will be rejected without
notice. It is advisable to keep not been perfected properly will be rejected without notice. It is advisable to keep a
photocopy of the application with the candidate. It is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the
application complies with the specimen as otherwise it may be rejected. It is required to indicate the name of the
examination in English also in the applications prepared both in Sinhala and Tamil mediums.
(ii) A notification will be published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are issues to the candidates. Steps should
be taken to notify the Department of Examinations if the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such
advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the Department of Examinations :
i.e. certified photocopies of the application form and the receipt kept at your possession, receipt of registration and in
case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the admission card should be
sent.
07. Examination Fee : The fee for the examination is Rs. 300.00. Before the closing date of applications, fees should be paid to
any Divisional Secretary's Office to be credited to Revenue Head 6, Sub Head 1, Item 4 Sub Item 4. Receipt obtained from the Divisional
Secretariat should be pasted in the relevant cage of the application. The fee will not be refunded. It would be useful to keep a photocopy
of the receipt with the candidate. The examination will be held in Colombo.
08. Attention is drawn to the general conditions applicable for the appointments to the posts in Public Service published at th e
beginning of Part I Section (11A) of the Gazette Notification.
09. Officers in the Public Service should forward their applications through the respective Head of Department.
10. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue admission cards to all persons whose applications have been
received. A candidate sitting himself for the Examination must get his/her signature on the admission card attested in advance as required
and produce it to the supervisor of the Examination center. A candidate who fails to produce his admission card will not be per mitted to
sit the Examination.
A set of rules and regulations to be observed by all candidates is published in this Gazette.
Note : The issue of an admission card to a candidate should not be treated as a proof that he or she has fulfilled the requisite
qualifications to sit the Examination.
11. Identity of Candidate  : A candidate will be required to prove his identity at the Examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject he offers. For this purpose, any of the following documents will be accepted.
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(b) A valid passport.
12. Penalty of Furnishing False Information : If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at
any stage prior or during or after the Examination. If any of the particulars furnishwd by a candidate is found to be false wit hin his
knowledge, or if he has will fully suppressed any material fact, he will be liable to be dismissed from the Public Service.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
317
13. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be dealt with as determined by the Secretary, Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs subject to the insturctions issued by the Public Service Commission.
14. Scheme of Examination : Language Medium of Examination : (A candidate will not be permitted to change the language of
examination given in the application)
(a) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English.levels of subjects given in the application.
(b) A candidate should sit the examination in the language in which he passed the qualifying examination or in an official
language. A candidate will not be permitted to change the language of examination given in the application.
(c) A candidate who has passed subjects at the qualifying examination in more than one language, should sit the examination
in the language in which he passed the majority of subjects at such examination or in an official language.
(d) A candidate with a Special Degree who has passed the principal subject at one language and the subsidiary subject in
another language should sit the examination in the language in which he passed the principal subject or in an official
language.
Note :
(i) The term "qualifying examination" in (b) and (c) above refers to the examination in which the candidate obtained the
basic qualifications required.
(ii) A candidate must sit all the papers of the examination in one and the same language.
(iii) A candidate will not be permitted to change the language of examination or subjects or levels of subjects given in the
application.
(iv) Candidates are subjected to the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on
conducting of this examination. Candidates are liable to be subjected to a punishment imposed by him for breach of these
rules.
15.  Method of Recruitment.—As determined by the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration & Home Affairs, recruitments
will be made by the Public Service Commission considering the recommendations of the interview board approved by Public Service
Commission for examination of qualifications, depending on the order of merit determined on the result of a written examination held by
the Commissioner General of Examination on behalf of the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration & Home Affairs.
(a) Intelligence Test : 100 marks - Duration - 1 hour
(b) General Paper : 100 marks - Duration - 3 hours
16. Syllabus :
Intelligence Test : This is designed to make an assessment of the candidate's power of logical reasoning and analysis and
ability to draw sound inferences. The question paper will be of the multiple-choice type with duration of 01 hour.
General Paper - This consists of two parts.
Part I - Consists of structured questions regarding broad scientific matters covering all subjects.
Part II - Consists of structured questions on general matters such as Economic, Political, and Art etc.
17. Number of appointments to be made and the effective dates of appointment will be decided by the Public Service
Commission. The Public Service Commission has the authority to decide on the number of vacancies to be filled or not to fill any vacancy.
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil & English texts of this gazette notification, the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
D. D
ISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration & Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration & Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 7.
17th of February, 2009.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
318
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Class II Grade II of the
Sri Lanka Scientific Service - 2007 (2009) Department  of Health
Index No. :
(For Office use only)
Language Medium of Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant letter in the cage)
Post Code & Number
01. Name of Applicant :———.
1:01 Name, with initials at the end (in English Block Capitals) :———.
1:02 Name in full (in Sinhala/Tamil) :———.
1:03 Full Name (in English Block Capitals) :———.
02. Address :———.
2:01 Address to which the admission card should be sent (in English) :———.
2:02 Of fice Address (in Sinhala/Tamil) :———.
03. Gender :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage).
04. National Identity Card Number  :
05. Age :
5.01 Date of Birth :———.
Year :———, Month :———, Date :———.
5.02 Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years :———, Months :———, Days :———.
06. Civil Status :
Married -1/Single - 2
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
07. Qualifications :
7.01 Educational Qualifications :
Indicate all examinations passed/degrees obtained including Class, subjects and Institutions/Universities.
Examination/Degree Class Y ear Subjects University/Institution
7.02 Professional Qualifications :———.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
319
08. The highest examination passed :
1. Sinhala
2. Tamil
3. English
09. Particulars of employment and/or training since leaving school (date of engagement and reasons for leaving should be indicat ed.)
:–––––––––.
10. Particulars of the present post held :
(a) Post :–––––––––.
(b) Department/Institution :–––––––––.
(c) Date of appointment :–––––––––.
(d) Whether permanent/pensionable/non-pensionable/temporary :–––––––––.
(e) Whether confirmed in the post :–––––––––.
(f) Salary scale of the post and the present salary :–––––––––.
11. Have you ever been convicted in a court of law for a criminal offence ? If so, furnish particulars of such conviction and pe nalty
imposed :–––––––––.
12. Please paste the receipt properly (It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with you.) :
Receipt No. :
Office to which the fee was paid :
Date :
I hereby certify that the particulars given by me in te application are true and correct. I am also aware that if any particula r
contained herein is found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification if detected before selection and to dismissal without
compensation, if detected after appointment and furthermore, I hereby state that I am bound by all rules and regulations of thi s
examination imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
———–––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :———.
REPORT OF THE HEAD OF DEPARTMENT IF THE APPLICANT IS IN THE PUBLIC SERVICE
I certify that the particulars given in paragraph 12 above are correct/need amendment as shown below and his/her work and
conduct …………………He/She can/cannot be released from the present post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department.
Designation :———.
Date :———.
03-68
FIRST  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS  IN  CLASS  II  GRADE  II  OF  THE  SRI  LANKA
PLANNING  SERVICE – 2008
THE First Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Planning Service will be held in Town 1 - Colombo
and Town 2 - Jaffna in June 2009 by the Commissioner General of Examinations. Closing date of applications for the examination will be
03rd April 2009.
02. Scheme of Examination
The Efficiency Bar Examination will consists of the following subjects :

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
320
(1) Planning concepts, Methodology, Planning Institutions,
Financial  and Administration 100-Marks  (Subject No. 01)
(2) Analysis of Economics and Statistics 100 Marks  (Subject No. 02)
(3) Project Planning 100 Marks (Subject No.  03)
(4) English Language 100 Marks (Subject No. 04)
Note :( a) An officer can sit all papers in one attempt or separately in several attempts
(b) A candidate should obtain 40% of Marks for a pass in each paper
(c) Each paper will be of 3 hour's duration
03. Subjects :
(i) Planning Concepts and Methodology, Planning Institutions, Finance and Adminstration
Part 1 :
(a) National Goals and priorities, and Policy framework and programmes for their achievement.
(b) Methodology for national planning, major problem areas in planning, participation of the public, mobilization of
resources and the Role of NGOO etc.
(c) Nature and Sources of data for National Planning, collection of data processing presentation and analysis of
interpretation, field supervision and investigations, demographic concepts Projection of  Economics and policy
analysis.
Part II
(a) Government Financial Regulations Part -1
(Excluding chapter x)
(b) Current year's Estimates
E. g.– Their preparation under Heads and Programmes, Financial Systems and Appropriation Acts and Supplementary
Estimates
(c) Office and Field Organization and Systems
(d) Establishment Code - Chapters
I, II, III, IV , V, VI, VII, IX, XI, XII, XV , XXIII, XXV, XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII,
XLVII, XLVIII.
(ii) Economic Analysis of Economics and statistics
(i) Principals of economics with special emphasis in theories of production and distribution.
(ii) Finance and Banking Syestems
International Monetary Systems and Trade
(iii) Analysis of Fiscal, Monetary, Trade, and Tariff Policies
(iv) Economic Structure of Sri Lanka
(v) Review of the Economy
(vi) Assessment of technically skilled and unskilled manpower and foreign aid including other resources and their
utilization
(vii) Economics, Scientific and Social Case Studies
(viii) Economic, Analysis and Basic statistical concepts and Methods used in planning
(ix) Principles of benefit/cost analysis
(iii) Project Planning
(i) Planning Identification, defining and formulation of Projects, selection of Policies, theories and place, estimation of
technology, costs and benefits, technical, financial and economic analysis.
(ii) Implementation of projects, proper and timely implementation of projects and programmes, preparation of detailed
operational plans and implementation Schedules, monitoring and progress control coordination and follow up action.
(iii) Evaluation of projects, Assessment of effectiveness of projects and programmes, analysis of benefits in relation to
costs.
(iv) English Language
This question paper is  intended to test the ability of an officer in the Sri Lanka Planning Service to work in English
in the discharge of his official duties.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
321
04. A specimen application form to be used in applying for this examination is appended at the end of this notification. All
applicants are advised to prepare their applications as per specimen given only in A-4 size paper. No paper of any other size s hould be
used for this purpose. Items 1-7 should be on page 1 and the rest on page 2. The form should be completed by the applicant's ow n
handwriting. Name of the examination given at the top should be written in English as well by all applicants.
05. All applications should be sent through the Head of the respective department (in the case of a Divisional Secretariat through
the Divisional Secretary) by registered post, to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign Examinations
Branch, Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla to reach him on or before 03rd April 2009. The name of  the Examination
should be clearly written on the top left corner of the envelope containing the application. Incomplete applications and those received
after the closing date will be rejected. Candidates may in their own interest keep a photostat copy of the application. This ex amination
will be conducted in Sinhalese, Tamil and English media and no candidate will be permitted to change the language medium, appli ed
for,New Entrant officers for the purposes of Official Language policy may prepare their applications in the official Language or in Tamil
or English in accordance with the Language Medium they were recruited.
06. An Admission card together with a copy of the time table of the examination will be issued by the Commissioner general of
Examination to all applicants whose applications have been accepted. Immediately after the admission cards are dispatched to th e
respective candidates, a press notice to that effect will be issued by the Commissioner General of Exminations. If any candidate does not
receive his admission card and the time table at least four days before the date of the Examination he should notify this fact in writing
immediately giving the following particulars to the Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign Examinations
Branch Department of Examiantions, Pelawatta Battaramulla. Telegraphic address - Examinations Battaramulla. If a candidate does  not
receive his admission card and time table, even 2 or 3 days after the date of the press notification he should immediately info rm the
Commissioner General of  Examinations of this fact in writing together with a certified photostat copy of his application., rec eipt issued
to him for Exmination fees paid, registration receipt issued by the post office and a fax number to which the admission card could be sent,
in case the applicant is residing outside Colombo.
(i) Name of exmination ;
(ii) Full name of the applicant ;
(iii) Address ;
(iv) Name of Post office at which application was posted and the date of registration and registration No..
07. Identity.– Candidates should prove their identity to the supervisor of the Examination every time they appear for  a subject
in the examination hall. For this purpose one of the following documents will be accepted.
(i) A valid identity card issued by the Commissioner for Registration of Persons ;
(ii)  A valid Passport.
The Commissioner General of Examination has the authority to cancel or reject the candidature of  any candidate who fails to
produce any of the documents mentioned above.
08. Exmination fees.– Candidates who sit the Examination above will be required to pay Examination fees on the basis setout
below.
Examination fee.
(a) First sitting - No fees will be charged
(b) For the whole exmination on each  subsequent sitting Rs. 115.00
(c)  A single subject Rs. 75.00
The relevant Examination fee must be paid to the credit of Revenue Head of the Commissioner General of Examinations
No.4000 - 20 - 03 - 20 - 13, at any Divisional Secretariat and the receipt obtained  should be securely affixed to the applicat ion form.
A copy of this receipt may be retained in your own interest.
09. This Examination in conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations, and all candidates will be required to abide
by the rules and regulations laid down by him in connection with this Examination. Rules and regulations published in Part I (II a) of this
Gazette are also applicable.
10. Duty leave to sit the above Examination should be granted by the Heads of Department to candidates who are eligible to sit
the Examination and to whom admission cards for the Examination have been  issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
322
11. Any matter not covered by these regulations will be dealt with at the discretion of the Secretary to the Ministry of Financ e
and Planning.
S. ABEYSINGHE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo 01.
17th February, 2009.
Form of Application
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN CLASS II GRADE II OF
THE SRI LANKA PLANNING SERVICE - 2008
(for Official only)
Town Town No.
Town and Town Number at Which the Medium of Examination applied
Candidate wishes to sit the examination
Sinhalese - 2
Colombo -1 Tamil - 3
Jaffna - 2 English - 4
(Write the relevant number in the cage given) Medium applied
for will not be allowed to be changed subsequently)
01. Name :
1.1 Name with initials last :––––––––––––.
(In English Block Capital e. g. Silva B. A)
1.2 Full Name :––––––––––––.
(Sinhalese/Tamil)
1.3 National Identity Card No. :
02. Office Address (In English Capitals) :
2.1 Office Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.2 Address to which admission cards should be sent (in English Block Capitals) :–––––––––––.
03. Female- 1   Male - 0 (Specify in the cage given) :
3.1 Sex : Female Male
3.2 Date of Birth :
Y ear                                   Month                        date
3.2 Age on the last date of closing applications :
Years                                    Months                     Days
04. Date of appointment to Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Planning Service (Give the date of assuming duties) :–––––––––––.
05. Are you an old entrant/new entrant for the purposes official language ? :–––––––––––.
06. Name of the Department (Name of Divisional Secretariat where applicable) :–––––––––––.
07. Subject offered in terms of Para 2 of the Gazette notification :
Subjects Subject No.
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
323
08. Are you sitting for the first time ? :––––––––––––.
09.  If not details regarding examination fees :
(affix the receipt securely, In your own interest you may retain a photostat copy of your receipt).
10. I do hereby declare that the particulars referred to above are correct and that I am eligible to sit this exmination in the language medium
given above. Further I declare that I shall abide by the decisions taken by of the Commissioner General of Examinations regarding the
conduct of this examination.
––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
Note : Candidate must place his signature in the presence of the Head of his/her Department or in the presence of an officer
authorized to sign on his/her behalf.
ATTESTATION OF SIGNATURE
I hereby certity that Mr/Mrs/Miss............................................................ who is an officer of my office an d who is known to
me personally placed his/her signature in my presence this.................. of ................. 2009.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
C
ERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEP ARTMENT
I do hereby certify that I verified the particluars given above and found them to be correct and that the applicant is eligible  to
sit the above examination.
–––––––––––,
Head of the Department.
(Official frank).
Designation :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
03-94
GENERAL  SIR  JOHN  KOTELAWALA  DEFENCE  UNIVERSITY
Undergraduate Cadetships (Male/Female)
1. APPLICATIONS are invited for Undergraduate Cadetships (Male and Female) in the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
2. The General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University is empowered to award Degrees by the General Sir John Kotelawala
Defence Acadamy Act, No. 68 of 1981 and subsequent amendments thereto, to those who have successfully completed the Academic and
Military components of studies pertaining to the Degree programmes.
3. The Degree Programmes applicable to these Cadets will be of three years duration for Arts, Commerce and Management, and
Technical Science Streams and Three and a half year duration for Engineering Stream.
3.1 The allocation of cadets for three Services will be based on the aggregate marks obtained at the three interviews,
conducted for selection and the availability of vacancies in each service. Cadets will be commissioned in the regular forces
of the Sri Lanka Army, Navy or Air Force as applicable on completion of two years of the Degree programmes.
3.2 On successful completion of the academic and military training components of three year as well as three and a half year
Degree programme, the Officer Cadets will be awarded Bachelor's Degree in Defence Studies in the disciplines of
Engineering, Management and Technical Sciences, Commerce or Arts as applicable.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
324
3.3 The Degree programmes are conducted in the medium of English.
3.4 Selected candidates will have to follow one of the following Bachelor's Degree Programmes in defence studies :
(i) Bachelor of Science in one of the following fields: (Three and a half year Duration)
(a) Civil Engineering
(b) Mechanical Engineering
(c) Electrical  & Electronic Engineering
(d) Marine Engineering
(e) Aeronautical Engineering
(For there who have followed physical science subjects at the G. C. E. (Advanced Level) examination and reached the
standard required to be considered for the university admission).
(ii) Bachelor of Science in Management and Technical Sciences (Three year duration)
For those who have reached the standard required to be considered for University admission, Bio-Science with Physics
or Mathematics as a subject or Physical Science at the GCE (Advanced Level) examination.
(iii) Bachelor of Commerce (Three year duration)
For those with Commerce subjects at the G .C.E. (Advanced Level) examination and reached the standard required to be
considered for University admission.
(iv) Bachelor of Arts (Three year duration)
For those who have studied Arts subjects including one of the following subjects at the G.C.E. (Advanced Level)
Examination and reached the standard required to be considered for University admission.
Geography, Economics, History, Business Statistics, Business Studies, Political Science, English (Subject No. 73),
Mathematics (Subject No. 07)
3.5 Selected candidates are required to follow a range of common and special subjects pertaining to the respective Degree
programmes including English, Management, Law, International Studies and Military subjects.
3.6 They are also be required to undergo continuous training in physical development, Drill, Weapon Training and Leadership
etc., during the full period of the Degree Programme.
4. Eligibility requirements for undergraduate Cadetships :
(i) The candidates should ;
(a) be citizens of Sri Lanka ;
(b) be not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years of age on 03rd April, 2009 ;
(c) who have been pronounced as eligible to apply for University admission by the Commissioner General of Examinations
and have fulfilled the following requirements :
(ii) Those who offered three (3) subjects at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held under the new scheme  should have
obtained at least "S" Grades :
(a) in all three approved subjects ;
                             and
(b) passed the Common General Paper and be eligible for University admission. (Please attached a copy of Certificate
to confirm the eligibility to apply for University admission issued by the School or Department of Examinations).
(iii) have a minimum of a Credit (C) Pass for the subject of English Language at the G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination.
(iv) Satisfy the following minimum physical standards :
Male : Height - For Army : 165.1cm  (5'5")
For Navy : 167.6 cm (5'6")
For Air Force : 167.6 cm (5' 6")
Weight - 50Kgs (110 lbs)
Chest - 81.25cm (32" unexpand)
Female : Height - For Army : 152.4 cm (5'0")
For Navy : 160cm (5'3")

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
325
Note : (if a candidate possesses outstanding achievements in sports or other relevant fields, the above physical standards may
be relaxed by the Secretary, Ministry of Defence, Public Security, Law and Order and Chairman of the Board of Management, General Sir
John Kotelawala Defence University)
(v) conform to the required medical standards. Successful candidates are required to pass a medical test to the satisfaction
of the Secretary, Ministry of Defence, Public Security, Law and Order and Chairman of the Board of Management,
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University ;
(vi) be unmarried. (No Cadet or Officer will be permitted to marry whilst under training and until permitted to do so by
Service regulations.)
5. Conditions of Service  : Selected candidates will be enlisted as Officer Cadets of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence
University. They will be subjected to laws, regulations, and orders under the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy Act, No. 68
of 1981 and subsequent amendments thereto.
6. At the time of enlistment selected candidates will have to enter into a Bond and Agreement with the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka to serve for a minimum period of 10 or 12 years as applicable, after commissioning in the Service to which they are
posted.
7. Officer Cadets will be paid the pay and allowances, as applicable. The consolidated pay of an Officer Cadet is Rs.180,240
per annum. In addition, the following facilities are also available free of charge for Officer Cadets :
(i) board and lodging;
(ii) Medical facilities ;
(iii) uniforms ;
(iv) batmen facilities ;
(v) Sports and recreational facilities.
8. On being commissioned to the Regular Forces of the Sri Lanka Army, Navy or Air Force, they will be paid the pay and
allowances appropriate to the rank in accordance with the Service pay codes :
(a) The salary scales assigned to Officers up to the rank of Lieutenant Colonel/Commander/ Wing Commander are as
follows :
2/Lt/Actg. Sub Lt/Pilot Officer - Rs. 189,240 per annum .
Lieutenant/Sub Lieutenant ./Flying Officer
  Rs.275,220-30x7,740-Rs.507,420 per annum.
Captain/Lieutenant/Flt. Lieutenant
  Rs 321,660-24 x 7, 740 - Rs.507,420 per annum ;
Major/Lieutenant Commander/Sqn. Leader
  Rs.352,620 - 20 x 7,740-Rs.507,420  per annum ;
Lt. Col/Commander/Wing Commander
  Rs.362,100-15 x 9,480-Rs.504,300 per annum ;
(b) The Following allowances are payable monthly :
(i) qualification pay;
(ii) ration allowance;
(iii) disturbance allowance when ordered to live in (for married officers only);
(iv) uniform up keep allowance.
(c) The following facilities are available/allowances payable :
(i) accommodation when ordered to live in;
(ii) rent allowance ;
(iii) uniforms allowance ;
(iv) batmen allowance;
(v) One return  duty warrant a month from place of work to home station to those who are ordered to "live in".
9.Officers of the Army/Navy/Air Force will be governed by the following regulations in respect of their pay prospects and
conditions of Service :
(i) the Army/Navey/Air Force Pay Code ;
(ii) current regulations for Officers of the Army/Navy/Air Force published in the Sri Lanka  Government Gazette ;

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
326
(iii) current Army/Navy/Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code published in the  Sri Lanka Government Gazette.
10. During the course of training, Officer Cadets are required to undergo such training as may be prescribed by the Commandant/
Vice Chancellor, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University and or respective Service Commanders.
11. Officer Cadets under training are liable to be posted for training to any part of Sri Lanka or abroad.
12. Officer Cadets under training  will be  required to live in, in accommodation provided and follow a routine laid down by the
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University or by the respective Service Establishments.
13. Language requirements .– Selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules and  regulations already made or
that may hereafter be made for giving effect to the language policy of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
14. Proof of Identity.– Candidates will be required to produce proof as to their identity. Identity cards issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons or Post Master- General and Driving Licenses issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles will be accep ted for
this purpose.
15. Applications.– Those who wish to  apply for Cadetships, can either prepare the application as in the specimen application
form appended to this notification or obtain application forms and the brochure which provides more information by sending  a s elf
addressed 09" x 04" envelope with stamp worth of Rs. 5 (Five Rupees) to the Registrar of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defenc e
University or can be down loaded from website www.Kdu.lk.
16. Duly filled applications should accompany a receipt obtained by paying Rs.100 (One Hundred Rupees) to any Bank of
Ceylon Branch in the Island in favour of "Commandant/Vice Chancellor, Kotelawala Defence University" to be Credited to Current
Account Number  "681950" of Bank of  Ceylon "Moratuwa–Idama"Branch. The applications without basic qualifications, and the
applications not duly  filled and not in accordance with the conditions of this information will be rejected. The application fee will not be
refunded under any  circumstances.
17. The perfected applications should be forwarded in duplicate to the "Registrar, General Sri John Kotelawala Defence
University, Kandawala Estate, Ratmalana" under registered cover to reach him on or before 03rd April, 2009, The left- hand top corner
of the envelope should be marked "Application for Cadetships". Applications received at the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence
University after the closing date or do not conform  to the requirements of this notification will be  rejected.
18.  Applications from Officers in Government Service and Corporations or Statutory Bodies should be forwarded through the
Head of the Department/Corporation/Statutory Bodies and should accompany a certificate to the effect that the Officer would be released
if selected.
19. Applications should be accompanied by copies of certificates of Registration of Birth and educational qualifications.
20. Preliminary selection will be made from among those candidates who have achieved the required standards in accordance
with the evaluation criterion determined by the Selection Committee appointed by the Board of Management of the General Sir Joh n
Kotelawala Defence University. Candidates so selected will be required to undergo tests as may be prescribed by the Board of  Management
of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University. The final selection will be made by the Final Selection Committee appointed by
the Board of Management of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
21. Candidates calling for interviews and tests will be informed in writing of the venues, times and the dates of such interviews.
No travelling or other expenses will be paid for this purpose to applicants.
22. Any one who desires to recommend a  candidate should do so by giving him a  testimonial. Any form of canvassing would
be a disqualification.
23. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. No correspondence or inquiries will be enteraitned with regard to rejected
applications.
G
OTABAYA RAJAP AKSA, RWP, RSP, psc,
Secretary, Ministry of Defence, Public Security, Law and Order,
and Chairman of the Board of Management,
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
327
For Office Use
THE GENERAL SIR JOHN KOTELAWALA DEFENCE UNIVERSITY
APPLICATION FOR UNDERGRADUA TE CADETSHIPS
NICD No. :
01. Name (In Block Letters) :———.
(a) Full Name :———.
(b) Name with Initials : Mr/Miss :———.
02. ( a) Address :———.
(b) Tele. No. :———.
03. Date of Birth :         
Date Month Year
04.Age as at 03.04.2009 :
Years Months days
05. Civil Status :            Married    Single
06.Sex : Male Female
07. Sri Lanka Citizenship : By Descent/By Registration
08. Educational Qualifications :
(a) GCE (O/L) Examination : ( b) G.C.E. (A/L) Examination :
Name of the School you studied for the GCE (O/L) Name of the School you studied for the G .C.E (A/L)
Examination :———. Examination :———.
Index No. : ———. Index No. : ———.
Year : ———. Year : ———.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. ………………… …………… 1. ………………… ……………
2. ………………… …………… 2. ………………… ……………
3. ………………… …………… 3. ………………… ……………
4. ………………… ……………
5. ………………… …………… 4. General Test Marks .......... Z Score .............
6. ………………… …………… Stream
7. ………………… ……………
8. ………………… …………… Physical Bio Commerce Arts
9. ………………… ……………
Maximum Grade obtained for English Language at the Whether you have been pronounced as eligible to apply for
G .C.E. (O/L) Examination : university admission by the Commissioner General of
Examinations :
Ye s N o
Old/New Scheme
(Please attach a copy of the result sheet or a letter from the
Principal)

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
328
09. Games  represented :
*SL *DL *CL *NL
(a) Athletics
(b) Badminton
(c) Basketball
(d) Cricket
(e) Hockey
(f) Rugby
(g) Soccer
(h) Swimming
(i) Table Tennis
(j) Tennis
(k) V olley Ball
(l) Wrestling
(m) Karate
(n) Judo
(o) Boxing
(p) Squash
*SL - School Level *DL - District Level * CL - Club Level*NL - National Level
10. Extra Curricular Activities :
(a) Band
(b) Cadeting
(c) Scouting
(d) Societies
(e) Prefect
(f) House Captain
(g) School Captain
(h)
(i)
11. Physical Requirements :
Height Weight Chest
Ft. Inches Lbs. Inches
12.   Any other relevant facts .................................. (Please attach a separate sheet if necessary)
13.  Details of two referees :
Name Address Designation T elephone No.
(i)
…………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
…………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
…………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
(ii)
…………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
…………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
…………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
329
14.  Please pay One Hundred Rupees (Rs.100) to any Bank of Ceylon Branch in favour of "Vice Chancellor/Commandant, Kotelawala
Defence University" to be credited to Current Account No. "681950" of Bank of Ceylon "Moratuwa - Idama Branch" and give
following details. (Receipt should be attached hereto).
(i) Date of Payment :–––––––––.
(ii) BOC Branch of payment :–––––––––.
15.  I declare in honour that the information given above  are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I am aware that if  any
information given in the application are found to be incorrect, prior to my selection, I am liable to be disqualified, and if i t is found
after the selection I am liable to be dismissed without any compensation.
——–––––––—,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :———.
02-122
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry of Vocational and Technical Training
DEP ARTMENT OF TECHNICAL EDUCA TION AND TRAINING
POST IN CLASS III (SPECIAL CADRE) OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNICAL EDUCATION SER VICE
APPLICATIONS are invited for the under mentioned posts Scheduled under Class III (Special Cadre) of the Sri Lanka Technical
Education Service in the Department of Technical Education and Training.
Designation
Serial Post V acancies Vacancies Vacancies
No. Sinhala Tamil English
Medium Medium Medium
01 Instructor in Electronics 26 07 -
02 Instructor in Building Trade 36 09 -
03 Instructor in Motor Mechanism 18 09 -
04 Instructor in Wood work 46 09 -
05 Instructor in Refrigeration and Air Conditioning 17 02 -
06 Instructor in Technical Drawing 24 08 -
07 Instructor in Electrical Trade 08 09 -
08 Instructor in English - - 66
09 Instructor in Computer Technology 41 08 -
10 Instructor in Science and Maths 01 01 -
11 Instructor in Commerce 02 02 -
12 Instructor in Metal Work 08 06 -
Applications on form, a specimen of which is given below should be sent under registered cover to reach the "Director General,
Department of Technical Education and Training, P. O. Box 557, Colombo 10" on or before 31st March, 2009. The envelope enclosing the
application should be marked "Post in Class III (Special Cadre) of the Sri Lanka Technical Education Service" on the top left hand corner.
Candidates applying for more than one post should send one applications indicating designation numbers and posts according to y our
preference for each post applied for only those who are posses basic qualification according to gazette notification will be called to written
examination.
02. Terms of Employment and Condition of Service :
(a) This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected candidates will be required to contribute to the "widows and
orphans/Widower and orphans" pension Scheme and will be placed on three years probation.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
330
The Efficiency Bar :
(b) According to the Public Administrative Circular No. 20/2001, Every officer appointed to a post should complete 01st
Efficiency Bar before 04th step and 2nd efficiency bar before 7th step of the Salary Scale. Failure to complete the
Efficiency Bar within the stipulated period will result in the deferment of the increment and the period taken in excess of
the time allowed will be treated as a period of deferment of increment. These officers will also become ineligible to apply
for any higher post within Sri Lanka Technical Education Service until they complete the Efficiency Bar.
(c) Officers appointed to Class III (Special Cadre) of the Sri Lanka Technical Education Service are expected to obtain the
competency in second language within 05 years from the date of appointment in accordance to the public administrative
Circular No. 07/2007. Failure to complete the competency in the second language within the stipulated period will result
in the deferment of the increment. The Language proficiency of these officers is, pass the Sinhala/Tamil in G. C. E. (O/L)
as a main subject (should not be a 2nd language or optional subject) and pass the oral test held by the Department of
official languages or pass the special skills examination held by the Department of official languages.
03. Salary and allowance.– The monthly consolidated salary scale relevant to this post is Rs. 22,935 - 645 x 10 - 790 x 8-1,050
- 17 - Rs. 53,555. Payments will be made in terms of P. A. Circular No. 06/2006 salary code : SL-1-2006. Payment of increment w ill be
subjected to the completion of the Efficiency Bar specified in para 2(b) above.
04. Qualifications Required.– Every applicant should furnish satisfactory proof that he/she possesses following qualifications
by the closing date of applications :
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Is of excellent moral character and physically fit ;
(c) Should not be less than 21 years and not more than 45 years of age on the closing date of applications ;
(d) Should have the professional/academic qualifications and relevant experience appended below for each post.
05. Educational and professional Qualifications :
05.1 Instructor in Electronics :
(i) National Diploma in Technology (Electronics and Telecommunication) ; or
(ii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Electrical Engineering Electronics) ; or
(iii) National Certificate in Technology (Electrical and Electronics Engineering) ; or
(iv) Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds of London Institute (in the relevant field) ; and
The G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects including Sinhala/Tamil language and Mathematics/Arithmetic at not
more than two sittings ; or
(v) Equivalent or higher, recognized Technician Level qualifications in the relevant field. (Qualifications accepted by the
Ministry of Public Administration and University Grant Commission) ; and
Five years teaching and/or practical experience in relevant field after obtaining one of the above qualifications.
5.2 Instructor in Building Trades :
(i) National Diploma in technology (Civil Engineering) ; or
(ii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Civil Engineering) ; or
(iii) National Certificate in Technology (Civil Engineering) ; or
(iv) Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds of London Institute (in the relevant field) ; and
The G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects including Sinhala/Tamil language and Mathematics/Arithmetic at not
more than two sittings ; or
(v) Equivalent or higher recognized Technician level qualifications in the relevant field (Qualifications accepted by the
Ministry of Public Administration and University Grant Commission) ; and
Five years teaching and/or practical experience in the relevant field after obtaining one of the above qualifications.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
331
5.3 Instructor in Motor Mechanism :
(i) National Diploma in Technology (Mechanical Engineering Motor Mechanism) ; or
(ii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Mechanical Engineering - Motor Mechanism) ; or
(iii) National Certificate in Technology (Mechanical Engineering) ; or
(iv) Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds of London Institute (in the relevant field) ; and
The G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects including Sinhala/Tamil language and Mathematics/Arithmetic at not
more than two sittings ; or
(v) Equivalent or higher recognized Technician level qualifications in the relevant field (Qualifications accepted by the
Ministry of Public Administration and University Grant Commission) ; and
Five years teaching and/or practical experience in the relevant field after obtaining one of the above qualifications.
5.4 Instructor in Wood Work :
(i) National Diploma in Technology (Mechanical Engineering) ; or
(ii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Mechanical Engineering) ; or
(iii) National Certificate in Technology (Mechanical/Civil Engineering) ; or
(iv) Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds of London Institute (in the relevant field) ; and
The G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects including Sinhala/Tamil language and Mathematics/Arithmetic at not
more than two sittings ; or
(v) Equivalent or higher recognized Technician level qualifications in the relevant field (Qualifications accepted by the
Ministry of Public Administration and University Grant Commission) ; and
Five years teaching and/or practical experience in the relevant field after obtaining one of the above qualifications.
5.5 Instructor in Refrigeration and Air Conditioning :
(i) National Diploma in Technology (Mechanical/Production Engineering) ; or
(ii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Mechanical Engineering - Refrigeration and Air Conditioning) ; or
(iii) National Certificate in Technology (Mechanical Engineering) ; or
(iv) Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds of London Institute (in the relevant field) ; and
The G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics/Arithmetic at not
more than two sittings ; or
(v) Equivalent or higher recognized Technician level qualifications in relevant field (Qualifications accepted by the
Ministry of Public Administration and University Grant Commission) ; and
Five years teaching and/or practical experience in the relevant field after obtaining one of the above qualifications.
5.6 Instructor in Technical Drawing :
(a) (i) National Diploma in Technology (Mechanical Engineering) ; or
(ii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Mechanical Engineering) ; or
(iii) National Certificate in Technology (Mechanical Engineering) ; or
(iv) Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds of London Institute (in the relevant field) ; and
The G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects including Sinhala/Tamil language and Mathematics/Arithmetic
at not more than two sittings ; or
(v) Equivalent or higher recognized Technician level qualifications in the relevant field (Qualifications accepted by
the Ministry of Public Administration and University Grant Commission) ; and
Five years teaching and/or practical experience in the relevant field obtaining one of the above qualifications.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
332
5.7 Instructor in Electrical Trade :
(i) National Diploma in Technology (Electrical Engineering) ; or
(ii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Electrical Engineering) ; or
(iii) National Certificate in Technology (Electrical and Electronics Engineering) ; or
(iv) Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds of London Institute (in the relevant field) ; and
The G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects including Sinhala/Tamil language and Mathematics/Arithmetic at not
more than two sittings ; or
(v) Equivalent or higher recognized Technician level qualifications in the relevant field (Qualifications accepted by the
Ministry of Public Administration and University Grant Commission) ; and
Five years teaching and/or practical experience in the relevant field after obtaining one of the above qualifications.
5.8 Instructor in English :
(a) (i) A Degree from a recognized University with English as a subject and with 03 years experience in teaching
English.
5.9 Instructor in Computer Technology :
(a) (i) B. Sc. Degree in Computer Science/Computer Engineering obtained from recognized University ; or
(ii) B.Sc. Degree with computer subject as a major subject obtained from recognized University ; or
(iii) B. Sc. (Engineering) Degree with computer science or computer subject obtained from recognized University ; or
(iv) B. Sc. Degree obtained from a recognized University or Post Graduate Diploma in Information Technology
obtained from a recognized University ; and
Three years teaching and/or practical experience, in the field of Computer Technology, after obtaining above
qualifications ; or
(v) Two years full time Higher Diploma in Computer Technology awarded by the National Institute of Business
Management ; or
(vi) Equivalent or higher qualifications (Qualifications accepted by the Ministry of Public Administration and
University Grant Commission) ; and
Five years teaching and/or practical experience in Computer Technology field.
5.10 Instructor in Science and Maths :
(i) A Degree from a recognized university with Physics and Mathematics (Applied or Pure) and 03 years teaching
experience after obtained the Degree.
5.11 Instructor in Commerce :
(i) A Degree from a recognized university in Business Administration or Public Administration or Commerce or
Economics ; or
(ii) Diploma in Commerce obtained from Technical College under Department of Technical Education and Training/Sri
Lanka Institute of Advance Technology ; or
(iii) Equivalent or higher qualifications (Qualifications accepted by the Ministry of Public Administration and University
Grant Commission) ; and
Three years teaching and/or practical experience in relevant field after obtaining qualification.
5.12 Instructor in Metal Work :
(i) National Diploma in Technology (Mechanical Engineering) ; or
(ii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Mechanical Engineering) ; or

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
333
(iii) National Certificate in Technology (Mechanical Engineering) ; or
(iv) Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds of London Institute (in the relevant field) ; and
The G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects including Sinhala/Tamil language and Mathematics/Arithmetic at not
more than two sittings ; or
(v) Equivalent or higher, recognized Technician level qualifications in relevant field (Qualifications accepted by the
Ministry of Public Administration and University Grant Commission) ; and
Five years teaching and/or practical experience in relevant field after obtaining one of the above qualifications.
06. Copies of following documents certified by you should be attached with the application :
(i) Certificate of Registration of Birth. ( N. B.- Baptismal Certificate or the Certificate of Birth issued for the purpose of
the Code of Regulations for Assisted Schools will not be accepted) ;
(ii) Degree certificate or other educational certificates ;
(iii) Certificate of professional and/or technical qualifications ;
(iv) Certificate of the highest examination passed in Sinhala, Tamil and English.
07. Applications of officers in the State Service must be forwarded through the Heads of their respective Departments.
08. Reference is requested to General Conditions applicable to appointments in the State Services, published at the beginning
of Part I Section (IIA) of this Gazette and also to the Minute of Sri Lanka Technical Education Service, published in the Gazette No. 415
General Part I of 15.08.1986 and amendments to the said Minute on decisions taken by the Cabinet of Ministers from time to time. Being
Public Servants, selected Officers should serve two full sessions at their respective colleges.
09. All the applicants must appear for an open competitive test conducted by Commissioner General of Examination comprising
following components :
(i) General Knowledge - 100 marks - duration 1 hour,
(ii) General Intelligence - 100 marks - duration 1 hour.
09.1 Candidates selected according to the merit order of the competitive examination, should face an interview to examine the
basic qualifications, mentioned in the Gazette Notification (Marks will not be given for the interview). Applicants who
have obtained 40% or above marks for each module will be considered for the priority list which will be based on the
aggregate marks accumulated by them.
Syllabus :
10.1 General Knowledge - 1 hour
This question paper has been set to assess the candidate's knowledge of Economic, Social, Political, Geographical and
Scientific matters at National and International level. In this question paper, some questions are given expecting the
correct answers from candidates themselves and another set of questions is given to find out the ability of the candidate
to select the correct answer.
10.2 General Intelligence - 1 hour
This question paper, limited to one hour is set to assess the candidate's ability for logical thinking and decision making.
This is a multiple choice question paper.
11. Date of Examination.– This examination will be held in Colombo city (city No. 01) and Jaffna city (city No. 02) in end of
April, 2009. The Secretary reserves the right to postpone or cancel this examination subject to instructions given by the Publi c Service
Commission. Accordingly, the town in which the candidate intends to sit the examination and the town number should be indicated in the
application form accurately. It will not be permitted to change the town indicated subsequently under circumstance.
12. Examination Fee .– The fee of the examination is Rs. 300. It should be paid before the closing date of applications at any
People's Bank branch to be credited to Director General, Department of Technical Education and Training, to the Account No. 176-1001-
39026228 (Mid City Branch). The receipt obtained from the People's Bank should be pasted to the relevant cage in the application form.
This fee is not refundable. It should be useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
334
13. Vacancies will be filled according to the merit order of the open competitive test.
14. The Public Service Commission reserves the right, not to fill all or a part of the vacancies.
15. Clauses of Sections 10-12 of Chapter II of Establishment's Code will be relevant as suitable for the post.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
T
HILAK HAPANGAMA,
Secretary,
Ministry of V ocational and Technical Education.
Ministry of V ocational and Technical Training,
Elewitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05,
2009.
Specimen Application Form
M
INISTRY OF VOCA TIONAL AND TECHNICAL TRAINING
POSTS IN CLASS III (SPECIAL CADRE) OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNICAL EDUCA TION SERVICE UNDER THE DEPARTMENT OF TECHNICAL EDUCA TION AND TRAINING
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF INSTRUCTOR IN Designation Posts
Serial Nos.
1.0 Medium : 2.0 City :
Language medium of examination Indicate city in which the candidate intends to sit for
the examination
Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, English - 4
(indicate the relevant number in the cage) Relevant City No. :
(as per para 1 of notification of examination) It will
not be allowed to change the city subsequently.
01. Name (with initials) Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––.
02. Name in full :–––––––––.
03. Official Address :–––––––––.
04. Private Address :–––––––––.
05. ( a) Whether a Sri Lankan :–––––––––.
(b) If so, by decent or by registration :–––––––––.
06. ( a) Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Date :–––––––––.
(b) National Identity Card No. :–––––––––.
07. Age as at closing date of Application :
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
08. Married or Single :–––––––––.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
335
09. Particulars of present post :
(a) Post and the date of appointment :–––––––––.
(b) Whether permanent or temporary :–––––––––.
(c) Whether pensionable or non-pensionable :–––––––––.
(d) Whether confirmed in the post :–––––––––.
(e) Department :–––––––––.
(f) Institute/Place of work :–––––––––.
(g) Annual consolidated salary scale :–––––––––.
(h) Present annual consolidated salary :–––––––––.
10. Particulars of Educational Qualifications (Including certificates of proficiency in Sinhala/Tamil Language) :
Examination University/Institute Year Subjects
1.
2.
3.
4.
11. Particulars of professional Qualifications :
Certificate Institution Year Subjects
1.
2.
3.
4.
12. Institutions attended for General Education :
Institution Class From To
1.
2.
3.
4.
13. Institutions attended for professional Education :
Institution Course From To
1.
2.
3.
4.
14. Previous appointments (to be stated in chronological order with exact dates) :
Department Institute/Place of work Post Whether post is Permanent or Temporary From To
1.
2.
3.
4.
15. Whether you have been convicted in a Court or Law ? If so give details :–––––––––.
16. If served in a Government Department or Board/Corporation in Public Sector, state reasons for termination of service :–––––– ––.
17. Is there any disciplinary inquiry pending against you ? If so state details in brief :–––––––––.
Receipt of the Examination fees

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
336
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. I am also aware that if any pa rticulars
contained therein are found to be false and incorrect, before selections, I am liable to disqualification and to dismissal with out
compensation if the inaccuracy is discovered after the appointment.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––
RECOMMENDA TION OF THE HEAD OF THE DEP ARTMENT
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––.
03–158

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
337
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I ... ... ... ... ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I ... ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II ... ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III ... ... ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II ... ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III ... ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V ... ... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI ... ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2009
338
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2009
MARCH 06.03.2009 Friday — 20.02.2009 Friday 12 noon
13.03.2009 Friday –– 27.02.2009 Friday 12 noon
20.03.2009 Friday –– 06.03.2009 Friday 12 noon
27.03.2009 Friday –– 13.03.2009 Friday 12 noon
APRIL 03.04.2009 Friday — 20.03.2009 Friday 12 noon
08.04.2009 Wednesday –– 27.03.2009 Friday 12 noon
17.04.2009 Friday –– 03.04.2009 Friday 12 noon
24.04.2009 Friday –– 08.04.2009 Wednesday 12 noon
30.04.2009 Thursday –– 17.04.2009 Friday 12 noon
MAY 07.05.2009 Thursday — 24.04.2009 Friday 12 noon
15.05.2009 Friday –– 30.04.2009 Thursday 12 noon
22.05.2009 Friday –– 07.05.2009 Thursday 12 noon
29.05.2009 Friday –– 15.05.2009 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.