

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2383$45 - 2024 uehs ui 11 jeks fikiqrdod - 2024.05.11
No. 2383/45  -  saturday,   may  11,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6726 - 284 (05/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
uNIvERSITIES  ACT,  No. 16  Of  1978
Order under Section  27(1)(b) read with Section 25A
By virtue of powers vested in me by section 27(1)(b) read with section 25a of the universities act, No. 16 of 1978, 
1, dr. a. d. susil Premajayantha, the minister of Education having obtained a report under section 70C of the aforesaid 
act, in respect of the International College of Business and technology Limited, a company incorporated in sri Lanka under 
the Companies act. No. No.7 of 2007 and bearing registration Number PB 1437 and located at No.36, de Krester Place,  
r. a. de mel mawatha, Colombo 04, being recognized as a degree awarding institute, do by this Order amend the schedule 
II to the Order made under the said act, and published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 2302/17of October 10, 2022, by the 
addition immediately after the entry “Bachelor of science Honours in software Engineering” appearing in Column I and 
it’s corresponding entry in Column II thereto, of the entries specified under Columns I and II respectively of the schedule II 
hereto, subject to the conditions specified in schedule I hereto :-
sCHEduLE I
Conditions
1. International College of Business and technology Limited shall, when admitting students for the degree programme 
specified in Schedule II hereto in respect of the Bachelor of Science Honours in Information Technology in Cyber 
security, Bachelor of science Honours in Information technology in data science and Bachelor of science Honours 
in Information Technology in Artificial Intelligence with a minimum of 120 credits (SLQF Level 06), adhere to the 
minimum entry qualification of -

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'05'11
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.05.2024
2a
  (a) at least three (03) simple passes (s) in Physical science subject stream or Engineering technology stream 
in one and the same sitting at the GCE (advanced Level) Examination conducted by the department of 
Examinations of Sri Lanka or equivalent qualification ; or
 (b) at least three (03) simple passes (s) in any stream in one and the same sitting at the GCE (advanced Level) 
Examination conducted by the Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka or equivalent qualification and a 
simple pass (s) for Information & Communication technology, in any attempt at the GCE (advanced Level) 
Examination conducted by the Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka or equivalent qualification and a 
Credit pass (C) in mathematics at the GCE Ordinary Level Examination conducted by the department of 
Examinations of Sri Lanka or equivalent qualification ; or
 (c) at least three (03) simple passes (s) in any stream in one and the same sitting at the GCE (advanced Level)
Examination conducted by the Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka or equivalent qualification and a 
Credit pass (C) in mathematics at the GCE Ordinary Level Examination conducted by the department of 
Examinations of Sri Lanka or equivalent qualification with a bridging programme approved by Specified 
authority.
2. International College of Business and Technology Limited shall be recognized to offer degrees specified in Schedule II 
hereto subject to the five (05) years re-review conducted by the Specified Authority.
  
sCHEduLE  II
Column I
Degree Programme
Column II
Abbreviations to the Degree
Bachelor of science Honours in Information technology in 
Cyber security
BscHons (It) (Cyber security)
Bachelor of science Honours in Information technology in 
data science
BscHons (It) (data science)
Bachelor of science Honours in Information technology in 
Artificial Intelligence
BScHons (IT) (Artificial Intelligence)
 dr. A. D. S uSil  PremAjAyAnthA  (m.P.),
 minister of Education.
Colombo,
25th april, 2024.
EOG 05 - 0089
PrinteD A t the DePArtment  OF GOVernment  PrintinG,  Sri lAnKA.