

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2014
w;s úfYI
wxl 1877$28 - 2014 wf.daia;= ui 28 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2014'08'28
No. 1877/28  - THURSDAY ,  AUGUST  28,  2014
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 1A
MINUTE   OF  SRI   LANKA   ARCHITECTS'  SERVICE
FOLLOWING  Minute of the Sri Lanka Architects' Service is hereby substituted without prejudice to any action taken or
purported to be taken in terms of the Minute of the Sri Lanka Architects' Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 888/2 dated 12th September 1995, and the revisions made to the same time to
time.
                                                                                         On the order of Public Service Commission,
T. M. L. C. S
ENARATHNA,
Secretary,
Public Service Commission.
28th August  2014.
01. Effective Date : This Service Minute shall be effective from 05.04.2013.
02. Appointing Authority : Public Service Commission
03. Service category/Service categories
3.1 Service category : Executive
Senior Executive
3.2 Grades : Executive Grade III
Executive Grade II
Executive Grade I
Senior Executive Special Grade
04. Role :
Planning the activities relevant to the role of Architect entrusted to the Head of the Institution and activities such
as Built Environment, Architectural Design and Consultation, Project Management associated to building
construction, Archeological and Architectural Conservation which fall under the field of Architecture entrusted
specifically by the Head of the Institution shall be performed by the officers holding the posts in this service.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2014
05. Salaries :
5.1 Salary Code Number : Executive - SL-1-2006
Senior Executive -SL-3-2006
5.2 Salary Scale : Executive - SL-1-2006 - Rs. 22,935 - 10x645 -   8x790 -  17x1050 - Rs. 53,555
Senior Executive :  - SL-3-2006 - Rs. 42,390 - 12x1310 - Rs. 58,110
5.3 Initial salary step applicable to grading system :
Grade Initial salary step Initial Salary point (Rs)
Grade III (SL-1-2006) Rs. 22,935
1st Step
Grade II (SL-1-2006) Rs. 30,175
12th Step
Grade I (SL-1-2006) Rs. 36,755
20th Step
Special Grade (SL-3-2006) Rs. 42,390
1st Step
Note : The officer shall be placed on the 5th salary step of Grade III of Sri Lanka Architects' Service either on the
basis of possession of full professional qualifications (Status of Chartered Architect) at the time of recruitment to
Grade III of Sri Lanka Architects' Service or when he possesses the same status after recruitment. However, such
officer shall pass the first Efficiency Bar Examination before the lapse 3 years from the date of recruitment to service.
06. Posts belonging to the service
                6.1   Approved posts and number of posts
Approved post Number of Tasks
approved posts
Posts in Grade III/II 50
Posts in Grade I 05
Posts in Special Grade 01
                6.2    Combined number of officers 55(III/II, I)
01 (Special Grade)
For the purpose of promotions from grade to grade III/II, I shall be treated as belonging to the Combined Number of
Officers.
Architectural Designing and Project Management
relevant to the same, work supervision of the officers
 relevant to the field, coordination on progress review.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2014
6.3 Nature of the posts : Permanent and pensionable
07. Method of recruitment
7.1 Ratio of recruitment
Stream Percentage
Open 75%
Limited 25%
Merit -
Note : At such instances where a sufficient number of  candidates qualified under limited stream is not found the
remaining number shall be recruited under the open stream.
7.2 Recruitment under open stream
7.2.1 Recruitment Grade : Grade III of Sri Lanka Architects' Service
7.2.2 Qualifications :
7.2.2.1 Educational Qualifications :
Shall have possessed Bachelor of Architecture Degree/BSC degree on Built Environment
recognized by the University Grants Commission from a university recognized by the University
Grants Commission.
7.2.2.2 Professional Qualifications :
Full professional qualification (shall have possessed status of Chartered Architect)
Note : Shall be applicable strictly to the applicants who are recruited under section 7.2.3.2
7.2.2.3 Experience : Not applicable
7.2.2.4 Physical fitness : Shall have the physical fitness to serve in any part of the island and to perform
the duties of the post
7.2.2.5 Other : I. Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka
II. Shall be of excellent character
III. Shall have sat the Open Competitive Examination of Sri Lanka Architects' Service for not
more than two sittings.
IV . Shall have possessed each and every way all the qualifications mentioned from 7.2.2 to 7.2.3
required for recruitment to the post as at the date prescribed in the Gazette Notification
published for calling of applications.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2014
7.2.3 Age :
7.2.3.1 The minimum age limit : 21 years
7.2.3.2 The maximum age limit : 35 years
Note : The maximum age limit shall not be applicable for officers who hold pensionable posts in public service
and are qualified under 7.2.2.2
7.2.4 Method of recruitment on the results of a written test
A number of candidates equivalent to the number of recruitments expected to be made on the order of the merit
determined on the aggregate of marks secured at the examination by the candidates out of those who have
passed all the subjects of the written examination shall be called for a general interview and the candidates
who become qualified at the interview shall be recruited.
7.2.4.1 W ritten test
Subjects Maximum marks Pass mark
Intelligent test 100 40
General Knowledge 100 40
(Refer Appendix 2)
7.2.4.1.1Conducting Authority : Commissioner General of Examinations
7.2.4.2 Professional test : Not applicable
7.2.4.3 Structured interview : Not applicable
7.2.4.4 General interview : Verification of qualifications and testing the physical fitness
7.2.4.4.1Appointing authority of the general interview board : Public Service Commission.
7.2.5 Method of calling applications : Applications shall be called by publishing a notice in the government Gazette
or publishing public notices or notices in the web  site.
7.3 Recruitment under limited stream
7.3.1 Recruitment Grade : Grade III of Sri Lanka Architects' Service
7.3.2 Qualifications :
7.3.2.1 Educational/Professional Qualification and Experience :
I. Development Assistants who have possessed a Science Degree on Built Environment from a
university recognized by the University Grants Commission with permanent and satisfactory
service period of five (05) years' in the Public Service.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2014
II. The officers who have passed Part I of standard course of Sri Lanka Institute of Architects with 10
years in public service including satisfactory service of immediately preceding 5 years.
and
Draftsmen in Special Class of Sri Lanka Technological Service who possess a satisfactory service
of 5 years immediately preceding the date of promotion.
7.3.2.2 Physical fitness : Shall have the physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of the island and to
perform the duties of the post
7.3.2.3 Other : I. Shall be of an excellent character.
II. Shall have completed an active and satisfactory service of five (05) years immediately
preceding the date of promotion.
III. Shall have sat the Limited Competitive Examination of Sri Lanka Architects' Service for
not more than two sittings.
7.3.3 Method of Recruitment : on the results of a written examination and a structured interview.
A number of candidates twice as the number of recruitments expected to be made on the order of the merit
determined on the marks secured by the candidates who have passed the written examination and possessed
the relevant qualifications shall be called for the structured interview. Recruitments shall be made on the order
of the total marks which will be determined aggregating the marks allocated at the structured interview with
the marks at the written examination.
7.3.3.1 W ritten test
Subjects Maximum marks Pass mark
Subjected related knowledge on Architecture 100 40
General paper 100 40
(Refer Appendix 3)
7.3.3.1.1Conducting Authority : Commissioner General of Examinations
7.3.3.2 Professional test : Not applicable
7.3.3.3 Structured interview : Candidate shall be interviewed by a structured interview board
Main fields to which marks are allocated Maximum marks Pass mark
1. Additional educational qualifications 20 Not applicable
2. Additional professional qualifications 20
3. Professional experience 55
4. Merit proved at the interview 05
Total marks 100

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2014
7.3.3.3.1Appointing authority of the structured interview board : Public Service Commission
7.3.3.4 General interview : Not applicable
7.3.4 Method calling applications : Applications shall be called by publishing notifications in the government
Gazette or publishing public notices or notices in the web site.
7.4 Recruitment on merit : Not applicable
08. Efficiency bar examination
8.1
Efficiency Bar At what point the limit for Nature of the Efficiency Bar
passing the Efficiency Bar Written/Professional/Certificate
expires (number of years) courses/other
1st Efficiency Bar After 03 years of the date of “Appendix 4”
recruitment to Grade III
2nd Efficiency Bar After 03 years from the “Appendix 4”
date of promotion to Grade II
3rd Efficiency Bar After 05 years from the “Appendix 4”
date of promotion to Grade I
8.2 Time frame of the efficiency bar examination : The first efficiency bar examination shall be conducted twice
every year
8.3 Authority for conducting efficiency bar examinations :
1. 1st Efficiency Bar - By Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration on the recommendations of
the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
2. 2nd Efficiency Bar - Possession of full professional qualifications from the Sri Lanka Institute of Architects
(This shall be obtained by the officer)
3. 3rd Efficiency Bar - Maintaing full professional qualifications (This shall be maintained  by the officer)
09. Language Proficiency
Language Proficiency to be satisfied
Official Language
Other Official Language
Link Language
Officers who have been appointed to service in a language other than
any official language shall acquire proficiency in one of the official
languages before confirmation in the post
Proficiency at the relevant level shall be acquired as per Public
Administration Circular 01/2014
Shall have obtained a credit pass for English as a subject at G . C. E.
Ordinary Level before confirmation in service. (Not as an optional
subject)

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2014
10. Grade Promotion
10.1 Promotion from Grade III to Grade II in service.
10.1.1 On average performance
10.1.1.1 Qualifications to be satisfied
(i) Shall have been confirmed in the post
(ii) Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for at least ten (10) years
in Grade III of the service category and earned ten (10) salary increments.
(iii) Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above during the period of ten (10)
years immediately preceding the date of promotion as per the approved performance
appraisal procedure.
(iv) Shall have completed a satisfactory service of five (05) years immediately preceding the
date of promotion.
(v) Shall have obtained the required level of proficiency in Link Language or being exempted
from the same.
(vi) Shall have obtained the proficiency in other language at the relevant level.
(vii) Shall have passed the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination on due date.
10.1.1.2 Method of Promotion
When officers who have satisfied the qualifications make a request to the Appointing Authority
as per the specimen form, promotion to Grade II shall be made by the Appointing Authority ofter
verification of qualifications to be effective from the qualifying date.
10.2 Promotion from Grade II to Grade I
10.2.1 Qualifications to be satisfied
(i) Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for seven (07) years in Grade II
of the service category and earned seven (07) salary increments.
(ii) Shall have proved a satisfactory period of service within five (05) years immediately preceding the
date of promotion.
(iii) Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above during the period of seven (07)
years immediately preceding the date of promotion as per the approved performance appraisal
procedure.
(iv) Shall have obtained full professional qualification and have maintained the same status continuously
(v) Shall have possessed a Post Graduate degree in the field of Architecture.
10.2.1.1 Method of Promotion.
When officers who have satisfied the qualifications make a request to the Appointing
Authority as per the specimen form, promotion to Grade I shall be made by the Appointing
Authority after verification of qualifications to be effective from the qualifying date.
6—G 20130

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2014
10.3 Promotion from Grade I to Special Grade
10.3.1 Qualifications to be satisfied :
(i) Shall have possessed a Post Graduate degree in the field of Architecture
(ii) Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for five (05) years in Grade I of
the executive officer category as at the date of qualifying for promotion and earned five (05) salary
increments after promotion to Grade 1.
(iii) Shall have completed an active period of service of not less than 18 years in the Executive Grade
relevant to the service category/posts in which the candidate becomes qualified on the date for
qualifying for promotions.
(iv) Shall have proved the annual performance at the satisfactory level or above during the period of
five (05) years immediately preceding the date of qualifying for promotion.
(v) Shall have obtained the honorary fellow membership and maintained the status with full
professional qualifications continuously.
(vi) Shall have possessed a satisfactory service during the five (05) years immediately preceing the
date of qualifying for promotion and not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment.
10.3.1.1 Method of promotion
I. Appointments to relevant Grade shall be made on the results of a structured interview
after interviewing officers by an interview board according to the marking scheme
approved by the Public Service Commission.
II. Seniority and merit shall be considered at the interviews
III. The officers who have obtained the highest marks shall be recruited to the relevant
service category by the Appointing Authority as per the existing vacancies.
11. Recruitment of posts
11.1  Qualifications
Posts Qualifications
Posts in Grade II of Sri Lanka
Architects' Service
Posts in Grade I of Sri Lanka
Architects' Service
Posts in Special Grade of Sri Lanka
Architects' Service
Shall be an officer in Grade II or a higher Grade of Sri Lanka
Architects' Service
Shall be an officer in Grade I of the service.
Shall be an officer Special Grade of the service.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2014
11.2 Method of selection
(a) Posts in Grade II of Sri Lanka Architects' Service
(b) Posts in Grade I of Sri Lanka Architects' Service
(c) Posts in Special Grade of Sri Lanka Architects' Service
Structured interview mentioned in (b) and (c) above
Main fields to which marks Maximum marks Minimum marks considered
are allocated for selection
1. Experience in service 55 Not relevant
2. Merit 40
3. Merit proved at the interview 05
Total marks 100
12. Conditions applicable to the service :
12.1 Conditions for confirmation in service
(a) An officer appointed to Grade III of  Sri Lanka Architects' Service by the open competitive examination
shall be subjected to a probation period of three (3) years. If the officer has passed the first efficiency
bar examination and acquired the required level of language proficiency and that the work and conduct
of the officer are satisfactory during the period of probation, he/ she shall be confirmed in service at the
end of the period of probation.
(b) An officer recruited to Grade III of the service by the limited competitive examination shall be subjected
to an acting period of one year. The appointment of the officer shall be confirmed at the end of the acting
period, if the officers' work and conduct during the period of acting are satisfactory.
12.2 Training and development
(a) An induction training of 3 months shall be provided.
(b) This shall be organized by Director (Architectural Services) and conducted by Sri Lanka Institute of
Development Administration.
Officers in Grade II of the service shall be
appointed to posts in Grade II
Officers who are selected by a structured
interview on seniority and merit out of the
officers in Grade I of the Service shall be
appointed to the posts in Grade I (Interview
board shall be appointed by the Public Service
Commission)
Officers who are selected by a structured
interview on seniority and merit out of the
officers in Special Grade of the service shall be
appointed to the posts in Special Grade.
(Interview board shall be appointed by the
Public Service Commission)

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2014
13. Definitions and Interpretations :
(i) The term “Service Minute” shall mean the Minute on the Sri Lanka Architects' Service.
(ii) The term “Effective Date” shall mean the date on which this minute comes in to effect.
(iii) “Service”  shall mean the Sri Lanka Architects' Service.
(iv) “Secretary” shall mean the Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the subject of  Public Administration.
(v) “The Sri Lanka Institute of Architects” shall mean the Sri Lanka Institute Architects which was established
under the Act, No. 01 of 1976.
(vi) “Full Professional Qualifications” shall mean the possession of associate membership of Sri Lanka Institute
of Architects passing the professional test of part III of the same institution and possession the registration
as a Chartered Architect and maintenance of such status.
(vii) “Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration” shall mean Sri Lanka Institute of Development
Administration which was established under Act No. 09 of 1982.
(viii) The term “Public Services Commission” or “P. S. C.” shall mean the Public Service Commission appointed as
per article 54 of the constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
(ix) “Period of Satisfactory Service” shall be defined as per Procedural Rule 186 of Public Services Commission.
(x) “Period of Active Service” shall mean the actual period served by the officer engaged in the duties assigned
to him and drawing the salary attached to his post. However, all the periods on No Pay other  than Maternity
Leave approved by the government shall not be counted for the period of active service.
14. Recruitments shall strictly be made to Grade III of the service. The number of recruitments shall be determined as per
the vacancies which reported as at 30th June of relevant year.
15. Provisions for absorption
All the officers who belong to Sri Lanka Architects' Service as at the effective date of new service minute shall be
absorbed in the following manner subjected to provisions in Section 04 of Chapter VII of the Establishment Code.
(a) Period of service shall be calculated based on the date of appointment to each post or grade. However, the date of
salary increments of the relevant officer shall not be changed due to this absorption and that shall be applied
without any change as the increment date existed before the absorption, Further, the officer shall not be placed on
the next higher salary step as per section 4.4, chapter VII of the Establishment Code due to becoming the salary step
received by the relevant officer corresponding to new salary step.
i. Absorption to Grade III of the service
Officers in Grade II of Class II of the service as at the effective date
ii. Absorption to Grade II of the service
Officers in Grade II of Class I of the service as at the effective date
iii. Absorption to Grade I of the service
(a) Officers in Class I of the service as at the effective date
(b) Officers who have been appointed to Grade one on supernumerary basis as at the effective date.
16. In addition to the requirements mentioned in this minute, the officers shall acquire all the levels of proficiency and
skills as determined by the government from time to time.
17. General conditions in procedural rules published by the Public Service Commission and the provisions of
Establishment Code shall be applicable for each appointment.
18. Matters not provided for
Decisions on matters outside the provisions of this minute shall be made by the administrative authority who is
authorized either by Public Service Commission or Cabinet of Ministers.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2014
19. Other
In case of an inconsistency among the matters in Sinhala, Tamil and English versions, the Sinhala version shall come
into force.
Appendix   I
GRADE I, II   AND   III   OF   SRI   LANKA   ARCHITECTS'   SERVICE
Ministry/ Post Grade Approved
Department/Provincial number
Council
Ministry of Education Architect Grade II/III 03
Ministry of Building Additional Director Special Grade 01
(Consultancy Services) Grade I
Director (Architecture) Grade I 01
Senior Architect Grade II/III 02
Architect 10
Department of Archeology Director (Architectural Grade I 01
Conservation) Grade II/III
D. D. /A. D. (Architectural 03
Conservation)
Department of National Physical Director (Architecture) Grade I 01
Planning D. D. (Architect)/A. D. Grade II/III 02
Department of Wildlife Conservation D. D. /A. D. (Architecture) Grade II/III 01
Department of National Botanic Landscape Architect Grade II/III 01
Gardens
Western Provincial Council Architect Grade II/III 13
Southern Provincial Council Architect Grade II/III 03
North Western Provincial Council Architect Grade II/III 03
North Central Provincial Council Architect Grade II/III 02
Central Provincial Council Architect Grade II/III 03
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council Architect Grade II/III 02
Uva Provincial Council Architect Grade II/III 02
Northern Provincial Council Architect Grade II/III 01
Eastern Provincial Council Architect Grade II/III 01
7—G 20130

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2014
(As per the Schedule of Posts  of Sri Lanka Architects' Service approved by the Department of Management
Services as at 30.06.2013)
Appendix  2
OPEN   COMPETITIVE   EXAMINATION   FOR   RECRUITMENT  TO   SRI   LANKA   ARCHITECTS'   SERVICE
01. Scheme of examination and syllabus - This examination consists of the following question papers.
No. Subjects Maximum marks Pass marks Duration Hours
01. Intelligence test 100 40 01
02. General Knowledge 100 40 02
02. Scheme of examination - Medium of examination
(a) This examination shall be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages.
(b) Candidates are allowed got sit the examination in any language medium on their preference.
Note (i) All the candidates shall sit for the 02 question papers prescribed for this examination.
(ii) Candidates are allowed to sit for all the question papers of this examination strictly in one language
medium.
(iii) Candidates are not allowed to change the language medium stated in the application.
(iv) Number of recruitments made at a time shall be determined by the Public Service Commission.
03. Syllabus
Subject No. 01 - Intelligence test
This paper shall be designed to test the candidate's ability of critical reasoning, analytical power on issues, ability
of decision making, ability of making judgements
Subject No. 02 - General knowledge
This question paper shall be designed to test the understanding of the candidate on political, social, cultural
economic environment of Sri Lanka, matters which are important in national and international aspects and national
and international, scientific and technical development. This question paper shall consist of two parts. The first part
shall consist of questions for short answers and 25 marks shall be allocated. The second part shall consist of
questions in semi structured nature. For this part, the candidate shall answer 5 out of 8 questions. 75 marks shall be
allocated for this part.

<!-- page 13 -->

13AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2014
Appendix  3
LIMITED  COMPETITIVE   EXAMINATION   FOR   RECRUITMENT  TO  SRI  LANKA   ARCHITECTS'  SERVICE.
01. Scheme of examination and syllabus - This examination shall consist of the following question papers.
Number Subjects Maximum Pass marks Duration
marks hours
01 Subjected related knowledge 100 40 03
on Architecture
02 General paper 100 40 02
02. Scheme of examination - Medium of examination
(a) This examination is conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages.
(b) Candidates are allowed to sit the examination in language medium of their choice
      Note:
(i) All the candidates shall sit for the 02 question papers prescribed for this examination
(ii) Candidates are allowed to sit for all the question papers of this examination strictly in one language
medium.
(iii) Candidates are not allowed to change the language medium stated in the application.
(iv) Number of recruitments made at a time shall be determined by the Public Service Commission.
03. Syllabus
Subject No. 01 - Subject related knowledge on Architecture
This question paper shall be prepared in the following manner.
Duration is three hours
Candidates are required to answer 02 compulsory question from part I and II (20 for each question) and 04 out of the
06 questions from other 3 parts. (15 marks for each question)
Pass mark is 40%
Part I - Practical role of an architect in public service
1. Difference of the practice of Architecture between public and private sector
2. Scope, advantages and disadvantages of the role of Architect.
3. Responsibilities towards general public
4. Responsibilities towards organizations

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2014
Part II - 1. Basic studies and investigations
2. Conceptual design and approach to basic estimates.
3. Planning and formulating procedures and obtaining necessary approvals and clarifications.
4. The set of plans to be prepared for obtaining approval from relevant local government institutions.
5. Comprehensive field plans and specifications on Architecture.
6. Preparation of detailed data with the coordination of other consultants (Structural and service plans)
Part III - Tasks of the organization and operational medium
1. Vision and mission of the organization
2. Role and task of the organization
3. Organization structure
4. Duties, responsibilities and interrelationship of each division in the performance of the tasks of the organization.
5. Links with other public institutions.
Part IV - Contribution of Architects to the project within the preconstruction period of the project.
1. Bid documents and estimate of institutions
2. Procurement guidelines
3. Pre tender meetings and tender activities
4. Technical evaluation and the types of tender boards
5. Agreements and awarding contracts
Part V - Contribution of the Architects during the implementation process and post contract period of the project.
1. Progress review meetings at the site
2. Quality control procedures
3. Maintaining the coordination with construction groups
4. Estimating the built environment and activities on post analysis
5. Maintenance registers
Subject No. 02 - General paper
This question paper shall be limited for 02 hours. It shall consist of two parts.
Part I : This shall consist of question in connection to the scientific matters with wide scope covering all subjects.

<!-- page 15 -->

15AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2014
Part II : This shall consist of questions in connection to other general subjects such as economic, political, cultural
and art fields
Structure of the question paper : Questions of above papers shall be multiple choice, semi-structured nature or
combination of them.
Appendix    4
SYLLABUS  OF   THE   EFFICIENCY   BAR  EXAMINA TION   MENTIONED   IN   PARA, 8   FOR   THE   OFFICERS
WHO  ARE   APPOINTED TO GRADE   III OF SRI LANKA   ARCHITECTS'   SERVICE
First Efficiency Bar Examination.
Syllabus of the first Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers who are appointed to Grade III of Sri Lanka Architects' Service
1. The first Efficiency Bar Examination shall consist of the following subjects.
I. Financial Systems
II. Administration
III. Departmental  regulations
2. An officer is allowed to sit for all the subjects at one or different sittings.
3. The duration of each question paper is three hours and the maximum mark is 100.
4. Scheme of examination.
I. Finance management and procurement process in public sector
One question paper consisting of the following
(a) Financial control in Sri Lanka
* Constitutional provisions relevant to public finance management
* Control of the Parliament over public finance
* Definition of funds
* Consolidated fund and its function
* Objective and methodologies of appropriation
* Contingent fund
* Other funds and their function.
* State revenue
* Powers and role of the Finance Minister
* Powers and role of the General Treasury
* Warrant and imprest authority
* Powers and role of the Auditor General
* Committee on Public Accounts (COPA)
* Committee on Public Enterprises (COPE)
(b) Appointment of Accounting Officers, Chief Accounting Officers and Accounting Officers on State
revenue, their powers and role/accountability and the nature of their responsibilities.
(c) Internal auditing

<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2014
(d) Planning and management of public expenditure
* Identifying the objectives and functions of organizations
* Identifying public policies, objectives, targets and programmes
* Planning of development projects and programmes and prioritizing the evaluation
* Preparation of annual estimate on income and expenditure and taking final decisions.
(e) Making changes in approved estimates
* Implementation of Weeramon procedure
* Management of cadre and salaries of public sector
* Total cost estimates and making revisions to he same
* Supplementary estimates
(f) Losses and omissions of state properties
(g) Various accounting activities
(h) Entrusting tasks for financial management
(i) Custody of public finance and procedure of bank accounts
(j) Government procurement process
* Code of procurement procedure of government
* Procurement guidelines of the government
Note - Candidate shall secure marks of 40%
II. Administration - One question paper based on the following
(a) Chapters of the Establishment Code
I, II, III, V , VI, VII, IX, XI, XXIII, XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII
and XLVIII
(b) Procedural rules of Public Service Commission published in Gazette extraordinary No. 30/1589 dated
20.02.2009
Note - candidate shall secure marks of 40%
III. Departmental regulations.
It is difficult to conduct a common test for all the officers in this service, since the departmental regulations
may be varied. Therefore, syllabus for this subject shall be prepared and all the Heads of Departments shall
take action to conduct this test at least once a year on the approval of the Secretary of the relevant Ministry.

<!-- page 17 -->

17AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2014
Second Efficiency Bar Examination.
The full professional qualifications in the relevant filed shall be possessed within three years from the date of
promotion to Grade II of Sri Lanka Architects' Service. The membership of the Sri Lanka Institute of Architects
shall be obtained. (The officers who possess the full professional qualifications at the time of recruitment to
service shall maintain the same status continuously)
Third Efficiency Bar Examination
The status of full professional qualifications shall be maintained continuously.
09-408
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.