

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2219$37 - 2021 ud¾;= ui 17 jeks nodod - 2021'03'17
No. 2219/37  -  wedNesday,  march 17,  2021
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1a- G 33965 - 75 (03/2021) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
L.d.B. 22/1971 (ii).
THE  COCONuT  DEvELOPmENT  ACT,  No.  46  OF  1971
Order under Section 2
By virtue of the powers vested in me by section 2 of the coconut development act, No. 46 of 1971, I, ramesh Pathirana, 
minister of Plantations, do by this Order -
 (a) specify the functions set out in the schedule I hereto, shall be the functions to which this Order relates;
 (b) declare that a Board shall be established to perform the functions set out in the schedule I hereto;
 (c) assign “Kithul development Board” as the corporate name to the Board;
 (d) specify the initial capital of the Board shall be Fifty million rupees;
 (e) specify special powers set out in schedule II, shall be the special powers of the Board;
 (f)  state that No. 23/1, Kandawatte road, Pelawatte, Battaramulla shall be the principal place of business of the Board;
 (g)	 fix	the	number	of	members	of	the	Board,	shall	be	seven;
 (h)	 appoint	 the	members	including	the	Chairman	specified	in	the	Schedule	III	hereto	as	the	members	and	the	Chairman	
of the Board; and
 (i)	 determine	that	five	members	shall	be	the	quorum	for	any	meeting	of	the	Board.
 Ramesh PathiRana,
 minister of Plantations.
Battaramulla,
16th march, 2021.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'17
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.03.2021
2a
scheduLe I
Functions shall be-
 1. the development and assistance in the development of the productivity of land in kithul plantations;
 2. the cultivation and assistance in and promotion and regulation of the cultivation of land with 
kithul;
	 3.	 the	identification	of	land	in	kithul	plantations	suitable	for	inter	planting	with	other	crops	including	
pasture and the promotion, direction, carrying out and assistance in the carrying out of inter planting 
programmes on such land;
 4. the promotion and regulation of, assistance to, and engagement in, animal husbandry on land in 
kithul plantations;
	 5.	 the	specification,	popularization,	promotion	and	direction	of	proper	cultivation	practices	in	respect	
of the growing of kithul and other crops in kithul plantations;
 6. the manufacture, and assistance in and promotion and regulation of the manufacture, of kithul 
products;
	 7.	 the	promotion	of	new	techniques	in	the	processing	of	kithul	products;
	 8.	 the	promotion	and	direction	of	the	modernization,	and	assistance	in	increasing	the	efficiency,	of	
establishments manufacturing kithul products;
	 9.	 the	prescription	and	maintenance	of	standards	of	quality	of	kithul	products	manufactured	in	or	
exported	from	Sri	Lanka;
  10. the purchase and sale, and the regulation of the purchase and sale, of kithul products, and the 
formulation and implementation, or assistance in the formulation and implementation, of minimum 
and	maximum	price	schemes	and	price	stabilization	schemes	for	kithul	products	in	general,	and	
for small holders’ kithul products in particular;
	 	 11.	 the	export	and	import,	and	the	regulation	of	the	export	and	import	and	of	the	export	price	and	
import price, of kithul products;
  12. the maintenance, promotion and creation of demand for kithul products, both within and outside 
Sri	Lanka,	by	advertising,	by	initiating,	financing,	supporting	and	supervising	promotional	work,	
by	establishing,	managing,	supervising	and	supporting	sales	rooms	and	agencies,	by	organizing,	
assisting	and	participating	in,	exhibitions	and	fairs,	and	by	any	other	means	necessary	for	the	
purpose;
 
  13. the conducting of market research into all aspects of the transport and marketing of kithul products 
within and outside sri Lanka;
	 	 14.	 the	conducting	and	furthering	of	scientific	research	in	respect	of,	the	growth	and	cultivation	of	kithul	
palms, the growing of other crops and the engagement in animal husbandry in kithul plantations 
and the prevention and cure of diseases and pests;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'17
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.03.2021
3a
  15. the establishment	and	maintenance	of	research	institutes,	experimental	stations	and	nurseries;
	 	 16.	 the	conducting	and	furthering	of	scientific	research	in	connection	with	the	processing	and	utilization	
of kithul products;
  17. the establishment and maintenance of pilot plants for the processing of kithul products, and the 
fabrication	of	experimental	processing	equipment;
	 	 18.	 the	training	of	advisory	and	extension	workers	to	assist	the	kithul	industry;
  19. the guiding and advising of the kithul industry on all matters of a technical nature;
  20. the promotion of co-operative and collective forms of management and ownership of kithul 
plantations and of establishments manufacturing or trading in kithul products.
scheduLe II
special Powers shall be -
 1. to register-
 (a) kithul plantations and the proprietors of such plantations,
 (b) manufacturers of kithul products,
 (c) auctioneers and brokers engaged in the purchase and sale of kithul products, and
 (d) dealers in and shippers of kithul products;
	 2.	 to	determine	the	qualifications,	terms	and	conditions,	procedure	and	annual	fees	payable	for	such	
registration, and in its discretion to remove from or restore to the register any name;
	 3.	 to	engage	in,	regulate,	control,	supervise,	direct,	manage	and	inspect	the	cultivation	and	utilization	
of land in kithul plantations and the cultivation of land with kithul;
 4. to engage in, regulate, control, supervise, direct, manage and inspect the manufacture, packing, 
storing, transport and sale of kithul products;
	 5.	 to	inspect,	supervise,	regulate	and	control,	the	factories,	stores,	yards,	buildings,	premises,	equipment	
and machinery used or to be used for the manufacture, packing, or storing, of kithul products;
 6. to engage in, regulate, control, supervise, direct, manage and inspect the purchase, sale, transport, 
storing,	import	and	export	of	kithul	products;
 7. to establish sales rooms for the purchase and sale of kithul products and to determine the procedure 
at such sales rooms, and the procedure for the delivery and receipt of and payment for any product 
sold at the sales rooms; and
	 8.	 to	issue	licences	for	the	export	of	kithul	products,	and	to	determine	the	qualifications,	terms	and	
conditions and procedure for the issue of such licences, and in its discretion to refuse to issue a 
licence, or cancel a licence already issued, to any person.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'17
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.03.2021
4a
scheduLe III
members of the Board shall be -
 1. mr. Kanugala wattage Gihan Priyanath Perera who shall be the chairman of the Board; and
 2. the following members-
 (a) three ex-officio members, namely-
	 (i)	 an	officer	not	below	the	rank	of	a	Senior	Assistant	Secretary	of	the	Ministry	of	the	
minister assigned the subject of Kithul under article 44 or 45 of the c onstitution 
nominated by that minister;
	 (ii)	 an	officer	not	below	the	rank	of	a	Senior	Assistant	Secretary	of	the	Ministry	of	the	
minister assigned the subject of Finance under article 44 or 45 of the constitution 
nominated by that minister;
	 (iii)	 an	officer	not	below	the	rank	of	a	Director	of	the	Industrial	Technology	Institute	
established	by	the	Science	and	Technology	Development	Act,	No.	11	of	1994,	nominated	
by	the	Industrial	Technology	Institute;	and
 (b) three persons appointed by the minister assigned the subject of Kithul under article 44 or 45 
of the constitution.
04-42
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.