

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2219$35 - 2021 ud¾;= ui 16 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2021'03'16
No. 2219/35  -  Tuesday,  march 16,  2021
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1a- PG 5348- 175 (03/2021) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
L.d.-B 21/78 (xvi)(a).
THE  UNIVERSITIES  ACT,  No.  16  OF  1978
ordiNaNce made by the university Grants commission under section 140, read with section 18, of the university act, 
No. 16 of 1978.
 secretary, 
 university Grants commission.
colombo, 
16th march, 2021.
Ordinance
1. This ordinance may be cited as the institute of human resource advancement ordinance, No. 01 of 2021.
2. (1) There shall be established under the provisions thereof an institute to be known as the institute of human 
resource advancement (hereinafter referred to as the “institute”).
(2) The institute shall be attached to the university of colombo, sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “university”).
3. subject to the provisions of the act and of any appropriate instrument, and the powers, duties and functions of 
the commission, the institute shall have power to -

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'16
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.03.2021
2a
( ) admit students;
(b) (i)  provide instruction and training in such approved branches of learning as may be approved by the 
commission upon the recommendation of the institute and the university;
 (ii) engage in research and development in any branch of human resource advancement;
 (iii) provide consultancy in any branch of human resource advancement.
(c) determine, where necessary, with the approval of the council of the university and the concurrence of 
the Commission, the degrees, diplomas, certificates and other academic distinctions to be awarded in the 
branches of learning of human resource advancement;
(d) conduct with the approval of the council of the university, examinations to ascertain the persons who 
have acquired proficiency in approved branches of learning and to recommend to the University persons, 
who, having passed such examinations and having satisfied such other conditions as the University may 
prescribe by By-laws in consultation with the institute, are eligible for the award of degrees, diplomas, 
certificates and other academic distinctions of the University;
(e) co-operate, by way of exchange of teachers, students and scholars or otherwise, with universities or 
institutions in sri Lanka or abroad, having objects similar to those of the institute;
(f) recognize examinations passed and the periods of learning or study pursued by persons seeking admission to, 
or by students of the institute at universities and places of learning of university level, as being equivalent to 
such examinations and periods of learning or study in the institute or such part thereof, as may be prescribed 
by By-law, and to withdraw such recognition at any time;
(g) erect, equip, and maintain for the purpose of the institute, libraries, laboratories and other buildings for 
instructional, training, research and development and consultancy purposes;
(h) recommend to the university, the institution, abolition or suspension of senior Professorships, Professorships, 
associate professorships, senior Lectureships, Lectureships and other posts including administrative posts 
as may be required for the purposes of the institute;
(i) institute and award fellowships, scholarships, exhibitions, bursaries, medals and other prizes;
(j) make arrangements for conducting courses or parts of courses within the institute and in other higher 
educational institutions in accordance with any By-law;  
(k) demand and receive fees in accordance with any rule; and
(l) do all such other acts and things, which are incidental or consequential to the powers specified above as 
may be required in order to further the objects of the institute.
4. The Officers of the Institute shall be -
 (i) the director; and
 (ii) the holder of any other post declared by Ordinance to be a post, the holder of which is an Officer for the 
purpose of this paragraph.
5. (1) The first Director shall be appointed by the Council of the University. Every subsequent Director shall be 
appointed by the commission but from a panel of three persons recommended by the Board of management of the institute:
Provided that, no person shall be appointed as the director of the institute for more than two consecutive terms.
(2) Where a member of the staff of a higher educational institution is appointed as the director, such institution 
shall release such member of the staff to accept the post of director.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'16
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.03.2021
3a
(3) The director shall, unless he vacates office earlier or is removed from office under sub-ordinance (4), hold office 
for a period of three years reckoned from the date of his appointment or until he completes his sixty-fifth year, whichever 
occurs earlier.
(4) The Director may be removed from office by the Council of the University on a vote of censure passed by not 
less than two-thirds of the total membership of the Board of management, at a special meeting convened for that purpose. 
The members present at such special meeting shall elect from among themselves a person, other than the director, to preside 
at such special meeting.
(5) The Director who resigns or is removed from office may, if he was a member of the staff of a Higher Educational 
institution immediately prior to his appointment as the director, revert to his substantive post in such higher educational 
Institution, if he has not completed his sixty-fifth year.
(6) if the director, by reason of leave, illness, absence from sri Lanka, or due to any other cause, is temporarily 
unable to perform the duties of his office, the Vice-Chancellor of the University shall appoint a member from among the 
members of the Board of Management as specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of ordinance 8.
(7) If any vacancy occurs in the office of the Director, the Vice-Chancellor of the University shall, appoint a member 
from among the members of the Board of Management as specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of ordinance 8 until a permanent 
appointment is made under sub-ordinance (1).
6. (1) The Director shall be a full time officer of the Institute, and shall be the academic and administrative Head 
thereof. He shall be an-ex-officio member and Chairman of the Board of Management, Academic Coordinating Committee 
and an ex-officio member of each Board of Study. He shall be entitled to be present and speak at any meeting of any other 
authority or body of the institute but shall not be entitled to vote at any such meetings unless he is a member of such authority 
or body.
(2) The director shall, in accordance with such direction as may, from time to time, be issued to him in that regard 
by the council of the university ensure that the provisions of the act and of any appropriate instrument in so far as they 
relate to the institute, are duly observed and he shall have and may exercise all such powers as he may deem necessary for 
the purpose.
(3) The director shall give effect, or ensure that effect is given to the decisions of the Board of management.
(4) The Director shall be the Accounting Officer of the Institute.
(5) The director shall be responsible for the maintenance of discipline within the institute. The director may 
seek directions from the council in respect of maintenance of the discipline of the students, when and where appropriate. 
The director shall also maintain the discipline of teachers and other employees with the concurrence of the council of the 
university.
7. The authorities of the institute shall be -
 (i) the Board of management;
 (ii) the academic coordinating committee;
 (iii) the Board or Boards of study; and
 (iv) such other bodies as may be prescribed by ordinance to be such authorities.
8. The Board of management shall be the executive and administrative authority of the institute and shall consist of-
(a) the director;
(b) three deans of the university from among the Faculties of arts, e ducation, management and science 
nominated by the council of the university;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'16
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.03.2021
4a
(c) two members from the academic coordinating committee nominated by that committee one of whom 
shall be the chairperson of any Board of study. The other shall be a member nominated by the senate of 
the university to the academic coordinating committee.
(d) seven members appointed by the commission from among persons who have rendered distinguished 
service in educational, professional, commercial, industrial, scientific or administrative spheres. One of 
such members shall be appointed by the commission from the nomination sent to it by the secretary to the 
ministry assigned the subject of Finance.
9. (1) The director shall be the chairperson of the Board of management who shall preside at all meetings of the 
Board of management. if the director is unable to preside at a meeting, the members present shall elect any member present 
to preside at such meeting.
(2) Any appointed or nominated member shall, unless he vacates office earlier, hold office for a term of three years 
reckoned from the date of his appointment and shall, unless removed from office, be eligible for re-appointment:
Provided that, if any appointed or nominated member vacated his office prior to the expiry of his term, his successor 
shall, unless, he vacates his office earlier, hold office for the unexpired portion of the term of office of his predecessor.
(3) Any appointed or nominated member of the Board of Management may resign his/her office by written 
communication addressed to the chairperson of the commission or the director as the case may be.
(4) any appointed or nominated member of the Board of management who without leave of absence fails to attend 
three consecutive meetings of the Board of Management, shall be deemed to have vacated his office as a member of the 
Board of Management and the Commission shall appoint a person to fill such vacancy from among the members specified 
in paragraph (d) of ordinance 8.
(5) The Board of Management may co-opt to the Board of Management, any person for specific purpose and 
for a specified period. Such person shall not have the right to stand for election or to vote at any meeting of the Board of 
management.
(6) The members of the Board of management shall be paid such remuneration or allowances as the minister shall 
in consultation with the minister assigned the subject of Finance, determine.
(7) The quorum for a meeting of the Board of management shall be one-third of its total membership.
(8) The Board of management shall meet whenever necessary, so however it shall meet not less than eight occasions 
in each year.
(9) The director shall, whenever he thinks necessary or within one week upon the receipt by him of a written 
request from not less than one-third of the total membership of the Board of management, convene a special meeting of the 
Board of management.
10. (1) subject to the provisions of the act, this ordinance and any appropriate instrument, the Board of management 
shall have the control and general direction of instruction, education, examinations, training, research and development and 
consultancy in the institute.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred upon it by sub -ordinance (1), the Board of 
management shall exercise, perform and discharge the following powers, duties and functions: -
(a) to hold, control and administer the property and funds of the institute;

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'16
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.03.2021
5a
(b) to regulate and determine all matters concerning the institute in accordance with the provisions of the 
act and of any appropriate instrument;
(c) to administer any funds placed at the disposal of the Institute for any specific purpose;
(d) to receive and accept with the concurrence of the commission, bequests, donations and grants to the 
institute;
(e) to consider the annual report and the annual accounts of the institute and to submit such report and such 
accounts to the council of the university and the commission;
(f) to prepare the annual financial estimates of the Institute and upon the approval of the same to submit 
such estimates to the council of the university and the commission;
(g) request and receive fees for conducting courses of study, consultancy services, research and development 
activities and public private partnership activities undertaken by the institute;
(h) to recommend to the senate in consultation with the academic coordinating committee, the degrees, 
diplomas, certificates and other academic distinctions which shall be awarded in the approved branches 
of learning, and the courses of study and training to be followed, the examinations to be passed and the 
other conditions to be satisfied by the students who wish to qualify for such degrees, diplomas, certificates 
and other academic distinctions;
(i) to draft, in consultation with the academic coordinating committee, By-laws relating to courses of 
study and examinations and to submit them to the senate of the university for enactment;
(j) to draft, after consideration of reports from the academic coordinating committee, regulations relating 
to courses of study and examinations and to submit them to the senate of the university for enactment;
(k) to draft rules for any matter in respect of which rules are authorized to be made, and to submit them to 
the senate or the council, as the case may be, of the university for enactment:
 Provided that, rules relating to academic matters, examinations and research shall be drafted in consultation 
with and consideration of reports from the academic coordinating committee.
(l) to provide the buildings, premises, furniture equipment and other material needed for the carrying out 
of the work of the institute;
(m) to recommend to the council of the university to suspend, dismiss or otherwise punish persons in the 
employment of the institute;
(n) to recommend to the council of the university such persons as are suitable for recognition as teachers 
and examiners of the institute;
(o) to recommend to the commission, after consideration of reports from the academic c oordinating 
committee and with the approval of the council -
 (i) the institution, abolition or suspension of senior Professorships, Professorships, associate 
Professorships, senior Lectureships, Lectureships and other posts including administrative as 
may be required for the purposes of the institute; and
 (ii) the qualification of teachers, officers and other employees to be appointed to the Institute;
 (iii) the scheme for the re-organization of Boards of study or organization of any new Board of study;
 (iv) the schemes and conditions of competition for fellowships, scholarships, exhibition, bursaries, 
medals and other prizes;
(p) to appoint such number of standing committees or ad hoc committees as it may deem necessary, to 
specify their terms of reference, to consider their reports and to approve such reports with or without 
modification, or to reject such reports;

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'16
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.03.2021
6a
(q) to determine in consultation with the academic coordinating committee and the concurrence of the 
council of the university and the commission, the requirements for the admission of students to courses 
of study;
(r) to invest any moneys belonging to the institute including any unapplied income as may be determined 
by the commission;
(s) to exercise all other powers of the institute, the exercise of which is not otherwise provided for in this 
ordinance or any other appropriate instrument:
 Provided that, the Board of management shall not pass any resolution relating to any academic matter 
unless the Academic Coordinating Committee has first been given an opportunity of recording and 
transmitting its opinion thereon to the Board of management:
 Provided further, any resolution so passed shall not be acted upon except with the concurrence of the 
council or the senate of the university.
 in this paragraph, “academic matter” means any matter which is subject to the control and general 
direction of the academic coordinating committee.
11. (1) There shall be an academic coordinating committee consisting of-
(a) the director who shall be the chairperson;
(b) two members of each Board of study of the institute nominated by each such Board from among the 
members of each such Board. one of the members so nominated shall be the chairperson of such 
Board;
(c) two members from among the members of the Board of management nominated by the Board 
of management of the institute. one of them shall be from among the members appointed by the 
commission under paragraph (d) of ordinance 8;
(d) two persons, preferably senior Professors, Professors or associate Professors, from the university 
nominated by the senate of the university; and
(e) two members elected from among the permanent teachers of the institute engaged in teaching.
(2) The chairperson of the academic coordinating committee shall be the director who shall preside at all meetings 
of the academic coordinating committee. if the director is unable to preside at a meeting, the members present shall elect 
any member present to preside at such meeting.
(3) Any nominated or elected member shall, unless he vacates office earlier, hold office for a term of three years 
reckoned from the date of his appointment or nomination, and shall, unless removed from office, be eligible for re-nomination 
or re-election:
Provided that, if any nominated or elected member vacates his office prior to the expiry of his term, his successor 
shall, unless he vacates his office earlier, hold office for the unexpired portion of the term of office of his predecessor.
(4) any nominated or elected member of the academic coordinating committee of the institute may resign his 
office by written request addressed to the Director.
(5) any nominated or elected member of the academic coordinating committee who without leave of absence 
fails to attend three consecutive meetings of the academic coordinating committee, shall be deemed to have vacated his 
office as a member of the Academic Coordinating Committee.
(6) The members of the academic coordinating committee shall be paid such remuneration or allowances determined 
by the Board of management.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'16
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.03.2021
7a
(7) The academic coordinating committee, may, with the concurrence of the Board of management, co-opt one 
or more than one person for a specific purpose and for a specified period, but any person so co-opted shall not have the right 
to stand for election or to vote at any meeting of such committee.
(8) The quorum for a meeting of the academic coordinating committee shall be one- third of its total membership. 
in the event of such one-third is an integer and fraction the next higher integer shall be the quorum.
(9) The academic coordinating committee shall meet whenever necessary, so however it shall meet not less than 
ten occasions in each year.
(10) The director shall, whenever he thinks necessary or within one week upon the receipt by him of a written 
request from not less than one-third of the total membership of the academic coordinating committee, convene a special 
meeting of the academic coordinating committee.
12. subject to the provisions of the act, this ordinance and any appropriate instrument, the academic coordinating 
committee shall have the following powers:-
(a) consider and report on any matter referred to it by the Board of management and any Board of study;
(b) present recommendations and reports to the Board of management being matters connected with the 
courses of study, teaching programmes, training programmes, research programmes or examinations;
(c) appoint committees, consisting of persons not being members of the academic coordinating committee, 
for the purpose of considering and reporting on academic matters;
(d) recommend to the Board of Management, persons who, having passed the examinations specified by By 
-laws in the approved branches of learning and having satisfied any other conditions, specified by By-laws 
are eligible for the award of degrees, diplomas, certificates and other academic distinctions in the branches 
of human resource advancement;
(e) recommend to the Board of management -
 (i) the eligibility for the admission of students to courses of study and examination;
 (ii) the persons who are suitable for recognition as teachers or examiners;
 (iii) to draft By-laws, regulations and rules relating to courses of study and examinations in approved 
branches of learning for its consideration;
 (iv) the scheme for the re-organization of Boards of study or organization of any new Boards of study;
 (v) the names of persons suitable for the award of fellowships, scholarships, exhibitions, bursaries, 
medals and other prizes:
  Provided that, any recommendation shall not be made to the Board of management without consulting 
the relevant Board of study;
(f) exercise any other powers which are incidental or consequential to the powers conferred on the academic 
coordinating committee the exercise of which is not otherwise provided for in this ordinance or any other 
appropriate instrument:
Provided that, any resolution in relation to any academic matter shall not be passed by the academic coordinating 
Committee unless the relevant Board of Study has first been given an opportunity of recording and transmitting its opinion 
thereon to The academic coordinating committee:
Provided further, any resolution so passed shall not be acted upon except with the concurrence of the council, the 
senate of the university and the Board of management of the institute, as the case may be.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'16
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.03.2021
8a
13. The institute shall establish a Board of study in respect of each branch of learning approved by the commission 
upon the recommendation of the academic coordinating committee, Board of management and the council of the university.
14. (1) each Board of study shall have a chairperson who shall be the administrative and academic head of that 
Board of study. he shall be appointed by the Board of management from among the permanent teachers of the institute 
engaged in teaching who shall also be a member of that Board of study.
(2) The chairperson of each Board of study shall, subject to the provisions of the act, this ordinance and any 
appropriate Instrument, hold office for a period of three years reckoned from the date of his appointment, and shall, unless 
removed from office, be eligible for re appointment.
(3) Where owing to leave of absence, illness or other cause, any chairperson is temporarily unable to perform the 
duties of his office for a period not exceeding three months, the Director shall appoint another teacher of the relevant Board 
of study to act in the post of chairperson for such period. Where however any chairperson retires or resigns, or is for any 
other reason is unable to perform the duties of his office for a period exceeding three months, the post of Chairperson shall 
be deemed to be vacant, and a new chairperson shall be appointed in accordance with sub-ordinance (1). The person so 
appointed shall hold office for the unexpired portion of the term of office of his predecessor.
15. (1) each Board of study shall consist of -
(a) the chairperson;
(b) the director; and
(c) such teachers and other staff of the relevant branch of learning, not exceeding five in number, recommended 
by the director with the concurrence of the Board of management and the academic coordinating 
committee of the institute appointed by the council of the university from among those imparting 
instruction in the institute in the relevant branch of learning.
(2) Any Board of Study, may with the concurrence of the Board of Management, co-opt any qualified person for 
a specific purpose and for a specified period, but any person so co -opted shall not have the right to stand for election or to 
vote at any meeting of such Board.
(3) The provisions of sub-ordinance (2) of ordinance 9 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in relation to each 
appointed member of any Board of study.
(4) each Board of study shall have a secretary who shall be elected by that Board from among its members under 
paragraph (c) of sub-ordinance (1).
(5) The quorum for a meeting of any Board of study shall be one-third of its total membership, excluding co-opted 
members, if any.
(6) each Board of study shall meet whenever necessary, so however it shall meet not less than ten occasions in 
each year.
16. subject to the provisions of the act, this ordinance and any appropriate instrument, each Board of study shall 
have the following power:-
(a) to consider and report on any matter referred to it by the academic coordinating committee;
(b) to present recommendations and reports to the academic coordinating committee on all matters connected 
with the courses of study, teaching programmes, and examinations in that branch of learning;
(c) to appoint committees, which may include persons other than members of the Board of study, for the purpose 
of considering and reporting on any special subject;

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'16
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.03.2021
9a
(d) to recommend to the academic coordinating committee, requirements for the admission of students to 
courses of study and examinations;
(e) to draft regulations relating to courses of study and examinations in that branch of learning and to submit 
them to the academic coordinating committee;
(f) to recommend to the academic coordinating committee persons who are suitable for recognition as teachers 
and examiners;
(g) to recommend to the academic coordinating committee the schemes and conditions of competitions for 
fellowships, scholarship, exhibitions, bursaries, medals and other prizes;
(h) to recommend to the academic coordinating committee the names of persons suitable for the award of 
fellowships, scholarships, exhibitions, bursaries, medals and other prizes; and
(i) to recommend to the academic coordinating committee -
 (i) schemes for the re-organization of existing Boards of study and the organization of any new Boards 
of study; and
 (ii) the assignment of branches of learning to the respective Boards of study;
17. (1) The Director shall have authority with the approval of the principal executive officer of any Higher 
educational institution where courses or parts of courses provided by the institute are conducted within such higher educational 
institution and with approval of the Board of management and the academic coordinating committee, appoint a coordinator 
from among the staff of such higher educational institution.
(2) The director shall, with the approval of the academic coordinating committee and the concurrence of the 
Board of management, appoint a co-coordinator for any course or a part of any course conducted within the institute from 
its teachers or teachers who are employed at the university of colombo and working at the institute as visiting lecturers.
(3) The co-coordinator shall be responsible for the organization and administration of the teaching programmes 
and examinations of the institute within the respective educational institution or the institute as the case may be.
(4) Each Coordinator shall hold office for a period of three years reckoned from the date of his appointment, and 
shall, unless removed from office, for poor performance reported in by-annual performance review made by the Director or 
for any other reason be eligible for re appointment.
(5) Where owing to leave of absence, illness, or other cause, any coordinator is temporarily unable to perform the 
duties for a period not exceeding one month, and where -
(a) such coordinator is appointed under sub-ordinance (1), the director shall on the approval of the principal 
executive officer of such Higher Educational Institution, appoint a coordinator from among the staff of 
such higher educational institution; or 
(b) such coordinator is appointed under sub-ordinance (2), the director shall on the approval of the academic 
coordinating committee with the concurrence of the Board of management appoint a coordinator from 
among the teachers of the institute or teachers who are employed at the university of colombo and working 
at the institute as visiting lecturers.
(6) Where any Co-coordinator retires or resigns, or is for any other reason unable to perform the duties of his office 
for a period exceeding one month, the post of co-coordinator shall be deemed to be vacant, an acting coordinator shall be 
appointed in accordance with sub  ordinance (1) or (2), as the case may be.
18. The financial year of the Institute shall be the Calendar year.
19. (1) The institute shall have a fund to be called the institute of human resource advancement Fund (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Fund”) into which shall be paid - 

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'16
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.03.2021
10a
(a) any fees to be paid to the institute in accordance with the provisions of any appropriate instrument;
(b) any income from endowments;
(c) any sum of moneys provided by Parliament and disbursed by the commission as grants for the purposes 
of the institute;
(d) all income generated through self-financed activities of the Institute; and
(e)  all other moneys belonging to the institute derived from whatever source.
(2) A summary of all sums of money except all income generated through self-financed activities of the Institute, 
paid into the Fund within the course of a particular month, classified under the appropriate heads of revenue, shall before the 
end of the ensuing month be submitted by the director to the commission for its information.
20. it shall be the duty of the director to -
(a) keep the accounts of the institute in such form and manner as may be prescribed by ordinance;
(b) receive all moneys paid into the Fund and to credit such moneys to the proper heads of accounts;
(c) make all authorized payments; and
(d) prepare for the Board of management such triennial estimates as are required by the commission and the 
annual financial appropriations of the ensuing year:
Provided that, any income derived from grants made for specific purposes or from endowments for specific objects, 
shall be separately accounted for in the accounts of the institute, and that no payment shall be made from such income for the 
general purposes of the institute or for any purpose or object other than that for which such grants or endowments were made.
21. (1) The institute shall prepare an annual statement of accounts and statistics relating to its activities in such 
form and manner and containing such particulars as the commission may, from time to time, specify.
(2) The books of accounts of the Institute shall be kept in the office of the Institute.
22. The provisions of Part Xiii of the act as are relevant to the auditing of the accounts of a higher educational 
institution shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in relation to the auditing of the accounts of the institute.
23. (1) The staff of the Institute shall consist of such officers, teachers and other employees as it may with the 
concurrence of the University and the approval of the Commission deem necessary for the efficient exercise, performance 
and discharge of the powers, duties and functions of the institute.
(2) The staff of the institute shall be provided on release by the university from its own staff, or be appointed by 
the commission or the council of the university, as the case may be, on the request of the director with the concurrence of 
the Board of management. The provisions of Part X of the act shall, mutatis mutandis, apply in relation to appointments to 
the staff of the institute.
(3) Where an officer, teacher or other employee of the University has been released for service to the Institute on 
a full-time basis, the institute shall pay him the salary and the allowances of his substantive post in the university. in any 
other case, the Institute may pay the officer, teacher or other employee, such allowance as it may determine in consultation 
with the council of the university and with the approval of the commission.
(4) The staff of the institute shall be subject to the direction and the disciplinary control of the director with the 
approval of the council of the university or the commission as the case may be.
24. if any question arises as to whether any person has been duly elected, appointed, nominated or co-opted or 
as to whether any person is entitled to be, a member of any authority or other body of the institute, such question shall be 
referred to the Commission, whose decision thereon shall be final.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'16
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.03.2021
11a
25. No act, resolution or proceeding of any authority or other body of the institute, shall be invalidated merely by 
reason of the existence of any vacancy among its members, or any defect in the appointment of such member.
26. in this ordinance -
“act” means the universities act, No. 16 of 1978;
“appropriate instrument” means any order, ordinance, By-law, regulation or rule made in accordance with the 
provisions of the act;
“approved branch of learning” means any branch of learning relevant to the education or training of advancement 
of human resource approved by the commission upon the recommendation of the institute and the university;
“Board” or “Board of management” means the Board of management established under the provisions of this 
ordinance;
“commission” means the university Grants commission established under the act;
“council” means the council of the university of colombo established under the act;
“higher educational institution” means a university, campus, open university, ' university college, centre for 
higher Learning or institute for higher Learning as established or deemed to be established under the act;
“principal executive officer” in relation to -
(a)  a University, means the Vice-Chancellor of that University;
(b) an Open University, means the Vice Chancellor of that Open University; and
(c)  a university college, means the director of that university college;
“senate” means the senate of the university of colombo as established under the act;
“teacher” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in the act.
27. any question regarding the interpretation of the ordinance shall be referred to the council of the university of 
Colombo whose decision shall be the final.
28. The Vice-Chancellor shall have authority, in consultation with the Director of the Institute, to take such action 
or give such direction, not inconsistent with the principles underlying the provisions of this ordinance, as appears to him to 
be necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing any difficulties that may arise in the interpretation of these provisions 
or in the administration of the institute or for which there is no provision in this ordinance.
29. The institute of Workers’ education ordinance, No.11 of 1979, published in Gazette extraordinary No.68/10 
of december 26,1979 and the institute of human resource advancement ordinance, No. 01 of 2020, published in Gazette 
Extraordinary No. 2213/10 of February 2, 2021 are hereby repealed without prejudice to anything previously done under 
the said ordinance.
04–38
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.