

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs.  6.75  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 11, 2005
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 7th February, 2005]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
NATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  BANK  OF
SRI LANKA   (CONSEQUENTIAL
PROVISIONS) ACT,  No.  1  OF  2005

<!-- page 2 -->

National Development Bank of Sri Lanka
(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 1 of 2005
1
Short title.
2 —H 022722 — 5,650 (08/2004)
[Certified on 7th February, 2005]
L. D. —O. 47/2003.
A N  ACT  TO  MAKE  PROVISIONS  CONSEQUENTIAL  TO  THE  REGISTRATION  OF
THE  NA TIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  BANK  OF  SRI LANKA  AS  A  PUBLIC
C OMPANY ; AND  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  MATTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR
INCIDENTAL  THERETO
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the National Development
Bank of Sri Lanka (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 1 of
2005.
2. The National Development Bank of Sri Lanka Act,
No. 2 of 1979 shall as from such date as may be specified by
the Minister by Order published in the Gzette (hereinafter
referred to as the “specified date”), be repealed. Such date
shall be a date which is not later than six months from the
date of the Certification of this Bill as an Act of Parliament by
the Speaker under Article 79 of the Constitution.
3. (1) The Minister may, at any time after the coming
into operation of this Act, forward to the Registrar of
Companies a Memorandum and Articles of Association duly
approved by the Monetary Board together with a direction to
such Registrar requiring him to register the National
Development Bank of Sri Lanka as a public company under
the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982, in such name as is
specified by the Minister in such direction.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in the
Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982, the Registrar of Companies
shall, on receipt of a direction under subsection (1)—
(a) issue a Certificate of Incorporation under subsection
(1) of section 15 of the aforesaid Act, in such name
as is specified in the direction under subsection (1) ;
and
Repeal of Act No.
2 of 1979.
Registration of
the National
Development
Bank of Sri Lanka
as a public
company.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 National Development Bank of Sri Lanka
(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 1 of 2005
(b) publish an Order in the Gazette declaring that from
the specified date a public company is incorporated
in the name specified in the direction under
subsection (1), (hereinafter referred to as “the
company”) to take over and carry on the business of
the National Development Bank of Sri Lanka as a
going concern.
4. With effect from the specified date, the business of
the National Development Bank of Sri Lanka established by
section 2 of the National Development Bank Act, No. 2 of
1979, shall vest absolutely in the company referred to in the
Order published under subsection (2) of section 3.
5. Upon the repeal of the National Development Bank
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 2 of 1979, as provided for in section 2 of
this Act—
(a) the share capital of the National Development Bank
of Sri Lanka as on the day immediately preceding
the specified date shall be deemed to be the share
capital of the company as at the specified date ;
(b) all shareholders of the National Development Bank
of Sri Lanka on the day immediately preceding the
specified date shall be deemed to be the shareholders
of the company as at the specified date and the shares
held by such shareholders in the company shall be
identical in number to that held by them in the Bank
on the day immediately preceding the specified date
and all share certificates issued by the Bank shall be
read and construed as if such share certificates were
share certificates issued by the company;
(c) all officers and servants of the National
Development Bank of Sri Lanka holding office on
the day immediately preceding the specified date
shall be deemed to be employees of the company
with effect from the specified date and such officers
and servants shall continue to hold office on terms
and conditions not less favourable than the terms
and conditions enjoyed by them under the Bank,
immediately preceding the specified date ;
Business of
National
Development
Bank of Sri Lanka
to vest in
company.
Transitional
provisions.

<!-- page 4 -->

National Development Bank of Sri Lanka
(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 1 of 2005
3
 
(d) all contracts, deeds, bonds,  agreements, guarantees,
powers of attorney, grants of legal representation
and other instruments of whatever nature of the
National Development Bank of Sri Lanka, subsisting
or having effect on the day immediately preceding
the specified date and to which the Bank is a party
or which are in favour of the Bank shall be deemed
with effect from the specified date to be contracts,
deeds, bonds, agreements, guarantees, powers of
attorney, grants of legal representation and other
instruments of whatever nature entered into by or
granted in favour of, as the case may be, by the
company;
(e) all reserves maintained by the National
Development Bank of Sri Lanka for purposes of the
Banking Act or otherwise, on the day immediately
preceding the specified date shall be deemed with
effect from the specified date, to be reserves of the
company;
(f) all actions and proceedings of whatever nature
instituted by or against the National Development
Bank of Sri Lanka and pending on the day
immediately preceding the specified date shall be
deemed as from the specified date, to be actions and
proceedings instituted by or against the company
and may be continued accordingly;
(g) the National Development Bank of Sri Lanka
Provident Fund, the National Development Bank of
Sri Lanka Pension Fund and the National
Development Bank Employee Share Option Scheme
established by the Bank and existing on the day
immediately preceding the specified date and shall
be deemed as from the specified date, to be the
Provident Fund, Pension Fund and Share Option
Scheme respectively, established by the company;

<!-- page 5 -->

4 National Development Bank of Sri Lanka
(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 1 of 2005
(h) all tax credits, refunds, losses, concessions, relief,
benefits and liabilities of the National Development
Bank of Sri Lanka subsisting on the day immediately
preceding the specified date shall be deemed as from
the specified date, to be tax credits, refunds, losses,
concessions, reliefs, benefits and liabilities of the
company;
(i) all  judgments, decrees or orders entered in favour
of, or against the National Development Bank of Sri
Lanka by any Court in any action or preceding shall
with effect from the specified date be deemed to be
a judgment, decree or order entered in favour of, or
against the company.
6. Notwithstanding the repeal of the National
Development Bank of Sri Lanka  Act, No. 2 of 1979 by section
2 of this Act, the provisions of subsections (2), (3), (4), (5) and
(6) of section 30 of the National Development Bank of Sri
Lanka Act, No. 2 of 1979 shall from and after the specified
date, continue to be operative and of full force and avail in
law as if such section had never been repealed, until the
loans so guaranteed by the Government of Sri Lanka in terms
of such section are repaid in full and no further. Every loan
guaranteed as aforesaid prior to the specified date and
subsisting on the day immediately preceding the specified
date, shall as from the specified date continue to subsist as if
the loans so guaranteed were loans raised by the company.
7. With effect from the specified date every reference to
the National Development Bank of Sri Lanka in any Act,
regulation, notification, contract, instrument, record, share
certificate, document, deed, bond, agreement, guarantee,
power of attorney, grant of legal representation and other
instruments of whatever nature whatsoever, shall be deemed
to be a reference to the company whenever it is appropriate
or necessary to give effect to the provisions of this Act and
the name of the company specified in the direction under
subsection (1) of section 3, shall, whenever it is necessary or
appropriate so to do, be substituted in place of the name of
the Bank.
Limited
applicability of
section 30 of the
National
Development
Bank of Sri Lanka
Act, No 2 of 1979.
Consequential
amendments to
written laws &c,.

<!-- page 6 -->

National Development Bank of Sri Lanka
(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 1 of 2005
5
8. (1) The Monetary Board may make rules as it deems
necessary to assist the company to conform within a specified
period (hereinafter referred to as “compliance period”) with
the requirements of the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988 and the
Monetary Law Act, (Chapter 422) that apply in relation to a
licensed commercial bank to which requirements the company
as a licensed specialized bank, was not subject to :
Provided that during the compliance period, the provisions
of the Banking Act and the Monetary Law Act which contain
the aforesaid requirements shall not apply to the company to
the extent necessary to give effect to such rules.
(2) Every rule made by the Monetary Board shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified therein.
9. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the
purpose of facilitating the vesting of the business of the Bank
in the company in accordance with the provisions of section 3.
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister under
subsection (1) shall be published in the Gazette and shall
come into operation on the date of such publication or on
such later date as may be specified in the regulation.
(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall as
soon as convenient be placed before Parliament for approval.
Any regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to
be rescinded as from the date of such disapproval, but without
prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.
(4) Notice of the date on which the regulation is
disapproved shall be published in the Gazette.
10. In the event of an inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Monetary Board
to make rules.
Regulations.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 National Development Bank of Sri Lanka
(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 1 of 2005
11. For purposes of this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires —
“company” means the company referred to in the Order
published under paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of
section 3 ;
“business” includes —
(a) the business carried on by the National
Development Bank of Sri Lanka as a
licensed specialised bank, as at the
specified date;
(b) all property immovable and movable of
the National Development Bank of Sri
Lanka as at the specified date (including
cash balances, reserve funds, investments
and deposits);
(c) all liabilities, including deposits and
contingent liabilities, of the National
Development Bank of Sri Lanka as at the
specified date;
(d) all rights, powers, privileges, authorities,
obligations, duties and interests arising in
or out of the said business, such property
and such liabilities as at the specified date
including the license issued to the National
Development Bank of Sri Lanka by the
Monetary Board under subsection (3) of
section 76A  of the Banking Act;
(e) all books, accounts and documents relating
or appertaining to the  National
Development Bank of Sri Lanka or to any
property of the Bank at the specified date;
“Banking Act” means the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988
as amended from time to time;
“National Development Bank of Sri Lanka” means the
National Development Bank established by the
National Development Bank of Sri Lanka Act, No.
2 of 1979.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 8 -->

National Development Bank of Sri Lanka
(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 1 of 2005
7
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNM  ENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
 LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.