

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 74]
————————
Presented by the Hon. (Ven.) Athuraliye Rathana Thero, M.P.
on 06th of October, 2021
(Published in the Gazette on September 27, 2021)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 24.00 Postage : Rs. 15. 00
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
KELANIYA BUDDHIST WOMEN’S CHARITABLE
SOCIETY (INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Kelaniya Buddhist Women’s Charitable Society

<!-- page 2 -->

1Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society
(Incorporation)
Preamble
Short title
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE KELANIYA BUDDHIST WOMEN'S
CHARITABLE SOCIETY
WHEREAS a Society called and known as the “Kelaniya
Buddhist Women's Charitable Society” has heretofore been
established in Kribathgoda of Gampaha District in Sri Lanka
for the purpose of effectually carrying out it's objects and
transacting all matters connected with the said Society
according to the rules agreed to by its members for fifty six
years (56):
AND WHEREAS the said Society has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was formed and has applied to be incorporated and
it will be for the public advantage to grant the said
application:
BE it therefore enacted by Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Kelaniya Buddhist
Women's Charitable Society  (Incorporation) Act, No.    of
2021.
2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society (hereinafter
referred to as the “Society”) and shall hereafter be admitted
as members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be
a body corporate, with perpetual succession under the name
and style of the “Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable
Society” (hereinafter referred to as “Corporation”) and by
that name may sue and be sued, with full power and authority
to have, and use a common seal and  to alter the same at its
pleasure.
Incorporation
of the
Kelaniya
Buddhist
Women's
Charitable
Society

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to provide facilities necessary for the enhancing of
meditation methods to the Buddhists;
(b) to collect the books and magazines of Buddhism
published worldwide and make arrangements to
access them easily by the Buddhists;
(c) to coordinate and improve proper relation with the
social servants, intellectuals, donators and
benevolent people and with some other similar
welfare societies and foundations in Sri Lanka by
this Corporation;
(d) to print, publish and distribute the books, hand bills
and magazines which may be required by the
Corporation for the promotion and development of
objects of the Corporation;
(e) to cordinate with other unions, societies and
organizations having similar objects of members
of the Corporation;
(f) to act in order to convince Buddhism for every one
and to take necessary actions to propagate
Buddhism all over the world.
4. (1)  Subject to the provisions of this Act, the
management of the affairs of the Corporation shall be carried
out by a Board of Management (hereinafter referred to as the
“Board”) consisting the Chairman, Vice Chairman, Secretary,
the Vice Secretaries, Treasurer, Vice Treasurer and two
Patrons and other sixteen (16) members who shall be
appointed in respect of the rules of the Corporation.
Objects of the
Corporation
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation

<!-- page 4 -->

3Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(2) Persons who were the members of executive committee
of the society at the date of coming into operation of this
Act shall consist or the first executive committee:-
(i) Executive Committee shall meet once in every
month.
(ii) Affairs of the Committee shall be performed
according to the objects of the Society and the
Constitution of the Society.
(iii) Office bearers who do not attend three consecutive
meetings without informing the executive
committee shall be regarded as those who vacate
their office.
(iv) The executive committee shall have the power to
appiont other members instead of the officers who
vacate their office from the executive committee.
(v) An emergency meeting of the exeutive committee
can be called with short notice in case of some
urgnet situation.
(vi) The term of office of the executive committee shall
regarded as three (03) years.
(3) (1) (i) The chief patron of the Corporation shall
be the Most Venerable Makola Mangala
Thero, the Chief Incumbent of
Kiribathgoda Sri Sudharshanaramaya who
is also a Senior Lecturer of University of
Ruhuna;
(ii) Subsequent to the departure of or
resignation of said Venerable Makola
Mangala Thero, the executive committee
shall appoint some suitable Buddhist
Monk as the Chief Patron of the Society
with the approval of the President of the
Society.
30

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society
(Incorporation)
(2) (i) Mrs. P. G. S. Perera, retired Principal (Principal
Service -Grade 1 Sinhala Trainee BA, holder of
Certificate of Diploma in Education) and
Mrs. Harshani Nawarathna, who is a holder of
Diploma in Dhild Development and Principal
of  Sethmaga Singithi Sevana who are holding
the offices of lay patrons of the Society shall be
the lay Patrons of the Corporation.
(ii) Subsequent to the death or resignation of the
said lay Patrons, the lay Patrons having the
following qualifications shall be appointed by
the executive committee consisting of the
President of the Society for their vacant offices:-
(i) Members having long term membership
of the Society.
(ii) Those who have enough experiences of
the Society and religion.
(ii) Those who are educated, intelligent and
recognized by the Society.
(4) (1) Board of Trustees:-
At the first executive meeting holding subsequent to the
annual general meeting, a committee of  office bearers
consisting of the  Chairman, Vice Chairman, Secretary, the
two Vice Secretaries, Treasurer, Vice Treasurer, Two Patrons
and an executive member including the housing manager
shall be appointed:-
(a) Board of Trustees shall act according to the
instructions of the executive committee;
(b) Board of Trustees shall hold the said duty within
the period of three (03) years;
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society
(Incorporation)
5
(c) Members of this Board shall be active members of
the Society for more than three (03) years;
(d) The Society shall have the power to transfer,
mortgage, sell, develop, lease, signing in the
contracts of exchange and buy, construct buildings
and do all necessary actions for such purposes, any
rights, titles or legal rights of immovable and
movable properties where necessary.
(2) Housing Committee :-
Six (06) members including the housing manager can be
appointed to this committee-
(a) The Chairperson of the housing committee shall be
an executive committee member and other members
shall hold the membership of the Society;
(b) The housing committee shall perform the prescribed
duty until the next annual meeting;
(c) The recommendation procedure fo educaion,
health, care and other needs of the daughters of
Senehasa Child Development Center at
No. 307/16, Jayamawatha, Webada, Kirillawala
shall be submitted to the monthly committee;
(d) The membership will be cancelled in the event of
absence of four (04) consecutive meetings without
notice;
(e) The executive committee shall have the power to
appoint housing committee as may be required.
5. (1) The Board shall cause to maintain a Register of
members including the names of persons who became
members of the Soiciety on the immediately perceding date
of operation of this Act and those who are duly enrolled as a
member of the Corporation.
10
15
20
25
30
Register of
members

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society
(Incorporation)
(2) The Register shall consist of the following
information:-
Name of the member, address, occupation, date noted
in the Register, date of ceasing the membership.
6. The Classification of membership are as follows:-
(i) General members:- Entry fee and the monthly
membership fee shall be paid (can be paid
monthly or annually). Society Maintenance
fee and the welfare fee shall be paid on a
decision made at the general meeting.
(ii) Life members:- Entry fees and the life
membership fees shall be paid at once. Society
Maintenance fees and the welfare fees shall
be paid on a decision made at the General
Meeting.
(iii) Honorary members:- Entry fees or the
membership fees will not charged. Any person
who has done a great service to the Buddha
Sasana and is qualified to be a member if the
Society, is entitlied for the  honorary
membership upon a resolution passed by the
votes of two third (2/3) of members. The
honorary members shall not be more than five
(05) members. The persons who are granted
the honorary membership, are entitled for
membership rights.
7. Disqualifications to be a member of the executive
committee are as follows:-
(i) Not being a member of Kelaniya Buddhist
Women's Society;
(ii) Not being a Buddhist;
5
10
15
20
25
30
Disqualifications
to be a
member of
executive
committee
Classification
of
membership

<!-- page 8 -->

7Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society
(Incorporation)
(iii) Being an unsound minded person; and
(iv) Being a person who has been convicted of an
offence of moral turpitude by a competent
court.
8. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act or any other
written law, in order to accomplish the objects of the
Corporation, the Corporation shall have the power to -
(a) (i) open, mainain and close bank accounts related
to the Corporation;
(ii) request and accept the contributions of the
Corporation, grants, donations or all kinds of
aid and donations;
(b) (i) open and maintain bank accounts on behalf of
the “Senehasa Child Development Center”
(Senehasa Dari Sewana) at No. 307/16,
Jaya Mawatha, Webada, Kirillawala.
(ii) request or accept donations, all kinds of aids,
gifts on behalf of “(Senehasa Dari Sewana) at
No. 307/16, Jaya Mawatha, Webada, Kirillawala.
(c) enter into agreements or contracts with any person,
any company or body corporate;
(d) purchase, acquire, rent, construct or otherwise obtain
land or buildings which may be required for the
purposes of the Corporation;
(e) appoint, employ and dismiss necessary officers and
servants; and
(f) pay employee salary, allowance and gratuity as may
be datermined by the Corporation and to train
workforce in Sri Lanka for the purposes of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Powers of the
Corporation

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society
(Incorporation)
(2) The Corporation shall have the power to do all such
other acts or things which are necessary or appropriate to
promote and enhance and to the attainment of all or any of
its objects.
9. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any General Meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the  members present
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act, or any other written law, for all or any of the
following matters:-
(a) the classification of membership, fees payable by
the members of each category, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members;
(b) appointment of the officers for the executive
committee from the Members of the Corporation;
(c) functions, duties and liabilities of executive
committee and other various officers, agents and
servants; and
(d) (i) the procedure to be followed at the meetings
of the Corporation and menagement of the
affairs of the Coporation.
(ii) The said rules may be added to, amended or
rescinded in the same manner as stated in sub
paragraph (01).
(iii) All the members of the Corporation shall be
liable to the rules of the Corporation.
10. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund.
(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, donations,
subscriptions, contributions or fees for and on account of
the Corporation shall be deposited in one or more banks
approved by the Board to the credit of the Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Rules of the
Corporation
Fund of the
Corporation

<!-- page 10 -->

9Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society
(Incorporation)
(3) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under the Act.
11. All debts and liabilities of the Society existing on
the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation hereby
constituted and all debts due to and subscriptions and
contributions payable to the Society existing on that day
shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
12. The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
13. (i) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of its income and expenditure, assets
and liabilities and all other transactions of the
Corporation.
(ii) The final accounts of the Corporation shall be
audited annually by a qualified auditor and the
said report shall be submitted at the General
Meeting of the Society.
(iii) For the purposes of this section, “qualified
auditor” means—
(a) an individual who, being a member of
the Institute of Chartered Accountants
of Sri Lanka or of any other institute
established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant,
issued by the Council of such Institute;
or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the
resident partners of which,being a
member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Debts due by
and payable
to the Society
Financial
Year
Accounts and
Auditing
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society
(Incorporation)
Property
remaining on
dissolution
institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant,
issued by the Council of such Institute.
14. (1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to any other institution having objects
similar to those of the Corporation, and which, is  by the
rules thereof, prohibited from distributing any income or
property among its members. The members of the
Corporation shall decide the said institution or institutions
at the time of dissolution of the Corporation or prior to the
dissolution of the Corporation.
15. The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody
of the President and it shall not be affixed to any instrument
whatsoever, except in the presence of chairman and Secretary
of the Corporation who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
16. Nothing  in this Act contained  shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.
17. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Savings of
the rights of
the Republic
and others
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency
Seal of the
Corporation
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 12 -->

11Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society
(Incorporation)
Department of Government Printing