

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2406
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2402
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"094 – 2018 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 19 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'10'19
No. 2,094 –  FRiday ,  octobER 19, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 09th November, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 26th october, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2399-b 81459- 5,403 (10/2018)

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2018
2400
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2018
2401
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2018
2402
Posts – vacant
JuDICIAL SERvICE COmmISSION  
vacancies in the Judicial Service of Sri Lanka
APPLICATIONS are invited for the post of Judicial Officer 
class ii Grade i (Magistrate) in Sri Lanka Judicial Service. 
01. applications should be made by persons having the 
required qualifications and they should reach the Judicial 
Service commission Secretariat on or before 19.11.2018.
02. Salary Scale .– Rs. 75,000 -10x1,630 - Rs. 91,300 
(in accordance with the Management Services circular                      
No. 01/2018).
Allowances to which the Judicial Officers are entitled, 
would be paid in addition to the salary. 
03. Every applicant must be –
 (a) a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 (b) of excellent moral character and physically fit.
 (c) prepared to serve in any part of the island. 
04. eligibility :
 (a) a  President of Labour tribunal whose period of 
service is not less than two years as at the date of 
the Gazette notification ; or
 (b) an attorney-at-Law who has or had been in 
active practice for not less than four years as at 
the date of the Gazette notification ; or 
 (c) an attorney-at-Law who has served in the 
capacity of a Legal Officer in any Ministry or 
Government department or a State corporation 
for not less than four years as at the date of the 
Gazette notification ; or 
 (d) an attorney-at-Law who has served in the 
capacity of a Legal Officer in any Firm, Bank 
or Establishment for not less than four years 
and who has regularly appeared before court 
during such period as at the date of the Gazette 
Notification. 
05. all the applicants should sit for a written test and will 
be called for an interview based on the results of said test. 
Note :
 (i) the receipt obtained by paying Rs. 3,000 
as application fee from any People's bank 
branch to the credit of the account of 
"Secretary, Judicial Service commission" 
No. 297100199025039 of the People's 
bank, dam Street branch should be sent to 
the J. S. c. Secretariat either by registered 
post or personally to obtain the application 
form. When filling the receipt at the time of 
payment, the applicant's name and address 
should be stated in the space provided in the 
receipt. 
 (ii) applicants are kindly requested to forward 
their applications either by registered post or 
by personally to the JSc Secretariat. 
 (iii) Applications from the officers in the Public 
Service must be forwarded through the Head 
of the department. 
the address for obtaining and sending applications :
Secretary, 
Judicial Service commission, 
Judicial Service commission Secretariat, 
colombo 12. 
 
 H
. Sanjeewa Somaratne, 
 Secretary, 
 Judicial Service commission. 
Judicial Service commission Secretariat, 
colombo 12,
01st october, 2018.
10–451

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2018
2403
PARLIAmENT Of SRI LANkA
vacancies
aPPLicatioNS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka 
who are physically sound and of excellent moral character 
for following posts on the Staff of the Secretary-General of 
Parliament. 
applications prepared in accordance with the specimen 
given below should be sent under registered cover to reach the 
“Secretary-General of Parliament, Parliament of Sri Lanka, 
Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte" on or before 9
th November, 
2018. the post applied for should be indicated on the top 
left-hand corner of the envelope. (this advertisement is also 
available on the website: www.parliament.lk)
1.0 Utility Receiving Assistant :
 1.1 Salary Scale.– according to the Schedule i of 
the Management Services circular 06/2016 
dated 07.11.2016, monthly salary scale specified 
for this post is Rs. 25,520-9x 270/10x 300/6x 
330- Rs. 32,930. the selected candidates will 
be placed initially at the monthly salary step 
of Rs. 20,248 according to the schedule ii of 
the circular mentioned above. (the minimum 
initial gross monthly remuneration together 
with all the allowances will be approximately 
Rs. 50,000)
    1.2  Age Limit.– Should not be less than 18 years 
and not more than 30 years of age as at the 
closing date of applications.
   1.3   Educational Qualifications. – Should have 
passed General Certificate of Education 
(ordinary Level) Examination in six subjects 
including credit pass for Sinhala or tamil 
language and passes for Mathematics and 
English at not less than two sittings.
 1.4 Professional Qualifications. – Should have 
successfully completed a vocational training 
course not less than 05 months of duration on 
Basic Level Cookery Certificate/Basic Level 
Food and Beverage Certificate conducted by 
the Sri Lanka institute of tourism and Hotel 
Management (SLitHM)/National apprenticeship 
and industrial training authority (Naita )/ 
V ocational training authority (Vta) or any 
other similar vocational training institute.  
   1.5. experience.– Experience with not less than 06 
months on Utility Receiving assistant / Kitchen 
assistant / Restaurant assistant or in a similar 
post in the Hotel Sector.  
   1.6. Method of Recruitment.–  through a written 
test/ trade test and a structural interview. 
2.0  Food and Beverages Assistant :
 2.1  Salary Scale.– according to the Schedule i of 
the Management Services circular 06/2016 
dated 07.11.2016, monthly salary scale specified 
for this post is Rs. 28,250-9x 300/10x 330/3x 
380- Rs. 35,390. the selected candidates will 
be placed initially at the monthly salary step 
of Rs. 22,412 according to the Schedule ii of 
the circular mentioned above. (the minimum 
initial gross monthly remuneration together 
with all the allowances will be approximately 
Rs. 53,000)
 2.2.  Age Limit.– Should not be less than 22 years 
and not more than 35 years of age as at the 
closing date of applications.
 2.3.  Educational Qualifications. – Should have 
passed General Certificate of Education 
(ordinary Level) Examination in six subjects 
including credit pass for Sinhala or tamil 
language and passes for Mathematics and 
English at not less than two sittings.
 2.4.  Professional Qualifications. – Should have 
followed and successfully completed a 
vocational training course not less than one year 
(NVQ level 3 or above) conducted by Sri Lanka 
institute of tourism and Hotel Management 
(SLitHM) or National apprentice and 
industrial training authority (Naita) or 
V ocational training authority (Vta) or any 
other similar vocational training institute.   
 2.5 experience.– Experience not less than two 
years in a star class hotel as waiter/ steward or 
in a similar post.  
 2.6  Method of Recruitment.–  through a written 
test/ trade test and structural interview. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2018
2404
3.0  Terms and Conditions of Service :
 (i) these posts are permanent. Pension entitlement 
pertaining to these posts will be determined 
according to the policy decisions taken by the 
Government in future.  appointments will be 
made subject to a three-year (03) probation 
period. If a person who has been confirmed in 
a permanent and pensionable post in the Public 
/ Provincial Public Service is selected, he / she 
will be appointed subject to an acting period of 
one year.
 
 (ii) Selected candidates will be subject to the 
Financial and departmental Regulations 
applicable to the staff of the Secretary - General 
of Parliament.
 (iii) Selected candidates should contribute to 
the Widows’ and orphans’/Widowers’ and 
orphans’ Pension Fund from his/her salary with 
a percentage specified by the Government.
 (iv) Selected candidates will be subject to a medical 
examination.
 (v) a Security clearance Report with respect to the 
selected candidates will be obtained prior to his 
/ her appointment.
4.0 applicants should attach the copies of the following 
certificates (not originals) to their applications. Originals of 
the certificates should be produced, when called upon to do 
so :
 (a) Birth Certificate
 (b) Certificates of Educational Qualifications
 (c) Certificates of Professional Qualifications
 (d)  Certificates of Experience
 5.0 applicants serving in Public / Provincial Public 
Service /State corporations / Statutory boards should 
send their applications through their respective Heads of 
departments / institutions.
6.0 Canvassing in any form will be a disqualification.
7.0 applications received after the closing date or 
sent without copies of the relevant certificates or not 
sent through Heads of departments / institutions will be 
rejected. applications sent through Heads of departments 
/institutions but received after the closing date, and 
applications not prepared in accordance with the specimen 
will also be rejected. 
 K. a. 
rohanadeera, 
  acting Secretary-General of Parliament,
 Parliament of Sri Lanka.
Parliament of Sri Lanka, 
Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte.
19th october, 2018.
PaRLiaMENt oF SRi LaNKa
Specimen application for the poSt 
of ……………………………………….
01. (a) Name with initials (in Sinhala/t amil) :–––––––––.
 (b)  Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/tamil)  :
  ––––––––––––.
 (c)  Full Name (in English capital Letters)( Mr./Mrs./ 
 Miss) :––––––––––––.
 
02. National identity card Number :––––––––––––.
03. (a) Private address :––––––––––––.
  t elephone No. :––––––––––––.
 (b) Office Address :––––––––––––.
  t elephone No. :––––––––––––.
 (c)  Please indicate the address to where the admission  
 to be posted :
  Private :                                 Office :
04. (a) date of birth :––––––––––––.
  (A copy of the Birth Certificate should be attached)
 (b) age as at 9th November,2018: 
  y ears :–––––––. Months :–––––––.days :–––––––.
05. civil Status :– –––––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2018
2405
06. Gender :Male / Female :––––––––––––.
07. State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :––––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications: (Copies of relevant 
certificates should be attached) :
examination Subject Pass 
Obtained
Year
G. c. E. 
(o/L)
Sinhala/tamil
Mathematics
English
   
09. V ocational Qualifications (copies of the certificates 
should be attached) :–––––––––––––.
10. Experience (copies of the documents certifying 
experience should be attached) :
Hotel Number of Stars 
(For F and B 
Assistants only)
Period of 
Service 
Post
11. details of Present Employment:
 (a) Name and address of the institution :–––––––––––.
 (b) Present Post :–––––––––––.
 (c) date of First appointment :–––––––––––.
 (d) basic monthly salary :–––––––––––.
 (e) allowances :–––––––––––.
 (f) Gross Salary :–––––––––––.
12. Have you been convicted for a criminal offence by a 
court of Law? :–––––––––––.
 if so, give details :–––––––––––.
13. Have you served under the Government before? :                  
–––––––––––.
 if so, give details :–––––––––––.
i do hereby certify that all the particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and correct. i am also aware that, 
I am liable to be disqualified for this post if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before 
selection, or to be dismissed without any compensation if 
such detection is made after appointment.
  –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––––.
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Certification of Head of Department/Institution 
(only for applicants serving in the Public Service/
Provincial Public Service/Government corporations/
Statutory boards)
Secretary General of Parliament, 
i recommend and forward the application of Mr / Mrs 
/Miss ............................... holding the post of ...................
.................................... in this institution. i certify that his/
her work and conduct are satisfactory and that he/she has 
not been subjected to any disciplinary action or there is 
no intention to make such inquiry. He/she can be released/
cannot be released from the service if selected for this post.  
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of department/
 institution.
 (Official Stamp) 
date :–––––––––––––.
10–1515

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2018
2406
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of JuSTICE AND PRISON 
REfORmS
Recruitment to the Post of Stenographer, Segment 
II of the management Assistant Non-Technical 
Category of the Labour Tribunal Secretariat (on 
open basis) - 2018
aPPLicatioNS are invited from suitable citizens of Sri 
Lanka to recruit qualified persons on open basis to 25 posts 
of Stenographers fallen vacant in the Labour tribunals that 
are within the purview of the Ministry of Justice and Prison 
Reforms. application forms prepared as per the specimen 
form appended at the end of this notice should be sent by 
registered post to reach the "Secretary, Ministry of Justice 
and Prison Reforms, Superior courts complex, colombo 
12" on or before the closing date of applications mentioned 
below. the words "Recruitment to the Post of Stenographer, 
Segment ii of the Management assistant Non-t echnical 
category of the Labour tribunal Secretariat" should be 
written on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing 
the application form. 
closing date of application will be on 15.11.2018.
Note.– No allegation that an application form or a 
document respecting such form has been lost or 
delayed in the post can be considered. applicants who 
delay their applications until the last day will do so at 
their own risk. 
01. Method of Recruitment .– Selection will be made on 
the order of merit secured both at the Practical test to be 
conducted by an institution to be nominated by the Secretary 
to the Ministry of Justice and Prison Reforms and as well as 
at the Structured interview to be conducted by the interview 
board to be appointed by the Secretary to the Ministry of 
Justice and Prison Reforms. the number of recruitments and 
the date on which such recruitments will take effect will be 
decided by the Secretary to the Ministry of Justice and Prison 
Reforms by the order of the Public Service commission. 
02. Terms of engagement : 
 (i) this post is permanent ;
 (ii) An officer recruited to this post is subject to a 
probationary period of three (03) years from 
the date on which his/her appointment takes 
effect. The officer is required to pass the First 
Efficiency Bar Examination before the expiry 
of the said three (03) years from the date on 
which the recruitments will be made to this  
post ;
 (iii) An officer recruited to this post should, in 
terms of the Public administration circular 
No. 01/2014 and the circulars issued incidental 
thereto, acquire the prescribed language 
proficiency within five (05) years of appointing 
to the post. The officer who enters the public 
service in a medium of language other than in 
a medium of any of the official languages will 
require to reach within the period of probation 
of three (03) years a requisite standard of 
proficiency in one official language and the 
standard proficiency of other official language 
within five (05) years. 
 (iv) this appointment will be subject to the 
Procedural Rules of the Public Service 
commission, Establishments code of the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, 
Financial Regulations, departmental orders. 
03. The grade to be recruited.– Grade iii.
04. Salary Scale.– in terms of the Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016, this post which is under MN-1-2016 
carries a salary scale of Rs. 27,140 -10x300 - 11x350 - 
10x495 - 10x660 = Rs. 45,540 per month and the initial 
salary scale amounts to Rs. 21,532 as per grading system. 
05. Qualifications : 
 (i) Educational Qualifications :
 (a) Should have passed six (06) subjects at the 
G. c. E. (o/L) Examination with credit 
passes for Sinhala/t amil/English language 
and Mathematics and two (02) other subjects 
at one sitting. 
 (b) Should have passed at least one (01) subject 
at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination. (except 
for General common test)
 (ii) Vocational Qualifications .– Should have 
followed a course on stenography with not less 
than six (06) months at an institute recognized 
by the tertiary and V ocational Education 
commission or have possessed a credit pass 
for type Writing and shorthand at the G. c. E. 
(o/L) Examination. 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2018
2407
 (iii) experience.– Experience, if any, will be 
considered as an added qualification. 
06. Age limit. – applicants should be not less than 18 
years of age and not more than 30 years of age as at the 
closing date of applications. 
07. Physical Fitness.– Every applicant should be :
 (i) in good mental and physical order to serve in 
any part of the Island ;
 (ii) in good mental and physical order to discharge 
the duties and functions of the post. 
08. Other Qualifications.– Every applicant must furnish 
satisfactory proof to the effect that he/she :
 (i) is a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 (ii) is of excellent moral character,
 (iii) has fulfilled the necessary qualifications in every 
respect as at the closing date of applications 
referred to in this Notice/ Gazette Notification 
calling for applications. 
09. Method of Recruitment : 
 09.1 Practical Test.– Marks will be awarded at a 
Practical test to be conducted by an institution 
to be nominated by the Secretary to the Ministry 
of Justice and Prison reforms. 
Method under which marks are awarded at the Practical 
test :
Subjects Maximum 
Marks
Pass 
Marks
Shorthand 100 40%
type Writing 100 40%
 09.2 Structured Interview.– Marks will be awarded 
by a Structured interview board to be appointed 
by the Secretary to the Ministry of Justice and 
Prison Reforms. 
Method under which marks are awarded at the Structured 
interview :
Main areas for which marks 
are to be awarded
Maximum 
Marks
Pass 
Marks
01. additional Educational 
Qualifications
10
Not 
applicable02. additional V ocational 
Qualifications
20
Main areas for which marks 
are to be awarded
Maximum 
Marks
Pass 
Marks
03. Language Proficiency
04. (Proficiency in Sinhala/
tamil/English)
10
Not 
applicable
05. computer Literacy 15
06. Experience 40
07. Skills exhibited at the 
interview
05
total 100
 09.3 General Interview.– Qualifications will be 
checked by the interview board to be appointed 
by the Secretary to the Ministry of Justice and 
Prison Reforms. No marks will be awarded.
Note.– Applicants qualified at the Practical Test 
will be summoned at the Structured interview. 
Recruitments will be made on the basis of the 
order of merit secured both at the Practical test 
and as well as the Structured interview subject 
however to the number of available vacancies. 
10. applications should be prepared on a a4 paper 
of 22x29cm in size using both sides and items from 01 
to 11 to appear on the first page, 12 to 15 on the second 
page and 16 onwards on the third page. It should be filled 
by the applicant's own legible handwriting. applications 
which are not in conformity with the specimen appended 
at the end of this notice or will be received after the closing 
date of acceptance of applications are liable to be rejected 
without notice. incomplete applications and applications 
of applicants who do not possess the prescribed minimum 
requirements will also be rejected. applicants should 
therefore see that his/her application is perfect in all respect. 
Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
important –
 (i) No document or copy thereof should be annexed 
to the application. 
 (ii) applications of the applicants in respect of which 
the relevant documents are failed to submitted 
when requested to do so will not be considered. 
  Applications from officers who are in the 
Public Service/Provincial Public Service/Public 
corporations are required to be forwarded 
through the respective Heads of the departments. 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2018
2408
11. examination fee.– Every applicant should deposit a 
sum of Rs. 300 as an examination fee to the credit of the 
account No. 176100199025184 in favour of the Secretary 
to the Ministry of Justice and Prison Reforms. the original 
of the receipt issued by the bank in proof of the payment 
should be affixed in the space provided for the purpose in 
the application. 
12. Procedural Rules of the Public Service commission, 
circulars that are now in force or may be issued from time 
to time in the future and the conditions pertaining to scheme 
of recruitment to the post of Stenographer, Segment ii of 
the Management assistant Non-technical category of the 
Labour tribunal Secretariat shall be applicable to this post. 
 piyumanthi peiriS, 
 Secretary (Actg.),
 Ministry of Justice and Prison Reforms.
02nd october, 2018.
No. .......................
(For office use only)
Medium
Sinhala
tamil
English
(Mark P in the relevant box)
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN FoRM 
miniStry of juStice and priSon reformS
application for the poSt of Stenographer, Segment ii of 
the management aSSiStant non-technical category of the 
labour tribunal Secretariat (on open baSiS)
01.  (a) Name with initials (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––.
   Name with initials (in English block capitals)  
  :––––––––––.
  (b) Full Name (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
   Full Name (in English block capitals) :–––––––.
02. Permanent address (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
03. Permanent address (in English block capitals) :–––––.
04. address to which letters should be sent (in English 
block capitals) :––––––––––.
 (complete only if permanent address may change)
05. telephone No. :––––––––––.
06. National identity card No. : 
07. Sex :––––––––––.
08. date of birth :
 y ear :––––––––– Month :––––––––– date :––––––––
09. age as at the closing date of applicatons :
 y ears :––––––––  Months :––––––––  dates :–––––––
10. Race :––––––––––.
11. Marital Status :––––––––––.
12. Results of the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination :
 y ear :––––––––––.   index No. :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
13. Results of the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination :
 y ear :––––––––––.   index No. :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
14. Qualifications as per paragraph 05 of the notice calling 
for applications :
  (i) Educational Qualifications :––––––––––.
  (ii) V ocational Qualifications :––––––––––.
  (iii) Experience :––––––––––.
15. Language Proficiency (Mark P in the relevant box) :
Very 
Good
Good Ordinary Weak
Sinhala
tamil
English

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2018
2409
16. Affix the receipt in the space provided below :
Applicant's Declaration 
i, ...........................,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.......... declare that the 
particulars furnished by me in this application are true and 
correct. i certify that i have not been subject to any form of 
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  oF  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.
disciplinary action including dismissal from the service or 
retirement for general inefficiency as a merciful alternative 
to dismissal and i have not vacated the post previously. i 
am also aware that, if any particulars contained herein are 
found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification, 
if detected before selection and to dismissal without 
compensation, if detected after appointment. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
10–1508