

<!-- page 1 -->

1
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2025. 05'30
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka - 30.05.2025
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(P ublished by Authority)
PART  II  — LeGAL
(Separate paging is given to each Language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
ImPoRTAnT   noTIce  ReGARDInG   AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS  
foR   PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekL y  “GAzeTTe”
Attention  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of pub lication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.   
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  20th June 2025 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06h June 2025.                                
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 K.G. Pradeep Pushpa kumara,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
02
nd January, 2025.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
51 - 82685 - 000 (05/2025)
 Page Page
 
Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases  ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... —
Miscellaneous Notices .... 52
 wxl 2"439 - 2025 uehs ui 30 jeks isl=rdod - 2025'05'30  
 No. 2,439 - FRIDAy , MAy 30, 2025


<!-- page 2 -->

52
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2025.05'30
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka - 30.05.2025
Miscellaneous Notices
PARLIAmenT
An Act to Incorporate the Sri Lanka Institute of Agriculture
I, L. M. Abeywickrama, do hereby give notice under No. 53(1) of the Standing Order of the Parliament of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, that I propose to introduce of Parliament a Bill entitle "An Act to in corporate the Sri Lanka 
Institute of Agriculture".
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Institute which has the following general objects :-
(a) to promote and advance the Science, practice and professionalism in all sectors of Agriculture in Sri Lanka;
(b) to collaborate with private and state institutions on matters relating to the Agricultural Profession; and
(c) to advise Government on matters relating to the Agricultural Profession on request and when needed,
etc.
  L. M. Abeywickrama,
  Member of Parliament.
 
05-181
________________________________
In The hIGh couRT  of  The   WeSTeRn  PRovInce 
In the exercise of its civil Jurisdiction holden in colombo
in  the matter of Winding up of A S CHATOOR (TEA) 
(PRIV ATE) LIMITED (PV 7770), having its registered office at 
No. 376-380 K. C. C. Perera Mawatha, Colombo 13.
    
Case No. : CHC 21/2025/CO
Nature  : Winding - up
Procedure : Summary
1. Aslam Anver Chatoor,
No. 40E, Lake Garden,
Off Lake Drive, Rajagiriya.
  ............................... Petitioner.
 
Notice is hereby that a petition for the winding up of the above-named Company by the High Court of the Western  Province 
in the exercising of its Civil Jurisdiction Holden in Colombo was, on 04th April, 2025 presented to the said Court by above 
named petitioner and the said petition is directed to be heard before the Court on the 09
th  July, 2025, and any Creditor of 
Contributory of said Company desirous to support or oppose the making of an order on the said petition may appear at the time 
of hearing in person or by his Attorney-at-Law for that purpose and a copy of the petition will be furnished to any Creditor 
or Contributory of the said Company requiring the same by undersigned on payment of the prescribed charged for the same.

<!-- page 3 -->

53
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2025.05'30
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka - 30.05.2025
Signed : K. H. P. Danukshika Priyadarshani,
 Attorney – at – Law for the Petitioner,
 No. 166/1, Hulftsdorp Street, Colombo 12.
Note.- Any person who intends to appear on the hearing of the said Petition must serve on or send by post to the above 
named Attorney-at-Law for the Petitioner, Notice in writing of his intention so to do. The notice must state the name 
and address of the person, or a firm the name and address of a firm, or his or their Attorney - at - Law (if any) and 
must be served, or if posted must be sent by post in sufficient time to reach the above named no later than Six (6.00 
p.m.) o' Clock in the afternoon of the 08th of July, 2025.
 
05-230
PRINTED   AT   THE   DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING,   SRI LANKA.