

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'16
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA -  16.10.2023
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2354$06 - 2023 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 16 jeks i÷od - 2023'10'16
No.  2354/06  -  MONDAY ,  OCTOBER  16,   2023
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
 Seal
RANIL WICKREMESINGHE
1A - G 40541 — 11 (10/2023)
Proclamations & C., by the President 
Ranil Wickremesinghe
President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
T o  :         
 1. Hon. Justice Wewage Priyasath Gerard Dep Esquire, PC -  Retired Chief Justice
 2. Suntharam Arumainayaham Esquire
 3. Senanayake Alisandaralage Esquire
 4. Nalin Jayantha Abeysekara Esquire, PC
 5. Rajitha Naveen Christopher Senaratna Perera Esquire
 6. Ahamed Lebbe Mohamed Saleem Esquire
 7. Madam Sagarica Delgoda
 8. Madam Esther Sriyani Nimalka Fernando
 9. Vitharanage Deepani Samantha Rodrigo Esquire

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'16
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA -  16.10.2023
2A
GREETINGS !
WHEREAS, new laws have been introduced effecting changes to the election system and the mode of conducting elections 
of this country with the promulgation of the 1978 Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and such 
laws need to be amended to suit current societal needs by conforming with principles of good governance and strengthening 
representative democracy;
AND WHEREAS, there is a tendency on certain occasions for political parties, independent groups and their membership 
to engage in unbecoming behaviour in their political and public affairs and in inappropriate media use, a need has arisen to 
introduce a code of conduct and media standards. 
AND WHEREAS, due to registration of political parties without an actual need for the purpose of transference to other 
parties for ﬁ nancial gains and other improper objectives, as well as certain other activities of political parties, the public trust 
in such political parties has eroded, and therefore, there is a need to restore trust and accountability by strengthening the legal 
framework for registration and operation of political parties. 
AND WHEREAS, I am of the view that it is necessary that a Commission of Inquiry be appointed to investigate, inquire 
into and report on matters hereinafter referred to;
NOW THEREFORE I, Ranil Wickremesinghe, President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka reposing 
great trust and con ﬁ dence in your prudence, ability, and ﬁ delity do, in pursuance of the provisions of Section 2 of the 
Commissions of Inquiry Act No. 17 of 1948 (Chapter 393) as amended, by these presents appoint you, the said;
 1. Hon. Justice Wewage Priyasath Gerard Dep Esquire, PC -  Retired Chief Justice
 2. Suntharam Arumainayaham Esquire
 3. Senanayake Alisandaralage Esquire
 4. Nalin Jayantha Abeysekara Esquire, PC
 5. Rajitha Naveen Christopher Senaratna Perera Esquire
 6. Ahamed Lebbe Mohamed Saleem Esquire
 7. Madam Sagarica Delgoda
 8. Madam Esther Sriyani Nimalka Fernando
 9. Vitharanage Deepani Samantha Rodrigo Esquire
to be my Commissioners to obtain information, investigate, inquire into and report on the following matters, namely;
 01. Examine all existing election laws and regulations and make necessary recommendations for the amendment of 
election laws to suit current needs, giving special consideration to following factors as well. 
 i. Increase women and youth representation.
 ii. Reduce the period between the time of declaration of an election and the release of results after conducting such 
election.
 iii. Provide an opportunity for electronic voting using modern technology instead of the printed ballot paper. 
 iv. Provide facilities for voting by Sri Lankans in overseas. 
 v. Enable a person to contest 02 elections for the selection of people’s representatives and have the opportunity to 
represent both councils at the same time if elected (eg. to give an opportunity for a person elected to Parliament 
to also contest a provincial council election, and if elected, have the opportunity to represent both councils at 
the same time).
 vi. Provide an opportunity for voters not serving in the government sector, who are engaged in provision of election 
related services on election day, to use postal voting.
 vii. Formulate an appropriate mechanism blended with the ﬁ rst-past-the-post voting system for the election of 
people’s representatives, not limiting to the proportional representation system, but taking into consideration 
the plural nature of society, and reﬂ ecting such plural characteristics. 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'16
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA -  16.10.2023
3A
 02. Make recommendations for the formulation of media standards for the appropriate use of media by political parties 
and independent groups.
 03. Make recommendations for the introduction of a code of conduct for political parties, independent groups and their 
membership in performing political and public affairs.
 04. Make recommendations for the strengthening of laws and regulations related to registration of political parties and 
their operations in a manner that elicits trust and public accountability.
And, I do hereby appoint you, Hon. Justice Wewage Priyasath Gerard Dep Esquire, PC – Retired Chief Justice to be the 
Chairman of the said Commission. 
And, I do hereby authorize and empower you, the said Commissioners, to hold all such inquiries and make all other 
investigations, into the aforesaid matters as may appear necessary, and require you to transmit to me within Six (06) months 
from the date of this warrant a report thereon under hand, setting out the ﬁ ndings of your inquiries and investigations, and 
your recommendations relating thereto.
And, I do hereby require and direct all public of ﬁ cers, and other persons to whom you may apply for assistance or 
information to render all such assistance and furnish all such information as may be properly rendered and furnished in that 
behalf;
Given at Colombo under the seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka on this Fifteenth Day of October Two 
Thousand and Twenty Three.
       By Order of the Hon. President,
 
 E. M. S. B. E
KANAYAKE,
Secretary to the President.
EOG 10-0177
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.