

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
PRADESHIYA  SABHAS  (AMENDMENT)
————————
————————
Presented by the Minister of Provincial Councils and Local Government on
05th of April, 2018
(Published in the Gazette on October 17, 2017)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
A
BILL
Price : Rs. 12.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
————————
[Bill No. 241]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
to amend the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987.

<!-- page 2 -->

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT
Clause 2 : This clause amends section 19 of the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) and the legal effect of this section
as amended is to enable Pradeshiya Sabhas to spend any part of the Pradeshiya Sabha Fund
for development activities in estate settlements.
Clause 3 : This clause amends section 33 of the principal enactment and the legal effect
of this section as amended is to enable Pradeshiya Sabhas to construct and maintain roads
and other common amenities in the plantation regions upon adoption of a special resolution
and in concurrence with the administrative authority of the relevant estate.

<!-- page 3 -->

1Pradeshiya Sabhas (Amendment)
5
10
L.D.—O. 3/2016
AN ACT TO AMEND THE PRADESHIYA SABHAS ACT, NO. 15 OF 1987
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Pradeshiya Sabhas
(Amendment) Act, No.     of 2017.
2. Section 19 of the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of
1987 (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended in subsection (1) of that
section as follows:—
(1) by the substitution, in paragraph (xiv) for the words
“improvement or maintenance of village works,”
of the words “improvement  or maintenance of
village works or estate settlements,”;
(2) by the substitution, in paragraph (xxii) for the words
“integrated development of selected villages,” of
the words “integrated development of selected
villages, estate settlements,”.
3. Section 33 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) by the renumbering of that section as subsection
(1) thereof;
(2) by the insertion, immediately after the renumbered
subsection (1), of the following subsection:—
“(2) In the case of plantation regions, the
Pradeshiya Sabhas may, upon adoption of a special
resolution and in concurrence with the
Short title.
Amendment
of section 19
of Act,
No. 15 of
1987.
15
20
25
Amendment
of section 33
of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

Pradeshiya Sabhas (Amendment)2
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
5
administrative authority of the relevant estate,
utilise the Pradeshiya Sabha fund to facilitate the
residents of the respective plantation regions with
roads, wells and other common amenities necessary
for the welfare of such residents.
For the purpose of this section, “plantation
regions” means the areas coming under the
Divisional Secretary’s Divisions in the Districts in
the Central, Uva, Sabaragamuwa, Southern, Western
and North Central Provinces, where the resident
labourers live  in the estates in which tea, rubber,
coconut and oil palm are cultivated.”.
4. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
10

<!-- page 5 -->

3Pradeshiya Sabhas (Amendment)
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING