

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
1701
1701
wxl 1"774 - 2012 wf.daia;= 30 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2012'08'30
No. 1,774 – THURSDAY, AUGUST 30, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1704
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1707
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 21st September, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th
September, 2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
23rd June, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Parts III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,773 of 24.08.2012 were not published.
The Catalogue of books printed quarterly in January– March, 2009 has been published in Part V of this gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
1702
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
1703
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
1704
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
COLOMBO  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 24th Sep tember,
2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
09th August, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post  and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Colombo Colombo Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of New Bazaar Division General, District Secretariat, Dam
Street, Colombo 12.
Colombo Colombo Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Houltsdrof Division General, District Secretariat, Dam
Street, Colombo 12.
Colombo Ratmalana Post of Medical Registrar of Births and District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Deaths of Ratmalana Mount General, District Secretariat, Dam
Lavinia Division Street, Colombo 12.
Colombo Thimbirigasya Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Castle Division General, District Secretariat, Dam
Street, Colombo 12.
Colombo Colombo Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of (St. Sebastian Place) Colombo Division General, District Secretariat, Dam
Street, Colombo 12.
Posts – Vacant

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
1705
District Divisional Secretariat Post  and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Colombo Kaduwela Post of Regis trar of Births and Deaths District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Battaramulla Division and Marriages General, District Secretariat, Dam
(General) of Hewagam Koralaya Division Street, Colombo 12.
08–781
––––––––––––––––
JUDICIAL  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Applications are called in terms of the Muslim Marriage
and Divorce Act (Chapter 115) for the recruitment of
Quazis for the areas indicated in the following Schedule
PERSONS with following qualifications may apply.
Any Muslim male who is a graduate of a recognized university
or a Maulavi holding a certificate from an institution recognized by
the Ministry of charge of Muslim Religions and Cultural Affairs or
a holder of the Al-Alim certificate issued by the Department of
Education or an Attorney-at-Law or a holder of other similar
qualification or a retired public servant who has held office in staff
grade.
A person currently holding a permanent post in the Public Service
shall not be eligible to apply.
Applicants should be married persons over 40 years and below
70 years of age and of good character and standing in the community
and possessing a sound knowledge of the law relating to Muslim
Marriage and Divorce.
The selected candidate will be appointed for a period which will
be specified in the letter of appointment.
It is a legal requirement that a Quazi should reside in the area for
which he is appointed.
A Quazi will be paid a monthly allowance of Rs. 6,000 and an all
exclusive allowance of Rs. 5,000 per month for the cost of support
services, stationary and postal expenses.
Applications forms can be obtained from the Judicial Service
Commission Secretariat and should be sent by registered post to
reach the Secretary, Judicial Service Commission on or before 05th
October, 2012. The envelope containing the application should be
marked “Post of Quazi” on its top left hand corner.
M
ANJULA THILAKARATHNE,
Secretary,
Judicial Service Commission.
Judicial Service Commission Secretary,
P. O. Box 573,
Hulftsdorp,
Colombo 12.
SCHEDULE
01. Badulla – Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Administrative
District of Badulla under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage
and Divorce Act.
02. Balapitiya and Elpitiya – Applications are called by the
Judicial Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in the
Balapitiya and Elpitiya judicial divisions under (Chapter 15)
the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
03. Beruwala – Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the D. S.’s Division of
Beruwala in Kalutara District under (Chapter 15) the Muslim
Marriage and Divorce Act.
04. Colombo North – Applications are called by the Judicial
Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in Fort, Pettah,
Maradana, Suduwella, Borella, Kuppiyawatta, Dematagoda,
Maligakanda, Madampitiya, Modara, Mattakkuliya, Cota
Road, Kolonnawa, Angoda and Wellampitiya areas in the
Colombo Judicial division under (Chapter 15) the Muslim
Marriage and Divorce Act.
05. Colombo East – Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in Hulftsdorp, Grandpass,
Maligawatta, St. Sebastian Road, New Bazzar, Thotalanga,
Kochchikade, Kotahena, Padukka, Hokandara, Meegoda,
Godagama, Panagoda, Malabe, Thalangama North,
Kotikawatta and Buthgamuwa areas in the Colombo Judicial
division under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce
Act.
06. Mannar – Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Revenue Division of
Mannar and Manthai in Mannar District under (Chapter 15)
the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
07. Matara – Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Division of
Matara under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce
Act.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
1706
08. Mawanella – Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Division of
Mawanella under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
09. Nuwara-Eliya – Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Division of
Nuwara-Eliya and Hatton under (Chapter 15) the Muslim
Marriage and Divorce Act.
10. Refugee Population – Applications are called by the Judicial
Service Commission for the Post of Quazi for the Refugee
Population under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
11. Karaiwahupatthu South (Sainthamaruthu) – Applications are
called by the Judicial Service Commission for the Post of
Quazi in the D. S.'s Division of Sainthamaruthu in Ampara
District under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce
Act.
12. Sammanthurai – Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the D. S.'s Division of
Sammanthurai No. 01, 02, Malkampitiya, Nainakadu,
Malwattha, Navithanweli and Annaivili area in Ampara
District under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce
Act.
13. Thambalagamuwa and Kanthale – Applications are called by
the Judicial Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in the
D. S.'s Division of Thambalagamuwa and Kanthale in
Trincomalee District under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage
and Divorce Act.
14. Trincomalee – Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the D. S.'s Division of
Trincomalee Town, Gravets and Morawewa in Trincomalee
District under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce
Act.
15. Udathalawinna (Uda, Meda and Pahatha Dumbara) –
Applications are called by the Judicial Service Commission
for the Post of Quazi in the Revenue Divisions of Udu
Dumbara, Meda Dumbara and Pahatha Dumbara in Kandy
District under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce
Act.
16. Udunuwara – Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Revenue Division of
Udunuwara in Kandy District under (Chapter 15) the Muslim
Marriage and Divorce Act.
17. Valachchenai (Koralaipattu) – Applications are called by the
Judicial Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in the
Revenue Division of Koralipattu East (Except the
Oddamawadi) in Batticaloa District under (Chapter 15) the
Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
18. V avunia – Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Division of
Vavunia under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce
Act.
19. Kalpitiya – Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the D. S.'s Division of
Kalpitiya in Puttalam District under (Chapter 15) the Muslim
Marriage and Divorce Act.
20. Harispattuwa and Poojapitiya – Applications are called by
the Judicial Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in the
D. S.'s Division of Harispattuwa and Poojapitiya in Kandy
District under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce
Act.
21. Horana – Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Division of
Horana under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce
Act.
22. Gampha – Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the D. S.'s Division of
Gampaha, Attanagalla, Mirigama and Mahara in Gampaha
District under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce
Act.
23. Koddiyarpattu (Muttur) – Applications are called by the
Judicial Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in the
Revenue Division of Koddiyarpattu in Trincomalee District
under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
24. Jaffna – Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Division of
Jaffna, Point-Pedro and Kayts under (Chapter 15) the Muslim
Marriage and Divorce Act.
25. Karaiwahupattu North (Kalmunai) – Applications are called
by the Judicial Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in
the D. S.'s Division of Kalmunai in Ampara District under
(Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
26. Irakkamam – Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in Varipathanchenai,
Oddipuram, Ameeralipuram, Unit 10A, Unit 11A,
Nallawanthimalai and Irakkamam Gramasevaka Division No.
01 to 09 in the Judicial Division of Akkaraipattu under
(Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
27. Negombo – Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Zone of
Negombo under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce
Act.
08-886

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
1707
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO  THE  POST  OF  ASSITANT
CONTROLLER  OF  EXPLOSIVES – 2012
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to the
posts of Assistant Controller of Explosives. Number of post to be filled is seven.
1. In this notice “Secretary” means the “Secretary to the Ministry of Defence and Urban Development”.
2. Written Examination.- The Examination will consist of following question papers :-
(i) Essay and Precis (General Awareness) ;
(ii) General Intelligence ;
(iii) Applied Chemistry.
Date of Examination.- This examination will be held in Colombo in December, 2012. Commissioner General of Examinations
reserves the right to postpone or cancel this examination subject to instructions given by the Public Service Commission.
General Interview.- The Secretary will decide the date for interview for the candidates who sat for all the papers in the written
examination and obtained a higher aggregate of marks as determined by the Public Service Commission.
3. Number of persons to be appointed and effective date of appointment will be determined as per the orders of the Public
Service Commission.
4. Conditions of Service.- A selected candidate will be appointed to the post of assistant controller of explosives on the general
conditions governing appointments in the Public Service and on the terms and conditions set out in the Minute of Service published in the
Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,589/30 of 20th February, 2009 provisions stipulated under
the explosive Act, No. 21 of 17th February, 1956 provisions stipulated under the Public Administration Circular 7/2007, provisi ons
stipulated under the Public Administration Circular 20/2001 and provisions stipulated under the Establishments Code.
5. Salary Scale.- According to Public Administration Circular 6/2006 of 25.04.2006.
SL-1-2006 – Rs. 22,935 – 10x645 -8x790-17x 1,050 – Rs. 53,555 (monthly salary).
The appointments through this examination will be made to the Class III of the Assistant Controller of Explosives.
6. Qualifications.- A candidate appearing for this should :-
(a) Educational qualifications :-
(i) Posses a special degree with a class including chemistry as s subject obtained from a university recognized by the
University Grants Commission ; or
(ii) Posses a science degree with a first class or a second class upper including chemistry as a subject obtained from
a university recognized by the University Grants Commission ; or
(iii) Posses a general science degree including chemistry as a subject and a postgraduate diploma in chemistry obtained
from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission ; or
(iv) Chartered Member of the Institute of Chemistry ;
(v) Internal Candidates :-
Posses a science degree including chemistry as a subject obtained from a university recognized by the University
Grants Commission and being an officer attached to Ministry of Defence and Urban Development with 05 years
uninterrupted, satisfactory service record in field of explosives under the supervision of controler of explosives.
Note.- Condition on 6( a)(v) is valid only for officers who are employed on 23.03.2012 as enforcement officers
attached to the Ministry of Defence and Urban Development, under the supervision of controller of explosives.
(b) Physical fitness. - Every candidate should be physically fit in all aspects to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
1708
(c) Health and Character.- A candidate must satisfy the Secretary that he is duly qualified respect of health and that he has
an excellent moral character. He must possess good eye sight and be physically fit for service in any part of the island.
Selected candidate's will be called upon to undergo a medical examination.
(d) Other qualifications :
(i) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Should be of sound and moral character ;
(iii) No person ordained in any religious sect shall be permitted to sit this examination ;
(iv) A person will be deemed as qualified to sit the Competitive Examination for appointment to the service, if the
candidate has fulfilled necessary qualifications in paragraph 6( a) to the closing date of application. Copies of
certificates in support of qualifications should be attached to the application.
(e) Age.- Candidate should not be less than 21 years and not more than 35 years as at 30.09.2012 (date prior to closing date
of applications).
(The upper age limit will not apply for internal applicants and officers already in the Government/Provincial Services).
7. Examination fee.- The fee is Rs. 1,000. It should be paid before the closing date of applications at any District Secretariat/
Divisional Secretariat to be credited to revenue head 2003-02-13. The receipt obtain from the District Secretariat/Divisional S ecretariat
should be pasted in the relevant cage of the application form. The fee is non refundable. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt
with the candidate.
8. Method of Application :
(a) The application should be in the form of the specimen appended to this notification and should be prepared by the
candidate himself on paper of size 8 ½" x 12" (A4) using both sides. It should be specially noted that the application
forms should be so prepared that cages 1.0 to 2.12 appear on the first side, of the paper and cages 3.0 to 8.0 appear in
the other side of the paper. Application that do not comply with the specimen and that are not completed in every
aspect, shall be rejected without notice. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the application with candidate). It is the
responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the application form perfected by him/her self complies with the
specimen given in the examination notice as otherwise the application may be rejected.
(b) The application shold be in the language medium in which the candidate intends to sit the examination.
(c) the completed application form for the examination should be sent by registered post to reach the Commissioner
General of Examinations, Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or before 01.10.2012. The words
"Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to the posts of Assistant Controller of Explosives – 2012" should be
clearly indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application. Any application received after
the closing date will not be accepted. It is essential to mention the name of examination in English Language as well, in
applications prepared in both Sinhala and Tamil Media.
(d) Officers who are already in the Public Service should forward their application to the Commissioner General of
Examinations through their Head of the Department.
(e) Candidate's signature in the application form should have been attested by a Principal of a Government School, a
Justice of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, Commissioned officer in the Armed Forces,
an officer holding a gazetted post in the Police Service or an Officer holding a permanent post in Public Service whose
annual initial salary is more than Rs. 240,360.
(f) Any application which is not complete in every aspect, is liable to be rejected. No complaint that an application has
been lost or delayed in post will be considered.
(g) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. A notice will be published in the newspapers by the Department of
Examinations as soon as admission cards are issued to applicants. If the admission card is not received before 07 days
of the examination, steps should be taken to notify the Commissioner General of Examinations, Department of
Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla with the following particulars :
1. Name of the Examination,
2. Full name of the applicant,

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
1709
3. Address,
4. Date of posting of application, post office and registered number.
9. Admission to the Examination :
(a) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue admission cards to all persons whose applications have been
received. A candidate presenting himself for the examination must produce his admission card in which his signature has
been attested to the supervisor of the examination center. A candidate who fails to produce his admission card will not
be permitted to sit the examination.
(b) A candidate must sit the examination at the examination hall assigned to him. Every candidate must get his signature
attested in advance and handover the admission card to the supervisor on the first day he presents himself for the
examinations. A set of rules to be observed by all candidates is published at the beginning of Gazette. Candidates are
subjected to rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on conducting the examination
and they are liable to be subjected to a punishment imposed by him/her for breach of these rules.
Note.– The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite qualifications
to sit the examination.
10. Identity of Candidates. – A candidate will be required to prove his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject he offers. For this purpose, any of the following documents will be accepted.
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid passport issued by the Department of Immigration and Emigration.
11. Penalty for furnishing false information.– If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at
any stage prior to, during or after the examination. If it is found that a candidate has furnished information with knowledge t hat they are
false or if he has willfully suppressed any material fact, he will be liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
12. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be dealt with as determined by the Secretary subject to the instructions
given by the Public Service Commission.
13. Scheme and medium of Examination :–
(a) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English. The language medium of examination indicated initially shall
not be allowed to change subsequently ;
(b) A candidate should sit the examination in the language in which he passed the qualified degree examination or in an
official language ;
(c) A candidate who has passed subject at the qualified degree examination in more than one language should sit the
examination in the language in which he passed the majority of subjects at such examination or in an official language.
(d) Candidate with a special degree who has passed the principle subject in one language and the subsidiary subject in
another language should sit the examination in the language in which he passed the principle subject or in an official
language.
Note :–
(i) The term "qualifying degree" in ( b) and (c) above refers to the degree qualifications referred to in Paragraph 6( a) ;
(ii) A candidate must answer all the questions in every question paper of the examination in the same language ;
(iii) A candidate will not be permitted to change the language medium of the examination, indicated in the application.
14. Method of selection.– Written Examination on the following subjects :
Question Paper Duration Total Marks Pass Marks
01. Essay and Precis (General Awareness) 02 hours 100 40
02. General Intelligence 01 hour 100 40
03. Applied Chemistry 02 hours 100 40

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
1710
"Only candidate's who secured a minimum of 40% marks in each subject at the written examination will be determined by the
order of merit obtained by the candidate at the written examination and according to the number of existing vacancies, will be
summoned for an interview to determine their qualification". (No marks are given at the interview).
15. Syllabus :
(i) Essay and Precis This paper consists of two parts. The first part requires to write an essay and
(General Awareness) precis. The second part consists of phrases to judge the applicants knowledge in
Duration 02 hours the language. The applicants are required to explain the meaning of the word
100 marks underlined, using only one sentence or describe in detail or select the more suitable
answer from a given group of answers or to find the correct answer from a given
group of answers.
(ii) General Intelligence To assess the candidate's inferences and responses to problems presented in verbal,
Duration 01 hour numerical and spatial contexts, subject wise objective type test paper to measure
100 marks the candidate's capacity for conceptualization, critical reasoning and judgmental
ability.
(iii) Applied Chemistry To judge the knowledge on Sri Lankan Geographic position, distribution of minerals
Duration 02 hours effects on chemistry on economic development, explosives properties and its use,
100 marks explosives Act 21 of 17th February, 1956 and regulations No. 33 of 1969, No. 36 of
1976, No. 14 of 1978, No. 18 of 2005 and amendments.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the notice publish in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, the notice published
in Sinhala medium shall prevail.
17. Any matter not provided for in these regulations, No. of candidates to be recruited from the examination will be dealt with
as determined by the Public Service Commission and that decision is final.
On the order of Public Service Commission,
G
OTABA Y A RAJAPAKSA, RWP/RSP/psc.,
Secretary,
Ministry of Defence and Urban Development.
Colombo 03,
No. 15/5, Baladaksha Mawatha,
Ministry of Defence and Urban Development.
Specimen Form of Application
(For office use only)
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  THE  RECRUITMENT TO  THE  POST  OF  ASSISTANT
 CONTROLLER  OF  EXPLOSIVES – 2012
 1.0 Medium :
Language medium of examination :
Sinhala – 2,  Tamil – 3,  English – 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.0 Personal Information :
2.1 Name with initials :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals) Eg.– (SILV A, A. B.)
2.2 Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
1711
2.3 Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.4 Permanent Address (In English Block Capitals) :––––––––––––.
(Admission card will be posted to this address)
2.5 Permanent Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.6 Sex : (Male  – 0,  Female – 1)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.7 Civil Status :
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage) (Unmarried  – 1,  Married  – 2)
2.8 Ethnic Group :
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(Sinhala - 1,  Tamil  2,  Indian Tamil - 3,  Muslim - 4,  Others - 5)
2.9 National Identity Card No. :
2.10 Date of Birth : Y ear : Month : Day :
2.11 Age as at the closing date of applications : Years : Months : Days :
2.12 Telephone No. :
3.0 (i) Effective date of the highest degree :––––––––––––.
(Please read Para 6(a) of the notification carefully to see whether you are qualified in this respect)
(ii) Univeristy/Institute :––––––––––––.
(iii) Registration Number :––––––––––––.
(iv) Degree :––––––––––––.
(v) Subjects :––––––––––––.
(vi) Calss :––––––––––––.
(vii) Upper/Lower :––––––––––––.
(viii) Index Number :––––––––––––.
(ix) Language Medium of Examination :––––––––––––.
4.0 Total service period : (If applicable)
Department served Post Duration Annual
From                      To Salary
5.0 Paste the cash receipt properly :
(Paste the receipt here securely)
(It would be advisable to keep a photocopy with the candidate)
(i) Number :––––––––––––. (iii) Place of payment :––––––––––––.
(ii) Date :––––––––––––. (iv) Amount paid : Rs. :––––––––––––.
6.0 Declaration of the Candidate :
I declare that information given in this form is true to the best of my knowledge and belief and I have affixed the receipt
No. ................. dated ....................... being the payment of the examination fee. I also agree to be bound by the r ules governing the
examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior to, during or after the examination, if it is found that

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
1712
I am ineligible according to the regulations of this examination. Further, I agree to be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by
Commissioner - General of Examinations as conducting of the exam.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
7.0 Attestation of the applicant's signature : (Para 8( e) of the Gazette Notification) :
I hereby certify that .............................. (Full name) who submits this application is known to me personally, that h e/she has
paid the prescribed examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt herein. He/She placed his/her signature in my presence on .....................
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer Attesting the Signature.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer Attesting the Signature :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(Official Stamp)
8.0 Certificate of the Head of Department (For internal applicants) :
The applicant ................................. is currenlty employed at this Department/Provincial Council/Institution. His se rvice is
pensionable/temporary. The applicant has earned all the increments and has not been accused of any disciplinary inquiry (other than
warnings). He will be/not released from the present position once selected for the above post.
––––––––––––––,
Department/Institution Authorized Officer's Signature.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
Position :––––––––––––.
Department/Institution :––––––––––––.
(Official Stamp)
08–857
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.