

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … ––
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … 1948
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"246 – 2021 iema;eïn¾ ui 17 jeks isl=rdod – 2021'09'17
No. 2,246 –  FRIDAY,  SEPTEMBER  17,  2021
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th October, 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 24th September, 2021.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2021.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1945 - B 82269 - 5,403 (09/2021)      
N. B.–   (i) Part IV(A) and IV(B) of the Gazette No. 2,245 of 10.09.2021 were not published.
 
Note.–    (i) Youthful Offenders (Training Schools)  (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the 
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 10, 2021.
 (ii) Penal Code (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 10, 2021.
 

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'17
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2021
1946
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'17
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2021
1947
RULES AND INSTRUCTIONS FOR EXAMINATION CANDIDATES
All examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations Act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
The following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the Sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations Act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the Commissioner General Examinations.
All examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
 I. Debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 II. Disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 III. Imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the Department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka.
 IV . Debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the Department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . Issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations Act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 VIII. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
The Commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. Moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. Also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. Actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective Index Number and not any other seat. Unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. Absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. A candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s Index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
Further, writing other examination candidate’s Index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing Index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. Acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. Any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. It is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. If a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. It is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. All such materials are belonged to the Commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. Also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. In case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the Commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. After sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. In case the supervisor or the examination staff  
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. Breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. It is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. Also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ She shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. Impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. Tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 I. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 II. It is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) Actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 IV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like Bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 VI. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 VII. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the Index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. You should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. You should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 VIII. The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. Since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. Actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 IX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. The 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. You should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. Marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 XI. At the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
Make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. Any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 XII. Your answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. Failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 XIII. If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
Commissioner General of the Examinations.
At the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'17
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2021
1948
Posts – Vacant
V ACANCIES EXIST IN THE SRI LANKA 
VOLUNTEER AIR FORCE FOR AIRMEN/
AIR WOMEN IN THE TRADES ARE GIVEN 
BELOW AS DIRECT ENTRY
1. V ACANCIES exist in the V olunteer Force of the Sri 
Lanka Air Force for Airmen / Airwomen in the Trades given 
below and the required minimum and specific qualifications 
are stated against
2. Trades & Educational, Professional Qualifications 
Required:-
a. General Engineering Trade. 
 (1) Operator Motor Transport (Male)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including a Simple (S) pass in Sinhala / Tamil 
language. Pass the driving test conducted by 
the Sri Lanka Air Force (Possession of a valid 
light vehicle driving license is essential and 
priority will be given to possession of a valid 
heavy vehicle driving licence is respectively.) 
 (2) Surface Technician (Male)
   Passed G.C.E.O/L (Minimum 6 passes 
including English Language and Mathematics) 
Priority will be given to candidates with 
G.C.E. A/L  qualification with Chemistry as a 
subject with minimum “S” pass.
   Completed Lab Assistant Training programme 
conducted at Institute of Chemistry of Sri 
Lanka or Lab Technology related course 
at a government  institution or government 
registered private institution or Equivalent 
qualification One year or above in related 
field.
 b. Administrative Trade – Administrative 
Assistant (Stenographers)Male /Female 
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including a Credit (C) pass in Sinhala / Tamil 
/ English language.
  If the post applied for is ‘Sinhala Stenographer’ 
such applicant should have a credit pass for 
the subject of Sinhala in GCE O/L.
  If the post applied for is ‘English Stenographer’ 
such applicant should have a credit pass for 
the subject of English in GCE O/L.
  If the post applied for is ‘Tamil Stenographer’ 
such applicant should have a credit pass for 
the subject of Tamil in GCE O/L.
  Candidates should have successfully followed 
and passed a stenography and typing course at 
the National Youth Services Council, National 
Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority, 
Technical College or at a Government 
Registered training institution and minimum 
of 06 months experience in relevant field.
 
3. Other Requirements: - 
 a. Candidates must fulfil the following general 
conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka  
V olunteer Air Force: -
 (1) Nationality - Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (2) Age as at 15 December 2021
   Not less than 18 years and not more than 30 
years (Male / Female)
 (3) Height  - 5 feet 5 inches (165.0 cm) and 
above (Male)
  5 feet 3 inches (160.0 cm) and above 
(Female)
 (4) Weight : - 17 < BMI > 26 (Male)
        17 < BMI > 25 (Female)
    Weight (Kg) 
  Body Mass Index =  –––––––––– 
    Height2 (m)
 (5) Vision Colour Standard: CP2
 (6) Visual Acuity: 6/6 each eye (without 
spectacles and lens)
 (7) Chest: Not less than 32" (Male)
 (8) Civil Status:  Married / Unmarried
 
 (a) Unmarried Direct Entry Airmen / Airwomen  
are not allowed to marry until the 01 year 
period from the date of enlistment.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'17
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2021
1949
4. Candidates who do not possess the required educational 
qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 01 to 02 
will be rejected.  On arrival for the first interview the height, 
weight, chest and vision will be measured.  Candidates 
whose height, weight, chest and vision are below the 
standard specified in the Gazette Notification and who have 
no exceptional skills will not be interviewed. Any candidate 
who has special ability / qualifications may at the discretion 
of the Commander of the Air Force be considered, even 
though he  does not have the pre requisite on any of above, 
provided that he  possess the requisite of the Professional/ 
Special qualifications for the best interest of the Sri Lanka 
Air Force.
5. Due consideration will be given to outstanding 
achievements in the field of sports.
6. Conditions of Service: - 
 a. The candidate is to initially enlist in the Air Force 
as an Airmen/Airwomen volunteer engagement 
and will undergo a Basic Combat Training 
Course. On successful completion of training, the 
duration of which will depend on the Trade, the 
status allocated on his /her enlistment as an Other 
Rank.
 b. Airmen will be required to undergo training at a 
place in Sri Lanka or abroad as decided by the 
Commander of the Air Force in consultation with 
the Ministry of Defence.
 c. During the period of training as Airmen / 
Airwomen and thereafter, personnel will be 
subject to Air Force Law.
 d. Every Airmen / Airwomen will be provided 
all items of uniforms, equipment and medical 
facilities.
 e. During the period of training, an Airmen / 
Airwomen will be accommodated in an Air Force 
Mess and will be provided with food.
 f. In the event of a Airmen / Airwomen voluntarily 
terminating his candidature during training, the 
parent or guardian will be required to refund to 
the Republic of Sri Lanka all expenses incurred 
up to that time by the Republic of Sri Lanka on 
account of such Airmen/ Airwomen.
  
 g. If at any time during his course a Airmen/ 
Airwomen is reported by the authorities as 
being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or 
due to causes within his/her control to qualify 
for a commission, his parent or guardian will 
be required to refund to the Sri Lanka Air Force 
all expenses incurred on his training and will be 
required to enter into a bond to this effect with the 
Commander of the Air Force acting on behalf of 
the Government of Sri Lanka.
      
 h. Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given 
in cage 28 of the application form in respect of sub 
paragraphs (f) and (g) above, and forward them 
together with the application. Parent or guardian 
will be required to enter in to a bond subsequently 
in this form with the Republic of   Sri Lanka prior 
to the appointment of these candidates as Airmen.
 j. Candidates who possess the requirement as per 
para 1 to 4 will be called for the Preliminary 
Interview and if successful will be called for 
Medical Examinations and all candidates selected 
will be medically and physically examined under 
Sri Lanka Air Force arrangements to check the 
suitability in par with the Sri Lanka Air Force 
Medical fitness standards. Candidates who 
successfully complete these tests will be called 
for the are enlistment. The required number of 
candidates per Trade will be selected according 
to merit at these interviews and tests.
 k. A single airman is required to live in the Airmen 
barracks. He /She is provided with furnished 
accommodation and food. A single Airmen’s 
ration allowance is paid to the Mess.
 l. A married Airmen /Airwomen may be provided 
with a married quarter if available. Recovery of 
rental will be as applicable to public servants. 
 m. All Airmen / Airwomen are liable to be posted for 
duty or training in any part of the world at any 
time.
 n. All Airmen / Airwomen are governed by the Air 
Force Act and orders issued from time to time.
7. Terms of Engagement: - 
 
 a. Volunteer Airmen / Air women Administrative 
Trade–Administrative Assistant (Stenographers). 
  Selected candidates will be enlisted to the third 
class of the rank of Aircraftsman /Aircraftswoman 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'17
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2021
1950
in the V olunteer Air Force and shall be required to serve for two (02) years. Opportunities exist for suitable to 
extend for further service on completion of two (02) years of service on the discretion of the Commander of the 
Sri Lanka Air Force.
 b. Volunteer Airmen Operator Motor Transport and Surface Technician.
  Selected candidates will be enlisted to the third class of the rank of Aircraftsman /Aircraftswoman in the V olunteer 
Air Force and shall be required to serve for five (05) years. Opportunities exist for suitable to extend for further 
service on completion of five (05) years of service on the discretion of the Commander of the Sri Lanka Air Force.
8. Official Language Requirements.  The selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules already made 
or may hereafter be made for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Republic of Sri Lanka and in particular for 
implementing the provisions the Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
9. Pay and Allowances. 
a. It is to be noted that all consolidated salaries including allowances indicated below are the initial step of particular 
rank.
Rank Con Pay
Rs. cts.
Total Allowances + Ration 
Allowance 
Rs. cts.
Gross salary
Rs. cts.
Air Craftsman 29,540.00 12,150.00+19,995.00 61,685.00
Leading Aircraftsman 30,440.00 12,150.00+19,995.00 62,585.00
Corporal 31,340.00 12,150.00+19,995.00 63,485.00
Note: Married living-out personnel are entitled for ration allowance of approximately Rs. 20,000.00 and 
applicable rent ceiling.  
b. Pensions/Gratuities. Payable in terms of the Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended 
from time to time. All Airmen/ Airwomen are contributors to the Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Force) 
Scheme. Rate of contributions are as per Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations 
1970.
10. Instructions to Applicants. 
a. Applications should be submitted in applicants own handwriting in terms of the from specified below. All cages 
of the application should be filled with much detail as possible. Applications should be sent by registered post 
addressed to “COMMAND RECRUITING OFFICER, SRI LANKA AIR FORCE TRADE TRAINING 
SCHOOL, KOTUGODA” so as to reach there not later than 1200 noon on 01 October 2021. The Envelope 
enclosing the application should be marked “APPLICATION FOR VOLUNTEER AIRMEN/AIRWOMEN” 
on the top left corner. Applications received at Sri Lanka Air Force, Kotugoda after closing date and time and 
not in accordance with the requirement of this notification and not in registered post will not be considered.
b. Candidates who are in Government Service/ Corporations/ Boards/ Civil Establishments should forward their 
Applications through their Heads of Departments / Corporations/ Boards/Civil Establishments and should bear 
a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
c. Candidates will be required to produce the originals with certified photo copy of the following documents when 
summoned for interviews or when called upon to do so.
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth and a photo copy. (Certificate issued for the purpose of the education 
code will not be accepted).

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'17
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2021
1951
(2) National Identity Card and a photo copy.
(3) Original certificates in support of the educational qualifications required for the branch applied and photo 
copies.
(4) Certificates of trade / technical training and / or experience (if any) obtained from a recognized institution 
and photo copies.
(5) Two recent certificates of character (within 06 months obtained). One of these should be from the Principal 
of the last school attended and the other from a responsible person who knows the applicant for more than 
two years or from the present employer (if employed).
(6) Original certificates in support of sports activities and Extra Curricular activities and photo copies.
(7)  A plain folder with file tag.
(8)  A colour photo of 2x2½ inches certified by the GS.
       
d. Applications of candidates who fail to produce documents when requested to do so will not be considered.
e. No documents or original copies of documents should be attached to the application form.
f. The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any originals of certificates if enclosed with the application 
form.
11. Preliminary selections will be made amongst those candidates who fulfil the above conditions. Candidates so selected 
will be required to undergo tests as may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. Candidates considered suitable 
for the interview will be required to appear for an interview at their own expense before an Air Force Recruiting Board. Such 
Candidates will be informed individually of place, Date and time. 
12. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for interviews, he  is to produce the National Identity Card. Candidates 
who do not have the National Identity Card could produce some other form of the accepted identification. However, no 
candidates will be enlisted without the National Identity Card.
13.     All Candidates who are selected is required to undergo a medical screening test and a physical fitness test as per 
Sri Lanka Air Force Medical and Fitness Standard during the selection process.
14. The required number of candidates per trade will be selected according to high marks merit at these interviews and 
tests.
15. Anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his testimonial. Any form of canvassing or 
attempt to influence the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such candidates
16. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
 SK Pathirana,
 WWV and Bar, RWP and Bar, RSP and three Bars, VSV , USP, MSc (MOA)  
 USA, MSc (Def Stu) in Mgt, M Phil (Ind), MIM (SL), ndc (Ind), psc, qfi
 Air Marshal,
 Commander of The Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
PO Box 594,
Colombo.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'17
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2021
1952
APPLICATION FOR AIRMEN /AIRWOMEN IN THE
…………………………………..TRADE OF THE SRI LANKA AIR FORCE
01. Nationality: - ………………………………………………………………………….
 (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
02. Full Name (As per the National Identity Card): ……………………….....……………
03. National Identity Card Number: - ……………………………………………………...
04. Permanent address ……………………………………………………………………...
05.  Postal address: - …………………………………………………………………….......
06. Date of birth:- …………………. 
 (Age as at 15 Dec. 2021) : Years:…..............….Months:........………Days:………………
07. Height: - …………cm    (………..feet ……….inches)
 
08. Nearest Police Station to permanent address: - ……………………………………….
09. District:-……………………………………………………………………….………
10. Electorate: -………………………………………………….…………………………
11. GS Division: - ………………………………………………………………………… 
12. Telephone number: - ………………………………………..…………………………
13. Married or Single:- ……………………………………………………………………
14. Gender : - …………………………………………..........……………………………
15. School Attended:-…………………………………………………………………….
16. Particulars of School qualifications obtained:-
Name of School Type of examination Year and Index number of 
the  examination
Subjects passed      
(including grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Other
17. Particulars of employment since leaving School: - (if applicable) :
Name and address of employer Nature of employment Period of service
From To
                        

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'17
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2021
1953
18. Particulars of parents:-
Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present address
Father
Mother
19. Any special qualification for the post : - …………………………………………..........………....……………………
20. Details of current achievements in sports (Give details of teams and competitions participated with dates / years etc. and 
standards / levels achieved) : - …………………………………………..............................……………………………
21. Other achievements of note at School or with outside organizations (Give details with dates / years etc.):-...................
22. Any previous service in the Armed Force or V olunteer Force, Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization:-........................
23. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and 
the outcome of such applications:-......................................................................................................................................
24. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military court, if so give details:-..................................................
25. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the Public Sector / Board / Corporation (including the Central 
Bank, National Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled by the Government etc.) reasons for termination 
of employment:-.................................................................................................................................................................
26. Particulars of testimonials:-
Name Designation Postal Address
27.  Declaration to be signed by the applicant:-
 I, declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and 
belief. I have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of 
those candidates who are selected for Commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published in the Gazette of the Republic 
of Sri Lanka.
 ………………………..
 Signature of Applicant.
Date…………..     
28. Declaration to be signed by the Parent or Guardian of the applicant:
(a)  I am the Parent / Guardian of………………who is an applicant for a Airmen/ Airwomen in the Sri Lanka Air Force 
and who has signed the declaration in cage 27 of the form of application above. 
(b) I hereby undertake to be responsible in the event above named applicant being selected for a course of training for 
the following.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'17
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2021
1954
(1) To refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of the above named applicant voluntarily terminating his / 
her candidature during his / her period of training all expenses incurred up to that time by the Republic of Sri 
Lanka on account of such applicant.
(2) To refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of the above named applicant reported on by the authorities 
as being unsuitable (For reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his / her own control) for the continuation 
of service all the expenses incurred on his / her account by the Republic of Sri Lanka.
   …………………………...….
   Signature of Parent /Guardian.
Date………………………..
Name………………………
    (in block capitals)
Address……………………
 ……………………………..    
 Signature of First Witness.
  
Date………………………..
Name………………………
    (in block capitals)
Address……………………
 
 ………………………………..
 Signature of Second Witness.
Date………………………..
Name………………………
    (in block capitals)
Address……………………
 ………………………………..
 Signature of Applicant.
09–197
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.