

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2017
w;s úfYI
wxl 2037$20 - 2017 iema;eïn¾ ui 21 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2017'09'21
No. 2037/20 -  THURSDAY  SEPTEMBER  21,  2017
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
1A - PG  3696 — 57  (09/2017)
NORTH   CENTRAL   PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Regulations of Education Statute No. 02 of 1990
EDUCATION   STATUTE   No. 02  OF  1990   OF  THE   NORTH   CENTRAL  PROVINCE
AS the Chief Minister and Minister in charge of Law and Order, Finance and Planning, Local Government, Rural
Infrastructure Facilities and Special Projects, Tourism, Education, Information Technology, Engineering and Culture of
North Central Province, I hereby announce that the following regulations are enforced by me under Section 12 of the
Education Statute No. 02 of 1990 of the North Central Province.
PESHALA JAYARA THNE BANDARA,
Chief Minister and Minister of Education.
At the Chief Minister’s Office,
On the date of 01 of September, 201 7.
REGULATIONS
01. Providing Facilities to Provincial Schools.
I. For every school of the North Central Province, there shall be a main plan relating to the structure. Under
this plan, location of buildings of the school, how each section is located under each building and proposed
changes for future improvements shall specifically be illustrated therein.
II. The document relating to the carder, which has been approved by the Provincial Ministry and which
contains information on the number of students of the relevant school, approved number of academic and
non-academic staff and shall be displayed within the main administrative unit to be conspicuous to everyone.
III. The Principal shall take strict measures to maintain the carder as per the said document.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2017
2A
IV . The Principal, in collaboration with the School Development Society shall identify all the physical and
human resource requirements for his school as per the school categorization and such requirements shall
be informed to the Provincial Director of Education through the Zonal director of Education.
02. School-Supervision Affairs
I. School-supervision affairs should be carried out quantitatively and efficiently, wherein, provisions stated
in here shall be put into operation.
II. An annual plan shall be prepared by each Divisional Education Director to supervise schools within his
Division. Such plan should be handed over in advance to the Principal of every school of his Division with
a copy to the Zonal Director of Education and the supervision affairs shall be conducted according to that
plan.
III. The following mentioned sections of every school shall be supervised separately.
(a) Teaching affairs of school
(b) Teachers’ and students’ attendance
(c) Term notes, textbook use
(d) Affairs of the School Development Society
(e) School environment (school specifications)
(f) Achievement of relevant subject-related and extracurricular targets
(g) School’s Financial Control
(h) Teachers’ and students’ Performance levels
IV . All the relevant officers should take measures to conduct the supervision activities in a manner covering
all the existing sections and notes should be kept in the service diary about such supervision activities.
V. The Instruction manual and standards introduced by the Education Ministry and Provincial Ministry of
Education should be adopted in relation to school-supervision.
VI. In addition to this plan relating to schools, the Divisional Directors should conduct emergency inspection
affairs on schools. Such emergency inspections should cover every school once during each academic
term.
VII. Zonal Directors of Education should supervise duties of all the Divisional Directors of his Zone. An annual
plan in that regard should be prepared. In addition to this, emergency inspections should be carried out.
VIII. The Zonal Director of Education, after preparing the supervision plan for the oncoming year and subsequent
to obtaining the prior approval of the Minister in charge of the subject, shall serve such plan to all the
Principals through Zonal and Divisional Directors of Education prior to 15th of November of the relevant
year.
IX. Provincial Director of Education shall annually prepare a plan to supervise Zones and Divisions. In addition
to that, emergency supervisions should be carried out when and where necessary.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2017
03. Recruitment of Persons to Teachers’ Service and other affiliated services
I Provincial authorities should take action in accordance to provisions stated under Chapter 17 of the
Constitution and provisions stated under Clause 32 of the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987 amended
by Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act No. 28 of 1990.
II Recruitments shall be made as per approved Teachers’ Service Minutes of North Central Province, when
recruiting to the Teachers’ Service and as per relevant recruitment procedures with regard to the other
services.
III With regard to the teachers who are appointed on the basis of secondment to the Provincial Public Service,
recruitments shall be made by the provincial authority subjected to the limitations imposed by the written
law relevant to such appointment.
I V Measures should be taken compulsorily to fill the vacancies existing in remote or critically remote schools
when recruiting teachers. She/He shall serve in such school at least for three years.
04. Placing Principals
I When placing a Principal who has been released to the Provincial Council, he shall be attached to a vacant
position taking into consideration about his seniority, talent and skills displayed.
II When a Principal’s post becomes vacant in a school, having called applications from the graded Principals
of the Province and after interviewing them, the officer with highest qualifications and who obtained the
highest merits, shall be appointed to that position.
III However, when a Principal’s post of a school becomes vacant accidentally, the above mentioned provisions
shall not obstruct the appointment of a Principal temporarily to the said position until a graded Principal is
appointed permanently.
I V The Interview Board to select a Principal for a vacant Principal’s post shall comprise of following mentioned
persons.
(a) Secretary to the Provincial Ministry of Education
(b) Provincial Director of Education
(c) Zonal Director of Education of the zone in which the relevant school is situated
(d) Additional Director of Education (Administration)
V Annual Principals’ transfers should be conducted by the Provincial Public Service Commission.
05. Transfers and disciplinary control of all the persons relevant to the Education field
Transfers and disciplinary control of all the officers relevant to the education field shall be performed as per
provisions of the Constitution, Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987 as well as according to Procedural Rules of
Provincial Public Service of North Central Province.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2017
4A
06. Preparation of the Provincial Education Development Plan
I According to the proposals of Divisional and Zonal Directors of Education, the Provincial Education
Development Plan shall be prepared by the Provincial Department of Education prior to thirty first (31) of
October of the previous year and it shall be a three year plan. Secretary of the Provincial Education
Ministry shall obtain approval for this prepared three year plan  after forwarding it to the Minister in charge
of the subject of Provincial Education.
II In compliance to the three year Provincial Education Development Plan, having prepared an annual Education
Development Plan per each calendar year, it shall be forwarded to the Secretary of the Provincial Education
Ministry by the Provincial Director of Education prior to 30th November of each previous year and along
with the Secretary’s recommendations, approval of the relevant Minister in charge of the subject should be
obtained for the said Development Plan.
III According to the exact dates stated in the Divisional and Zonal Pre-Development Plan, the said plan
should be forwarded by the Provincial Director of Education to the Ministry’s Secretary for approval.
07. Implementing Education Development Plans at Zonal, Divisional and school level.
I In accordance to the approved three-year and annual Provincial Development Plans, three-year and annual
Zonal Education Development Plans for each Zone should be prepared by Zonal Directors of Education as
per instructions of the Provincial Director of Education.
II In accordance to the approved three-year and annual Provincial Development Plans, three-year and annual
Divisional Education Development Plans for each Division should be prepared by Divisional Directors of
Education as per instructions of the Zonal Director of Education.
III In accordance to the approved three-year and annual Provincial Development Plans, three-year and annual
Education Development Plans for each school  should be prepared by the Principal with representations
from the School Development Society and as per instructions of the Divisional Director of Education.
I V Annual Development Plans and three-year Development Plans prepared at school level shall be forwarded
to the Zonal Director of Education prior to 15th November and 31st October respectively and after obtaining
his approval, the Principal shall implement them within the school.
V When implementing the Development Plans which operate at Provincial, Zonal, Divisional and School
level, the Provincial Director of Education, Zonal Directors of Education, Divisional Directors of Education
and Principal shall take measures personally to carry on their supervision and  regulation activities relevantly.
08. Staff Evaluation
I Provincial Department of Education shall evaluate Teachers and Principals serving in schools before 15 th of
July in every year.
II When evaluating the performance of the Principal, the Board appointed by the Secretary to the Ministry
shall conduct the evaluation annually to ascertain whether the annual targets assigned to the school by
the Provincial Department of Education has been achieved, how the academic progress of the school is
as a whole, the report relevant to such evaluation should be forwarded to the Secretary.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2017
III Every school shall analyze the marks of first, second and third term examinations of every grade for all
the subjects and the performance and progress of the Teacher teaching each subject shall be based on the
said analysis and on the analysis of results of national examinations, as applicable.
I V The Principal shall hand over this analysis to the Zonal Director of Education at the end of every year
before the third term school- vacation, and the Zonal Director of Education shall,along with the relevant
results analysis, hand over the name-list of teachers to be appreciated to the Provincial Ministry of
Education through the Provincial Director of Education before 30
th January. Subsequent to inquiring about
the accuracy of the documents handed over thus, evaluation of Principals and Teachers should be
conducted as suitable, under the Provincial Ministry of Education prior to 15
th of July in every year.
V A report on whether the results-targets assigned annually by the Provincial Department of Education for
each school have been achieved or not in the relevant year, if not achieved, what reasons have affected
such non-achievement, shall be forwarded to the Secretary before 30th May of the following year.
09. Service Related Training Programs
I Residential trainings shall continuously be conducted for required subjects.
II In addition to the steps taken under the above stated sections, residential training camps should be
conducted for subjects identified additionally.
III The Provincial Director of Education, having called applications for the resource persons for the following
year shall register them prior to 31st December in every year. The persons selected for the resource persons’
reserve should possess post-graduate qualifications for the relevant subject or qualifications equal to that
level.
I V The Provincial Director of Education should take heed to conduct all the teacher training affairs in a manner
not hindering the academic processes of schools.
10. Term Tests
I. In every school, term tests should be held as follows.
(a) First term test to be school based
(b) Second term test to be conducted at Zonal or Provincial level
(c) Final term test to be conducted at Provincial level
II. Supervision committees at school, Zonal and Provincial level should be appointed with regard to
preparation of papers, typing, printing, distribution, preparation of marking sheets and marks analysis of
all term tests.
III. Boards to prepare question papers should be established at Divisional, Zonal and Provincial level before
15
th of December in every year to prepare term test papers. Forming of Question Paper Boards should be a
responsibility of the Additional Provincial Director of Education (Development) and Deputy Provincial
Director of Education (Development), whereas, supervision of all the above mentioned affairs should
be a responsibility of the Provincial Director of Education.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2017
6A
IV . Officers of the committee shall take responsibility with regard to examination inaccuracies.
V . The Committee composition for the term tests held at school level should be approved by the Divisional
Director of Education, Committee composition for the term tests held at Zonal level should be approved by
the Provincial Director of Education, whereas, the Committee composition for the term tests held at Provincial
level should be approved by the Provincial Secretary of Education.
VI. On the previous day to the commencement of term-concluding-holidays, every Principal should take
action to hand over to students the students’ Progress Report which contains marks obtained by a student
for each subject at the term test.
VII. All the above mentioned examination affairs should be performed on the instructions of Deputy Assistant
Director of Education in charge of examination affairs and Provincial Director of education.
11. When deploying Boards of Judges for various competitions held among school children, action must be taken in
the following manner.
I. Selecting a Board of Judges for competitions held in a Division from among academic staff of another
Division or from among veterans of the subject field.
II. For competitions held within the zone, deploying persons serving in other Zones.
III. For Provincial competitions, selecting representatives from the two districts of the province as well as
representatives from another province in equal numbers.
12. Formal, informal and special educational programs
I. When formal and informal educational programs are implemented, the schools of the Province shall take
action as per announcements made in relation to ceremonies and commemorations conducted by the
Ministry of Education at national level.
II. The Provincial Education Director shall take action to issue prior instructions about ceremonies identical
to the province after having included them into the annual calendar and to hold such ceremonies.
III. W ith regard to activities concurrent to the curriculum, action should be taken as per national and provincial
policies, circulars which shall be conducted under the supervision and guidance of the Provincial Director
of Education.
13. Asset Management
I. Where any well-wisher makes a donation to a certain school, it shall be made under the approval of the
Zonal Director of Education and Provincial Director of Education.
II. The Principal of a school shall take measures to properly maintain the school by maintaining all the
buildings and property belonging to the school.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2017
III. W ith regard to teaching aids, teaching equipment, visual aids, audio-video equipment as well as furniture,
computers or any other requirement of a school; receivable on Government or Provincial Council provisions,
such requirements shall be informed before 30 th June of the previous year through Zonal Director of
Education, Provincial Director of Education to the Secretary of the Provincial Ministry of Education.
IV . The Zonal Director shall forward to the Secretary of the Provincial Ministry through the Provincial Director
of Education prior to 30 th June of every year, the requests to obtain teaching equipment, visual aids and
audio-visual equipment for school requirements; equipment required for school laboratories on Government
or Provincial Council provisions and the Provincial Secretary of Education shall take every measure to
distribute the relevant equipment to schools before the termination of first term of the following year.
V. A library should be maintained in every school to be appropriate to the number of students and when and
where possible, a teacher possessing knowledge about Library Science should be deployed as the in
charge therein.
VI. School timetable shall be prepared in a manner ensuring that every child uses the library at least for one
period during a week.
VII. Measures should be taken to conduct Annual Reading Day Competitions at school, Divisional, Zonal and
Provincial level.
14. Determining the boundaries for Divisional, Zonal Education offices shall be decided by the minister after considering
about the recommendations of a committee appointed by the Provincial Minister of Education.
15. Emergency holidays for provincial schools on the basis of public requirements of the Province shall be decided by
the Secretary to the Provincial Ministry of Education.
16. Subsequent to analyzing the examination results, the Principal shall implement educational feedback programs for
backward students and the relevant Divisional and Zonal Director of Education shall supervise them.
17. In collaboration with the Provincial Director of Health Services, the Provincial Director of Education shall plan
medical examinations, treatments, health promotional programs and Provincial Secretary of Education shall regulate
such affairs. A Health Society shall be established within each school.
18. According to the policies and standards presented by the Minister in charge of Education, grading and categorization
of schools of the province and opening up of new schools should be carried out.
19. Conducting tuition classes for students receiving school education in the North Central Province.
I. Institutions conducting external tuition classes for school children shall register under the Provincial
Department of Education and such classes shall be conducted subjected to the criteria for such classes
and decisions issued by the Provincial Director of Education.
II. Up to 14.00 Hours on every school-day and up to 14.00 Hours on every Sunday, on Full Moon Poya
Days as well as on special religious and national festival days, tuition classes for school children in the
North Central Province shall not be held in any way.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2017
8A
III. These regulations are not meant to support the conducting of external tuition classes,instead, they shall
be relevant to maintain student education systematically under disciplined and virtuous behavior and at
the same time, preserving the standards of teaching.
IV . Persons/ institutions conducting private tuition classes to school children by contravening these
regulations or persons supporting such affairs will be considered as offenders under these regulations
and subsequent to presenting before an authorized Court, if found guilty, they shall be punished by
subjecting to a fine of not less than Rs.50,000/- or imprisonment for a period of not less than three
months.
V . If a teacher or a person of the academic staff/ officer of public service is found to have engaged in
teaching in tuition classes having obtained his personal leaves, considering that he/she had made an
offence, the Provincial Director of Education shall report it to the disciplinary authority to take
disciplinary action.
VI. In no way shall tuition classes be conducted for school children before 7.00 a.m. and after 7.00 p.m. in
every day of the week and such holding of classes shall be considered as child abuse/ contravention of
children’s rights.
VII. If it is revealed that certain student is attending tuition classes during school hours without attending
school, the Principal shall take disciplinary action against such student.
VIII. The average of the attendance of students sitting for national examinations should be 80% as per the
national policy and having considered students who have not fulfilled it as students who have not completed
the prescribed syllabus; they shall not be permitted to sit for the examination. These calculations regarding
attendance should be performed at academic term level.
Teacher Transfer Policy of the North Central Province
20. The Teacher Transfer Policy should be implemented in a suitable manner to achieve more productivity to the
education process of the North Central Province as well as for welfare of teachers and students of that province.
21. Implementation of the Teacher Transfer Policy of North Central Province shall accord to provisions of Section
32 of the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987 and provisions consequential to such.
22. When implementing the Teacher Transfer Policy of North Central Province, the following matters should be
objectives of the said policy.
I. As education process should always be student-centered, students’ requirements should be considered
top-most when transferring teachers.
II. Transfers should take place in a manner ensuring confidence on teachers’ professional safety and enabling
the achievement of maximum service satisfaction and service delivery devoid of any unreasonable fears
of unfair teacher transfers.
III. The main objective of the Teacher Transfer Policy is to minimizing irregularities seen in the North
Central Province with regard to education.
IV . Teacher transfers shall be made in a manner of fair distribution of human resources of Teachers’ service
which may be limited to certain Educational Zone, Division or school and enabling the use of such
resources by students of other areas of the Province.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2017
V . Since the improvement of the quality of education relies on teachers’ knowledge and skills, space should
be provided through the Teacher Transfer Policy for teachers to improve their knowledge and skills.
VI. This Policy shall provide for guidance towards maximum efficiency through proper human resource
management of the relevant field in the area.
VII. Except in a situation where a disciplinary action is taken or is about to be taken against certain teacher and
where such disciplinary action is facilitated by a transfer, in all the other occasions, Transfers of the
Teachers’ service shall be based on recommendations of a Teacher Transfer Board established formally.
VIII. T eacher transfers shall always be made by a Teacher Transfer Board established formally except in situations
of disciplinary action being taken against a teacher or such disciplinary action is about to be taken against
a teacher or on urgent and specific situations kindled on service requirement or owing to teachers’ requests
on health conditions or on spouse’s transfer or mutual transfers. With regard to such teacher transfers
made on the above mentioned specific reasons, the Teacher Transfer Board shall be assembled within two
weeks and presented to the Teacher Transfer Board for reference.
IX. Format A under Schedule 01 for Annual Transfers and for an application for a reason external to it, Format
B should be used.
X. Completed teacher transfer applications shall be handed over by the applicant to the Zonal Director of
Education along with the Principal’s recommendations. It shall be the responsibility of the Zonal Director
of Education to forward those applications to the Provincial Director of Education for future action.
XI. Service attachments shall never be made. Attachments made with regard to pregnant teachers as per
circular provisions too should be carried out on recommendations of the Teacher Transfer Board.
Zonal Teacher Transfer Boards shall assemble on Friday of the third week of every month and the Provincial
Teacher Transfer Board shall assemble only on the Friday of the fourth week of every month.
XII. Measures shall strictly be taken to perform annual and other transfers to ensure that no school has
teacher-excess.
23. The following qualifications shall be there for transfers:-
I. For all types of transfers, conditions stated in the first appointment letter should be fulfilled. Further, the
conditions included into it at the time of reinstatement of service too should be fulfilled.
II. The minimum mark limit and time prescribed by the Provincial Transfer Policy should be fulfilled.
24. School categorization shall take place as stated below and based on the requirement to implement national and
provincial teacher transfer policy, timely categorization of schools should be adopted in each occasion.
(1) More popular schools
(2) Popular schools
(3) Non-popular schools

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2017
10A
(4) Remote schools
(5) Critically remote schools
25. Every teacher shall serve a minimum compulsory service period in a school named by the Standing Committee as
stated in the Provincial Teachers’ Service Minutes. Accordingly,
(1) In a Critically Remote or Remote school - Minimum of 03 years
(2) Non-popular school - Minimum of 04 years
(3) Popular school - Maximum of 05 years
(4) More Popular school - Maximum of 05 years
26. The method for allocation of marks with regard to transfers shall be as follows.
I. When granting transfers, the Education Divisions of the North Central Province are divided into two main
parts. Kebethigollawa Zone, Dimbulagala Zone, Medirigiriya Division and Elahera Division in Hingurakgoda
Zone and Vilachchiya Division in Anuradhapura Zone and Galenbindunuwewa Division in
Galenbindunuwewa Zone belong to one group. The schools belonging to these zones will be categorized
as follows and awarded with marks.
A
Type of School Marks per year
Critically Remote 10
Remote 08
Other Schools 05
II. Other Educational Zones in the North Central Province are considered equally and the following marks are
awarded for service period in those Divisions.
B
Type of School Marks per year
Remote 07
Critically Remote 08
Non-popular 05
Popular 03
Highly Popular 02
III. In addition to the matters stated in above (1) and (2), additional 02 marks will be allocated if married once as
calculated, whereas, 02 marks for each child will be allocated if there are children under 07 years of age. For
the whole service period one mark will be allocated per year. Further, when applying for inter-provincial
transfers, applicants who have completed more than 05 years’ service will be given one mark for each year.
When transferring teachers who have completed more than ten years’ service within the Province, the
above marking system should not be adopted.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2017
IV . Provincial Teacher Transfer Board shall timely decide on the total marks required for a transfer. On no
reason shall teachers be attached to another Province.
27. I. According to the approved Teacher Carder list, teachers who have no definite timetable
for relevant subjects shall be considered as excessive and the Principal shall inform the Zonal Director of
Education about such excess and immediate action should be taken by the Zonal Director of Education to
place such teachers within the Zone or to place them on inter-zonal transfers through Provincial Director
of Education to schools where there are vacancies.
II. Transfers of Excessive Teachers:-
The Provincial Director of Education, Zonal Director of Education shall identify the excess teacher or
teachers through the above mentioned marking procedure. Teacher or teachers who obtain minimum marks
shall be considered as excessive. When there is a teacher shortage in a school of certain Education Zone,
if there is an excess of teachers in another school of the same Zone for the same subject, balancing it shall
be performed based on the recommendations of the Zonal Transfer Board.
When there is a teacher shortage in a Zone in relation to a particular subject and if there is a teacher excess
in another zone for the same subject, balancing such excess shall be performed on the recommendations of
the Inter-Zonal Teacher Transfer Board.
III. The disciplinary authority shall take disciplinary and legal action against the relevant teacher who is
consciously aware that he/she is a teacher in excess, for the offence of receiving salaries without performing
a duty. Likewise, having considered that the Principal, Divisional Director of Education, Zonal Director of
Education and Provincial Director of Education have consciously made an offence with regard to retaining
a teacher surplus, disciplinary and legal action should be taken against such parties.
28. Transfer Board:-
I. Teacher Transfer Boards shall be established with the objective of performing service-place transfers.
II. Teacher Transfer Boards shall be established at following level
(a) Zonal Teacher Transfer Boards
(b) Inter-Zonal and Inter-Provincial Teacher Transfer Boards
29. Composition of Teacher Transfer Boards:-
(1) Zonal Teacher Transfer Board:
The Chairman of the Zonal Teacher Transfer Board shall be the Zonal Director of Education or a
representative nominated by him. In addition to the representative nominated by the Zonal Director of
Education for the Chairman’s position, two other members shall be nominated for the Transfer Board

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2017
12A
and one of them should be the Director in charge of Establishment Affairs. Whenever and where
possible, one of these two officers should be an officer who can operate in the Tamil medium. In
addition to this, a representative nominated by legal Trade Unions that have been registered under
the Trade Unions Ordinance too should be included.
Assistant Director of Education (Administration) shall be appointed as the Secretary.
(2) Inter-Zonal and Inter-Provincial Teacher Transfer Boards,
(a) Provincial Director of Education shall be the Chairman.
(b) There shall be two representatives prescribed by the Provincial Director of Education and one of
them should be the Director in charge of Establishments Affairs in the Provincial Department of
Education and whenever and where possible, one of the two officers nominated by the Provincial
Director of Education should be a Director in charge of the Tamil medium.
(c) Trade Union representatives: Trade Union representation as per the Trade Union Ordinance.
(d) The Secretary of the Inter-zonal and Inter-provincial Teacher Transfer Board shall be the Additional
Director of Education (Administration) of the Provincial Department of Education.
(3) Inter-zonal Teacher Transfer Board shall function with regard to Inter-provincial teacher transfers.
     (4) (I)         Application calling – From the first week of May up to 30
th June
 Inter-zonal and Inter-provincial – announcing the list on 30thSeptember
 Inter-zonal teacher transfer list – on 30thOctober
 Board of Appeal – 30th November
(II) Applications for annual transfers shall be called from the first week of May in
every year and shall conclude by 30 th June, whereas, by November 30 th Transfer List should be
announced.
30. The Board of Appeal:
I. A teacher dissatisfied by the decision of Teacher Transfer Board may present an appeal to the Board of
Appeal.
II. The Provincial Director shall become the Chairman of the Zonal level Appeal Board, whereas, the Provincial
Secretary of Education or his representative shall be the Chairman of Inter-zonal and Inter-provincial
Boards of Appeal and two other representatives nominated by the Provincial Secretary shall be included.
One of the said two officers should be an officer who has served in the Transfer Board. The other officer
should not have served in the Transfer Board. The composition of the Zonal Transfer Appeal Board
should be arranged in the same manner.
III. On behalf of all the Trade Unions, one representative should be selected on the consent of the majority of
Trade Unions. Representatives shall be selected according to the Trade Unions’ Ordinance.
31. Information collection and reporting of meetings:

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2017
 The decisions taken at the Teacher Transfer Boards and Appeal Boards shall be noted down and reported
by the Secretary of the Board.
 Annual service place transfers shall be conducted through internet by a software.
32. Annual transfers of Principals should be carried out according to the Principals’ Transfer Policy.
33. Teachers’ Code of Conduct on Virtuous Behavior
Teachers’ Code of Conduct on Virtuous Behavior broadly includes the honesty, responsibility, integrity that should
be inculcated within oneself and attitudes, responsibilities and customs expected from teachers as being persons
with exemplary social responsibility. The fields relating to that should be as follows.
(1) The teacher as a person,
The following social expectations should get fulfilled by a teacher as a social leader with good living, discipline
and good conduct.
(a) While following the procedures required for good health, pursuing the standards of physical hygiene and
cleanliness.
(b) Always attired in clean, charming and proper dresses agreeable to culture and preserving decency and
restraint.
(c) Refrain from unhealthy habits such as consuming liquor and drugs, smoking cigarettes, chewing betel, as
well as, from various abuses and encouraging others to refrain so.
(d)  Not make acquaintances with persons disgraced with regard to private and social behavior.
(e) Not boast in front of teachers, students and others about personal wealth, family alliances and associations
with persons holding higher positions.
(f) Not utilizing own wealth, family alliances and friendships with persons holding higher offices to scare
off or with the intention of harming other teachers, students or other persons, instead, bravely behaving
in front of people with such intentions.
(g) Refrain from persuading students to accept matters pertaining to one’s own private viewpoints on life or
religion or political standing.
(h) Not responding to students on personal bonds.
(i) Not making unnecessary gestures to mentally distress students.
(j) Not utilizing one’s own special skill on certain subject, language or other field to deplore other teachers.
(k) Not become radical in front of opinionated persons and behaving properly as a balanced personnel by
discarding extremist standings.
(l) Be prepared always to protect colleague teachers or students or other person in the face of unfair, unjust
ostracizes and scare offs.
(m)  Refrain from using the mobile telephones when working with students in the classroom and outside the
classroom.
(n) While always respecting to social standards, behaving in an exemplary manner to children and the whole
society in every way such as customs, character and private life.
(o) When there are violent actions against people or animals, taking action by displaying one’s own sensitivity
and by showing empathy, helping persons affected by natural disasters or by human activity such as
laziness or neglect.

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2017
14A
(2) The teacher in the place of parents
By taking into consideration about the legal concept that the teacher is students’ positional parents with
regard to school children,
(a) Always safeguarding the trust kept in him by parents and children and taking action in a manner promoting
children’s trust on parents and guardians.
(b) By discarding the factors such as caste, beliefs, gender status, social standing, religion, language, place of
birth, providing love, care and protection to all the children fairly and impartially.
(c) Addressing students only by their names or in endearing terms such as daughter, son.
(d) Being on alert about students’ special needs and problems that can be affecting them and taking measures
to provide such children with required facilities and to refer them for consultants’ advises.
(3) The teacher as a knowledge-giver, skills and attitude developer
Considering knowledge dissemination, development of skills and good attitudes as main responsibilities of a
teacher, the teacher shall function as below.
(a) As per Children’s Rights Convention of United Nations (1989), operating in a manner that ensures
preservation of rights enjoyed by children.
(b) Always accomplishing one’s own responsibility in proper preparation.
(c) Ensuring that the knowledge given is accurate, relevant and suitable to students.
(d) Following holistic approaches with regard to teaching.
(e) By encouraging questioning and discussion during the teaching time, providing space for the students to
improve their critical thinking ability.
(f) For students who require additional information relating to the lesson, explaining about ways and methods
for obtaining such information and allowing them to inquire further information from him.
(g) Providing facilities that persuade students for self-study. Especially, persuading students for reading.
(h) Acting as a person who improves students’ attitudes and persuader towards such.
(i) Never engaging in teaching by charging money from one’s students.
(4) The teacher as a creative guide and advisor
Considering that a valuable service should be rendered from a teacher as a creative guide and advisor for the
students assigned to his custody;
(a) Prepare properly in terms of knowledge, skills and good attitude to accomplish the said responsibility,
(b) Be on alert about weaknesses and problems encountering students and taking action to provide expertise
advises for solving such problems,
(c) Not reveal confidential information relating to weaknesses or problems of a student to other persons
except to the relevant student’s parents and legal caretakers,
(d) By maintaining a friendly relationship with parents, providing them with easy access in necessary occasions
to  get the problems relating to their child solved,
(e) Never utilize teacher-student relationship improperly;instead, taking steps to prevent students from
situations where they may become prey to abuse.
(f) Always taking action to develop student’s knowledge, skills and social ethics

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2017
(5) The teacher as an evaluator
By considering assessment and evaluation as important components of the teaching-learning process, the
teacher shall;
(a) Constantly update the knowledge required for that  and develop his knowledge, skills and attitudes relating
to that,
(b) Be on alert about students’ learning weaknesses and problems and taking all the measures to ameliorate
them including expertise’ advises for remedial measures.
(c) Executing evaluation affairs with transparency without any differences on children or of any personal-
relationships and in a way that build up students’ trust.
(6) The teacher as a professional
Owing to the reason of accumulation of a mass of theoretical knowledge and skills, the teacher is considered
as a professional, therefore;
(a) Always preserve the great traditions and loftiness, characteristic to the teaching profession.
(b) It is compulsory to maintain one’s professional knowledge and skills in a high standard as well as in
updated condition.
(c) Acceptance of teaching as a profession and service rely on the availability of required knowledge, skills
and attitudes in the teacher community; therefore, the teacher, share his knowledge, skills and attitudes
with others and enthusiastically assist the improvement of knowledge, skills and attitudes of all the
teachers.
(d) Owing to the lack of required qualifications in the teaching profession, the teaching profession might
get disgraced; therefore, the teacher should acquire the relevant qualifications and provide the assistance
necessary for the service improvement of colleague teachers.
(e) Teachers with defiecient qualifications should not expect promotions until they fulfill their qualifications
because promoting the grade of teachers who have not completed required qualifications may damage
the profession; instead, the teachers should support the programs intended to provide promotions to
qualified persons.
(f) Functioning with dignity and good sentiment about one’s profession.
(g) Wining public trust through the provision of quality education to all the students.
(h) Prevent from taking measures on one’s private or professional objective that may harmfully influence
the lives of student-community or their future and not encouraging such harmful/illegal actions.
(i) Without criticizing about colleagues of the work place with students, other teachers, officers and parents;
working with proper co-operation and unity within the institution and outside it in every activity relating
to the subject and external to the subject.
(j) Properly providing the successor with written documents and verbal information that are required for
the affairs of the next year.
(k) As soon as an improper situations harmful to the dignity of the profession arises, reporting such to the
relevant authorities.
(7) The teacher as a person responsible for management
(a) Being aware of rules and regulations governing one’s profession, as well as of  one’s own responsibilities
to the higher management.
(b) Assisting preparation of policies relating to the school and implementation of them.

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2017
16A
(c) Following the instructions of the management and in problematic situations,  questioning formally and
calmly about the relevant issues.
(d) Inculcating a mutual respect with regard to one’s professional activities and their results.
(e) Getting fulfilled all the official affairs fairly through proper authorities and through proper channels.
(8) Pioneer of society and nation
As the teacher is always considered as a pioneer in society and nation,
(a) Identifying the social problems and by deploying children in activities created to face the challenges
posed by such social problems, taking measures to generate a patriotic younger generation to the society.
(b) Through the inculcation of good thoughts and ethics that build up peace among various ethnicities,
religious and language communities, taking action to ensure social integrity and harmony.
(c) While functioning faithfully to one’s own school, society, country and nationality, guiding one’s own
students in the same path.
34. With regard to the affairs conducted contrary to the Teachers’ Code of Conduct, action should be taken according
to the Disciplinary Procedure of the North Central Province or according to the provisions of the Establishment
Code.
35. According to the social expectations expected from a teacher as a person with proper conduct, discipline and good
character, he shall follow the following regulations.
(a) Not frequent disgraceful places such as taverns or betting places
(b) Not behave in a disgraceful manner as a person abused to liquor, betting, smoking and drugs
(c) Always behave in decent manner and use decent words
(d) Not engage in occupations relating to …………. And activities harmful to physical health and good
existence of society.
(e) Should follow principles connected to conflict resolution, human rights, children’s and women’s rights
and not engage in activities that violate the above mentioned principles such as deployment of children
in domestic service, abuse them and prevent from assisting such activities.
36. As the teacher takes the parents’ position with regard to school children, he shall always function without any
different treatment to a student or group of students, while  treating all equally, fairly without any differences and
giving special consideration to persons requiring additional attention.
37. The teacher, considering knowledge-giving, skills and attitude development as his main responsibility, shall very
carefully follow the following matters.
I. Preparing properly to accomplish his responsibility.
II. Ensuring that the knowledge, skills and attitudes given are accurate and the methods utilized are suitable
in terms of age and nature of students.
III. Ensuring totally about students’ safety while in school as well as outside school during the teaching-
learning process.
IV . The teacher, allowing space for students who require additional information and methods usable to obtain
additional information, to reach him without hesitation.
V. Prevent from discussing unnecessary matters with students except matters relevant directly or indirectly
to his subject or lesson or matters pertaining to students’ discipline.

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2017
38. Compulsory Responsibilities of the Principal:
I. Providing timetables to teachers and supervision of them directly and through Deputy Principals of the
school shall be the responsibility of the Principal.
II. The Principal shall take action to direct students maximally to the learning-teaching process within the
school hours.
III. Preparation of students for Divisional, Zonal, Provincial and National competitions should at least be
made prior to one calendar month to the commencement of such competition. The Principal, Divisional
Director of  Education, Zonal Director of Education and Provincial Director of  Education shall take
measures regarding it.
IV . Making school children participate in external ceremonies during school hours, letting external ceremonies
be held within school premises should not be allowed unless under a proper permission of Provincial
Director of Education.
V. During school days, should not leave school premises within the official hours without properly obtaining
private, casual or duty leave.
VI. The Principal shall personally be accountable for covering of syllabus as per term note. Getting the said
target achieved through the teachers is a responsibility of the Principal.
VII. Retaining the necessary staff within the school according to the approved teacher, principal and non-
academic carders list provided to schools by the Ministry, whereas, if there is additional staff, the Zonal
Director of Education shall be notified through the Divisional Director of Education. Proper placement
of additional staff should be carried out by the Zonal Director of Education.
VIII. If there is excess staff in schools, Provincial Secretary of Education and Provincial Director of Education
shall take disciplinary and legal action against the Principal of the relevant school, Divisional Director of
Education and Zonal Director of Education against not taking action to balance such excess staff.
IX. It shall be taken into account that retaining a teacher in a school without a proper timetable is a matter
punishable disciplinarily and legally.
X. Teachers or Principals who should be deployed in academic affairs shall never be retained in Zonal and
Divisional Education Offices and if retained so for some duty, formal written permission should be obtained
from the Provincial Secretary of Education for such retaining.
XI. Addressing and assigning duties to the academic staff and non-academic staff both shall be done in a
manner preserving their professional dignity.
39. Owing to whatever reason shall employees of the non-academic staff be attached to Zonal Education Offices or to
any other offices.
40. Women employed in non-academic staff shall not be deployed in service in a manner contravening the women’s
rights.
41. Laboratory assistants of non-academic staff shall be deployed in the service in laboratories.

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2017
18A
Form A
Transfer Application in the Teachers Service – North Central Province
(To be Submitted such as inter provincial 05 copies, Inter zonal 3 copies, and 02 Zonal copies)
                                                                            The Transfer Number
1. Full name  :................................................................................................................. ..............
.................................................................................................................Thera/Mr./Mrs. /Miss
2. The name appearing in the salary sheet :.......................................................Thera/Mr./Mrs./Miss
3. School and the address : …………………………………… Telephone Number …………………
4. Personal address..................................………………………………………………………………
............................................................Telephone Number …………………………………………
5. Category :.............................Subjects teachers :................................Gender :........................... .......
6. Education Division of the School :...................................................... District ........................... ....
7. The Divisional Secretariat Division the applicant residing.............................. District ...................
8. The province to which the transfer is asked for.............................present zone............................
9. Date of Birth :........................ Age up to 31.12.20.....................The date due to retire..................
10. Date of first appointment  .................................... The district appointed  ....................................
The relevant zone :.....................
11. The class and the grade to which the teacher attached (3-II/3-1/2-II/2-1/1 to be mentioned............
12. Education leave and no pay leave details
The study course/institute for which from to Complete time of leave
the academic  leave taken
Reasons for taking no pay leave The no pay leave taken within three
previous immediate period
First Second Third
(if there are more no pay leave to total number of days shall be indicated in column the total
period of leave)
13. The period of service bound to be completed at the first school according to the original letter of
appointment ................................other conditions of appointment................................................
14. Service schedule. The date of appointment to the present school...................................................
The total period of service there .......................The period of service in the north central province
School and the address District Zone Division from to School Difficult marks
category allowance
paid
(Mention the categoriazation of the school relevant to presently adopted grading system, (very popular, popular, unpopular,
difficult, very difficult) to be stated (5%, 10%, 15%)
For Office use
The totaL number of
marks obtained by the
teacher
.................................
Your number in the
provincial zonal priority
list
Your number in priority
list

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2017
15. Civil status
Name of the spouse Address Address of the
place of service
16. Details about of children under 12 years of age:
Name Address Age School studying at
                    (Four certified copies of Birth Certificates shall be annexed)
17. If unmarried details of parents (Four certified copies of your birth certificate shall be annexed)
Name Address Date of Birth Age to the date of
31.12.20.......
18. Reason for applying for a transfer:
(The marriage certificate if the reason is concerning the husband and wife a copy marriage certificate if regarding the children the
copy of birth certificate if concerning the parents a copy of your birth certificate shall be attached having certified for a t rue
copy. If transfer is asked on the grounds ill health of the teacher/mother/father/spouse and children notes of treatments shall be
attached. Also attach a copy of the first appointment.
(If the given space is not adequate for you to mention information in detail, you may write it on a separate paper and annex with
paragraph number included (This shall be certified by a relevant officer)
Now the transfers in the north central province are given under the provincial transfers policy. You are expected to hand over
the transfer applications to the principal on or before the due date. You are kindly informed that the late applications are
rejected.
..................................
..................................
..................................
..................................
..................................
..................................
..................................
..................................
..................................
..................................
..................................
..................................
..................................
..................................
..................................
..................................
..................................
..................................
..................................
..................................
..................................
The initial signature of
the representatives who
inspected (mention the
teachers union)

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2017
20A
19. The province the transfer in asked for
Mention 05 schools according to the option in regular order :
School Address Category of District Education Zone
the school
Do you like to get the transfer to any other school in the division asked for if no vacancies exist in the
schools expected ...........................
........................... ................................
Date Signature of the applicant.
     The report of the principal to be filled according to the relevant circular
1-5 approved inter provincial approved
6-11 present inter zonal pr esent
12-13 shortage within the zones shortage
Total Supernumerary T otal Supernumerary
If the transfer of this teachers granted the vacancy being created in the school
The work could be covered by giving the transfer/couldn't cover. Only............................... teachers in this
cetegory could be released from this school.
............................................................................................................................... ............................
The above mentioned particulars are certified true. The transfer recommended/not recommended
........................ ................................. ................................
Date Official seal Principal
The recommendation of the zonal Education Director
The number of teachers in this category that should be in this zone..............................The present
number of teachers belonging to tis category...........................................
The number of supernumerary teachers in this category............................ The number of teachers in this
category fallen in shortage...............................................
The number of teachers in this category asked for transfers out of the zone to the last date of accepting
transfer applications.......................................................................................
Name of the subject clerk...................................      Signature............................................
The particulars provided by the teacher are proved according to his/her personal file, No. incorrect
particulars have been given and the information filled by the principal are true.
Transfer recommended/not recommended
Date.............................. Official seal................Signautre of the zonal Education Director...................... ..
For Office use
only
Marks given for
schools in
accordance with
the teacher
transfers policy in
north central
province
Dimbulagala
Kabithigollawa
Zones and
Madirigiriya and
Willachchiya
education divisions
per year
Verydifficult
6Difficult5 5
Other schools 4
Schools in other
arears per year
Very difficult
6Difficult5  4
unpopular
Popular 2
Very popular
Period of Service
per year1
Marriage 2
For a child under 7
years of age 2
if the previous
period of service in
the north and east
per year 1
If transfer is asked
for north or east it
is granted out side
of the marks
system and also
the period of
service without
prejudicing to the
conditions of the
letter of
appointment
Number of student Number of teachers
in terms of the
subject of the
applicantGrade Number of
classes
Total number of
students
The number of
teachers applied for
principal
in this year
Total number of
teachers

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2017
The recommendation of the board of teachers transfers
Since the relevant marks obtained the transfer is approved/not approved/on humanitarian grounds/medical
grounds/and the state of supernumerary.
The signature of the members, (Mention the teachers union)
1. ................................ 2................................ 3.......................................
4. ................................ 5................................ 6.......................................
7. ................................ 8................................ 9.......................................
Date...................................
............................... ...................................... .......................................
Official seal Signature of transfer board Secretary Signature of transfer board Chairman/
Provincial Zonal Director
       The recommendation of the Provincial Education Ministry Secretary (for inter provinces)
The transfer recommended/not recommended in terms of the recommendations of the board of teacher
transfers
................................ .................................. ...........................................
Date Official seal Signatre of the Provincial Education Ministry
Secretary
The Provincial Public Service Commission (for inter Provinces)
Secretary
.............................Provincial Public Service Commission
It has been decided to release this teacher from North Central Province. As such please inform me whether
it is agreed to absorb him/her in to your provincial public service.
................................ .................................. ...........................................
Date Official seal Secretary Public Service Commission
In releasing from
the province
exterior to the
marks system
depending on the
period of service
the applicant shall
have 10 years
service

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2017
22A
Form B
Transfer Information sheet – Ministry of Education, North Central Province
1. Name of the Teacher :—
2. Date of First Appointment :—
3. Teacher Category : ………………….....................…. Grade ………… Subject …………..
                                                                   (ex : degree, 3-(i)a - Science)
4. Civil Status :
5. Name of the spouse and working place :—
6. Number of Children :—
7. School Serving :—     Zone :— …………………..
8. Previous Service particular :—.........................
School Served From ……. To …….
(1) ………………………….. ………………………..
(2) ………………………….. ………………………..
(3) ………………………….. ………………………..
(4) ………………………….. ………………………..
(5) ………………………….. ………………………..
(6) ………………………….. ………………………..
(7) ………………………….. ………………………..
(8) ………………………….. ………………………..
9. The Province/zone/school to which the transfer is asked for :—
10. Reason for requesting for a transfer :—
11. The number of occasions emerged for applying for transfers :—
Date: …………………… Signature of the Teacher …………………………………….
The recommendation of the Principal
Approved Present Shortage Supernumerary
The total number of teachers relevant
to the school
The total number of teacher relevant
to the subject
The transfer is recommended/Not recommended
Date :............................................. Signature of the Principal and the official seal............................ ..........................

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2017
The recommendation of the Divisional Director :-
Approved Present Shortage Supernumerary
The total number of teachers
to the division
Number of teachers relevant
to the subject
The transfer is recommended/Not recommended.
Date :............................................. the signature of the Divisional Education Director and official seal ...... ................................
The recommendation of the Zonal Education Director :-
Approved Present Shortage Supernumerary
The number of teachers relevant
to the zone
The number of teachers relevant
to the subject
The transfer is recommended/Not recommended according to the above particulars.
Date :............................................. The Signature of the Zonal Education Director and the official
seal ..................................
The recommendation of the Principal of the school to which the transfer is asked for :-
Approved Present Shortage Supernumerary
The number of teachers relevant
to the zone
The number of teachers relevant
to the subject
It is recommended/Not recommended that there are vacancies for the relevant subject.
Date :............................................. Signature of the Principal and the official seal............................ ..........................
The approval of the Provincial Education Secretary.
The transfer to the ........................................... school in .......................................... zone W. e.  f. .................................../with
immediate effect is approved. The transfer .......................................... not approved.
Date :............................................. The Signature of the Provincial Education Director and official
seal ....................................................
10-43
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.