

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'11
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 11.03.2022
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2270$66 - 2022 ud¾;= ui 11 jeks isl=rdod - 2022'03'11
No.  2270/66  -  fridA y,   mArch 11,   2022
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Central Bank of Sri Lanka Notices
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A-   G 36335 — 30(03/2022)
MONETARY LAW ACT, No. 58 OF 1949
rules made under section 10 (c) read with section 68 of  the monetary l aw Act, No. 58 of 1949.
 Niv ard ajith LesLie CabraaL,  
 chairman of the monetary Board and  
 Governor of the central Bank of sri lanka.
central Bank of sri lanka,  
colombo,
11th   march, 2022.
REPATRIATION OF EXPORT PROCEEDS INTO SRI LANKA
1. These rules shall be cited as the “repatriation of export Proceeds into sri lanka  rules  No. 1 of 2022”.
2. The monetary Board of the central Bank of sri lanka, acting in terms of the provisions  of section 68 read in conjunction 
with the provisions of the section 10 (c) of  the  monetary law Act, No. 58 of 1949, as amended, hereby issues rules 
in respect of the  receipt of export proceeds into sri lanka and the conversion of such export proceeds into  sri lanka 
rupees.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'11
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 11.03.2022
2A
3. every exporter of goods and/ or services shall;
 (i)  mandatorily receive the export proceeds in sri lanka, in respect of all goods  exported and/ or services provided 
outside sri lanka, within one hundred and eighty (180) days from the date of shipment or provisioning of services, 
as the case may  be; and,
 (ii)   immediately upon all and every receipt/s of export proceeds being received,  forthwith submit all related documentary 
evidence on each and every receipt of export proceeds, in respect of every export of goods and/ or services to  the  
respective l icensed c ommercial Bank or a permitted l icensed specialized Bank  (hereinafter referred to as a “licensed 
bank”), that receives such proceeds, in sri  lanka.
4. every exporter of goods and/ or services, who receives export proceeds in sri lanka, in terms of rule 3 above, shall 
mandatorily convert residual of the export proceeds received  in sri lanka, into sri lanka rupees upon utilizing 
such proceeds only in respect of the  below mentioned authorized payments, on or before the seventh (7th) day of 
the  following month,
 i. outward remittances for current transactions  related  to the particular  export  of goods  and/ or services including  
one-month  commitments therein;
 ii. withdrawal in foreign currency notes or transfer of funds for travel purposes related to export of goods and/ or  
services;
 iii. debt servicing  expenses  and  repayment  of  foreign  currency  loans  and accommodations obtained by the exporter 
of goods and/ or  services,  where  such
 foreign currency loan and accommodation is a permitted borrowing in 
terms of the  regulations, Orders and directions issued by the central Bank of sri lanka under the  provisions of the 
foreign exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 or Banking  Act, No. 30 of  1988, as amended,  including  one-month  loan 
commitments;
 iv. payments  of dividends  declared to non-resident  investors  and/ or payments  of salaries  to expatriate employees 
who are foreign nationals  or dual  citizens  as permitted under the provisions  of the foreign exchange Act, No. 12 
of  2017;
 v.   payments in respect of making investments in  sri  lanka  development  Bonds in  foreign currency up to ten per-
centum (10%) of the export proceeds, so received and;
 vi.  payments to local suppliers permitted under the provisions of the foreign exchange  Act, No. 12 of 2017 for 
the purchases related to the particular export of goods and/ or  services.
5. such date of conversion mentioned in rule 4 above, shall not be a date later than the  date before which the export proceeds 
shall be received in sri lanka, as required by rule 3 (i) above (i. e., not later than one hundred and eighty (180) days 
from the date of shipment or provisioning of services).
6. every local supplier, who receives payments in foreign currency out  of  the  export  proceeds in terms of rule 4 (vi) above, 
shall mandatorily convert the residual of such receipts into sri lanka rupees, upon utilizing the same only in respect 
of the authorized payments as stipulated in items (i) to (v) of the rule 4 above, on or before the seventh (7th) day of the 
following month.
7. The monetary Board may, at its discretion, grant exemptions to any or all of the  requirements under these rules only in 
respect of exporters of goods and/ or services  registered as ‘strategic development Projects’  with the Board of  investment  
of  sri  lanka under the strategic development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008, as amended, on a  case-by-case basis.
8. All licensed banks shall be required to strictly and mandatorily monitor the receipts of  exports proceeds in sri lanka, 
within the period stipulated in rule 3 above and the  conversion of such proceeds as required in rules 4 and 6 above and 
shall at all times,  maintain all necessary documentary evidence relating to, or in connection therewith.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'11
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 11.03.2022
3A
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,   SRI  LANKA.
9. All licensed banks shall submit reports and/or statements to the director of the  department of foreign exchange of the 
central Bank of sri lanka, as may be required  from time to time and shall provide unencumbered access to the officers 
of the central  Bank of sri lanka, as may be authorized by the Governor or the deputy Governor,  as  the case may be, 
to inspect or examine the records maintained under rule 8 above, and  review all actions taken by such licensed banks in 
ensuring full and strict compliance  with these rules.
10. The director of the department foreign exchange of the central Bank of  sri lanka  shall have the right to initiate action 
against any non-compliance with, or transgression  of these rules, by any exporter/ local supplier or licensed bank, in 
respect of the export  of goods and/ or services, in terms of these rules.
11 . These rules shall apply in respect of all and every export of goods and/ or services,  made on or after the effective date of 
these rules, and shall also apply to the export of  goods and/ or services, made prior to the effective date of these rules,  
where the  hundred and eightieth (180th) date from the date of the shipment of such goods or  provisioning of services 
falls on any date after these rules come into force.
12. for the avoidance of any doubt, and for the purposes of these rules, “export Proceeds” shall include such proceeds required 
to be repatriated into sri lanka, under and in terms  of the foreign exchange (classes of miscellaneous capital Transactions) 
regulations  No. 4 of 2021, published in the Gazette Extraordinary Notification No. 2213/37, dated  03 february 2021, as 
amended, proceeds of export bills purchases (bill discounting), payments received through local agents/ intermediaries 
for the goods and/ or services  exported by local service providers/ local manufacturers and payments received in foreign 
exchange by a person resident in sri lanka for the services provided including  professional, vocational, occupational or 
business services provided to a person resident  outside sri lanka.
13. for the purposes of these rules, the terms “licensed commercial Bank” and “licensed  specialized Bank”, shall have 
the meaning assigned to them in terms of the provisions of  the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988, as amended.
14. for the purposes of these rules, the term “current transactions” shall have the same  meaning as in the foreign exchange 
Act, No. 12 of 2017.
15. for the purposes of these rules, the term “withdrawal of foreign currency  notes or  transfer of funds for travel purposes” 
shall be in terms of the directions issued to the  licenced banks by the central Bank of sri lanka, under the section 9 of 
the foreign  exchange Act, No.12 of 2017, in that behalf.
16. The repatriation of export Proceeds into sri lanka rules No. 5 of 2021, issued by the  monetary Board of the central 
Bank of sri lanka and published in the Gazette  Extraordinary Notification No. 2251/42, dated 28 October 2021, is hereby 
repealed.
eOG 03-0843