

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2355$29 - 2023 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 25 jeks nodod - 2023.10.25
No. 2355/29  -  WedNesday,   OctOber  25,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6511 - 286 (10/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
ThE  uNIvERSITIES  ACT, No. 16 Of 1978
Order under Section 27(1) (b) read with section 25A
by virtue of the powers vested in me by section 27(1) (b) read with section 25a  of the Universities act, No. 16 of 1978, 
I, dr. a. d. susil Premajayantha, the Minister of education, having obtained a report under section 70c of the aforesaid 
act, in respect of the Institute of chartered accountants of sri Lanka (IcasL),established by the Institute of chartered 
accountants act, No. 23 of 1959, located at No. 30a, Malalasekera Mawatha, colombo 07, being recognized as a degree 
awarding Institute, do by this Order, amend the schedule II to the Order made under said act, and published in Gazette 
Extraordinary, No. 2341/08 of July 17, 2023, by the addition immediately after the entry “bachelor of Management in 
Business Analytics” appearing in Column I and its corresponding entry in Column II thereof, of the entries specified under 
Column I and Column II respectively of the Schedule II hereto, subject to the conditions specified in Schedule I hereto.
schedULe I
C
onditions
 1. Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka shall, when admitting students for the degree programme specified in 
schedule II hereto in respect of the Master of business administration (with course work and research component) 
with a minimum of 60 credits (sLQF Level 10), adhere to the minimum admission requirement of;
 (a) a Bachelors Honours degree with a first or second class (Upper division/Lower division) in any 
business or Management related discipline (including commerce, economics, Public administration or 
engineering Management) recognized by  University Grants commission or Ministry in charge of the 
subject of higher education; or

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'25
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.10.2023
2a
 (b) a bachelors honours degree in any business or Management related discipline ((including commerce, 
economics, Public administration or engineering Management) recognized by  University Grants 
commission or Ministry in charge of the subject of higher education and a minimum of one (01) year 
post-qualifying work experience; or
 (c)  a Bachelors Honours degree with a first or second class (Upper division/Lower division) in any 
business or Management related discipline (including commerce, economics, Public administration or 
engineering Management) recognized by  University Grants commission or Ministry in charge of the 
subject of higher education; or
 (d) a bachelors degree in any discipline and at least a Postgraduate diploma in any business or Management 
related discipline ((including commerce, economics, Public administration or engineering Management) 
recognized by  University Grants commission or Ministry in charge of the subject of higher education; or
 (e) a bachelors degree in any discipline recognized by University Grants commission or Ministry in charge 
of the subject of higher education and a minimum of two (2) years post-qualifying work experience; or
 (f) Member of one of the following professional qualifications with minimum of two years of work experience; 
or
 I. Institute of chartered accountants (ca  sri Lanka)
 II. chartered Institute of Management accountants (cIMa)
 III. Association of Chartered and Certified Accountants (ACCA)
 IV . sri Lanka Institute of Marketing (sLIM)
 V . chartered Institute of bankers (aIb) sri Lanka
 VI. chartered Institute of Marketing (cIM) United Kingdom
 VII. chartered Institute of bankers (acIb) United Kingdom
 VIII. chartered Institute of Personnel Management (cIPM)
 IX. Institute of chartered secretaries and administrators
 (g) One of the following professional qualifications with a minimum of two (02) years of work experience.
 I. higher National diploma in accountancy (hNda) four-year course of higher National 
diploma in commerce (hNdc) four-year course offered by sri Lanka Institute of advance 
technological education (sLIate)
 II. attorney –at–law
 1. Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka shall be recognized to offer the programme specified in Schedule II 
hereto subject to the five (05) years review conducted by the Specified Authority.
schedULe II
Column I
Degree Programme
Column II
Abbreviation to the Degree
Master of business administration Mba
 
 dr. A. d. s usil  PremAjA y AnthA  (m.P.),
 Minister of education.
colombo,
16th October, 2023.
eOG 10-0257
Printed A t the dePArtment  oF GoVernment  PrintinG,  sri lAnKA.