

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'08
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 08.04.2016
103
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
Page 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
  
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... —
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 104
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 1"962- 2016 wfma%,a ui 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'04'08
No. 1,962 - FRIDAY ,  APRIL 08,  2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
103
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29 th  April, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on  15th April, 2016.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 
W. A. A. G. FonsekA,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2016.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B.- The List of Registered Veterinany  Surgeons up to 31.12.2015 has been published in Part  VI of this  Gazette  in English language 
only.  
N. B.- Ruhunu Awakening Organization  (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the  part  II of the  Gazette of the Demo-
cratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of January 01, 2016.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'08
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 08.04.2016
104
miscellaneous Lands notices
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/32698.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.: CPC/LC/LD/4/1/28/124. 
noTIfIcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe  LAnD  
ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It  is hereby notified that for the Agricultural Purpose,                                   
Mrs. Disanayaka Mudiyanselage Champa Shirani Disanayaka   
has  requested on lease a  State land containing in extent about  
60 P.  out of extent  marked as Depicted  in  the tracing (Part of 
378 in F. V . P. 252)  situated  in the  village of Meegahaela which  
belongs  to the Grama Niladhari  Division of  Meegahaela coming 
within  the area of authority  of  Naula Divisional Secretariat in 
the District of Mathale.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
 
On the North by : Land of N. G. Karunarathna ;
On the East by : Government Land  ;
On the  South by :  Residential land of K. H. M. Hinbanda  ;
On the West by :  Rest of this land.
03. the land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the 
land subject to other Government approved conditions and the 
following conditions : - 
 (a) Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty  (30) Years,  ( since 15.06.1995);
   The Annual  Rent of the Lease.– 4% of the   undeveloped   
value  of the land as per valuation of the Chief   Valuer 
for the year 1995. this amount of the lease must be  
quinquennially revised in such a manner that the amount 
as a result of the revision will be  not less than  50% of the  
amount that just preceded.
Penalty. - 12% of the developed value of the  land ; 
 
 (b) the lessees must not use this land for any purposes  other 
than for the  purpose of  Agricultural   purpose   ;
 (c) this   lessee  must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop  the  said land, in such a manner as to 
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
 (d)  the  lease  must  also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional 
Secretary and  by other  Institutions;
 
 (e) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure 
on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within the specified 
time frame the purpose for which the land was obtained, 
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
 
 (f)  Permission will not  be given for  any  other  sub - leasing 
or transfer other  than  the  transferring  within  or sub -  
leasing or transferring to  accomplish  the  purpose of this  
lease Bond  until the  expiry  of 05 years from  09.04.2015;
 
 (g) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted 
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse.
 (h)  the buildings constructed must be maintained in a proper 
state of repair ;
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within 
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must 
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested. 
  
D. T. M. JayaThilaka,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner ,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat,
"Mihikatha Medura", Rajamalwatta Road, 
Battaramulla.
14th March, 2016
04-435
PRINtED  At  tHE  DEPARtMENt  OF  GOVERNMENt  PRINtING,  SRI  LANKA.