

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'03
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.04.2009
477
477
wxl 1"596 _ 2009 wfm%a,a 03 jeks isl=rdod _ 2009'04'03
No. 1,596 – FRIDAY , APRIL 03, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... –
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 479
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. All
Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in respect
of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time both from
the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to
actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to noti fication will not be
entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th April, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 27th March, 2009.
LAKSHMAN  G OONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part III of the Gazette No. 1,595 of 27.03.2009  was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'03
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.04.2009
478
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate who
violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following punishments at
the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject or a part
thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one year or
two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  the
candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time before
the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision shall be deemed
final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the Public Service, the decision
of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public
Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and around
the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, his assistants or
the other candidates. They should enter and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as
possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the Examination is
in progress and before the commencement of the Examination as well as immediately
after the end of the Examination they should act in accordance with the instructions
of the Supervisor and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into the
Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement of a paper.
No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an hour from the time
of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral
Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number and not
at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no candidate should
change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than the one assigned to him by
a candidate is liable to be considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall. A candidate
is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with any person within
or outside the Examination hall other than a member of the Examination hall staff. If
there is an urgent need for a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission
must be obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number and his/her
name should not be written on the answer script. Another candidate’s index number
appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is considered as an attempt to commit
a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher
is liable to be rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should not write
anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other place. Non
conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, folded or
erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be tied up with the
answer script. If should be a part of the answer script. (Such rough work should be
neatly crossed out.) Anything written inside the Examination hall should not be
taken out. If a question has been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be
neatly crossed out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct answers
with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if the work of art is
similar or very close in resemblance to that of another candidate in concept, in form
or in execution it is liable to be considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of the
Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property of the
Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to be considered
an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with him or near
him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet of paper or pieces
of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling
bag or parcel other than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments
where necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers
should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note book or a
sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination hall. Should the
Supervisor so requires each candidate is bound to declare everything he has with
him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an
act of dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer script
of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other source. A candidate
should not attempt to look at the answer script of any another candidate. A candidate
should refrain from helping another Candidate and also from getting help from
another   candidate or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept
underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the
Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper. However in
an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/she shall be allowed to do
under the surveillance of the supervisor or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to
search before leaving the hall as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement of the
Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, presenting false
identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates
are warned not to commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person who is not
a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the
Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each paper. If you
have any doubt as to the location of the Examination hall, make inquiries on a day
prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility to sit
a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get your doubts
cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce their
identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce identification
documents at the Examination hall, his candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case
a candidate forgets to bring such documents into the Examination hall, it should be
brought to the notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, precis
paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different from the kind
generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be promptly brought to the
notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those issued at the Examination hall
should be used for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be
left on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used
with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, erasers,
pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, coloured chalk,
etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your index
number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper used. Write neatly
and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  line after the answer to each
part of a question. After the answer to a full question leave one or several blank
lines. Do not crowd in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter the
number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved for the
examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your answers correctly
as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  Y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the question
paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in which the other
questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions is often liable to affect
you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working of the
problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be accurate and sufficiently
large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if reference must be made to a
diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them up at  the
top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner.
 (xi) Y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure to do so
may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an absentee for the
paper. On no account should your script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an Invigilator,
or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'03
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.04.2009
479
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
INSTITUTE  OF  TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITY  OF  MORATUW A
Admission to the National Diploma in Technology
Course — 2009/2010
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible candidates for admission
to the National Diploma in Technology, 3 year fulltime Course
conducted by the Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa.
The Course will be conducted within the University premises at
Moratuwa until it is moved to a new premises of the Institute of
Technology, University of Moratuwa at Diyagama, Homagama.
General.— The National Diploma in Technology Course consists
of two years of academic study and one year of Industrial Training
and is conducted in English medium. The course is offered in the
following fields of study :
(a) Maritime studies Courses (Set I)
(i) Marine Engineering Technology
(ii) Nautical Studies and Technology
(b) Other fields of Courses (Set II)
(i) Chemical Engineering Technology
(ii) Civil Engineering Technology
(iii) Electrical Engineering Technology
(iv) Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering
Technology
(v) Mechanical Engineering Technology
(vi) Polymer Technology
(vii) Textile and Clothing Technology
Eligibility :
2.1 Age and other requirements :
(a) Applicants should be below 24 years of age on
31.12.2008.
(b) Applicants below 20 years of age on 31.12.2008
will be given preference for admission to the
Marine Engineering Technology and Nautical
Studies and Technology Courses. A special medical
test and interview would also be conducted for
selection of students to Marine Engineering and
Nautical Studies Courses.
(c) Those who are fulltime registered students of any
University under the UGC (except the Open
University of Sri Lanka) or Higher Educational
Institute under the Ministry of Higher Education
are not eligible to apply.
2.2 Educational Qualifications.– Applicants should have
obtained passes in any three (03) of the following
subjects :
(i) Physics
(ii) Chemistry
(iii) Combined Mathematics
(iv) Advanced Mathematics
at one and the same sitting of a G.C.E. (A/L)
Examination conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations, Sri Lanka in 2006 or
2007 or 2008.
3. Selection Criteria :
3.1 Admission to the Course :
The selection of students for admission will be based on
the performance at G.C.E. (A/L) Examination and the
aptitude test to be conducted by the Institute of
Technology, University of Moratuwa.
From those who pass the aptitude test, selections will be
done in the merit order of G.C.E. (A/L) results, i.e., in
the order of z-scores. In the selection, 40% merit and
60% district quota will be applied.
3.2 Field of Study :
Aptitude test marks together with the applicant's order
of preference for the field of study as indicated in the
field preference will be considered in the allocation of
the field of study.
Application Procedure :
4.1 Application form :
(i) Application should be made according to the
Specimen Form given in this Gazette Notification.
Specimen application will also be available in the
following Web address.
http://www.mrtac.lk/itum
(ii) Applications should be forwarded under
Registered Post  marked "NDT Admission
2009/2010"  on the top left hand corner of the
envelope and addressed to the Deputy Registrar,
Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa,
Katubedda, Moratuwa.
(iii) Application should reach the Deputy Registrar,
Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa
on or before the closing date for applications.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'03
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.04.2009
480
(iv) A self-addressed 9" x 4" stamped envelope
(Rs. 40 worth), should be enclosed along with the
application form.
(v) No copies or originals of the certificates should
be sent along with the application form. However
the content of the application has to be certified as
indicated. (see cages 3, 4 and 5 in the form of
application.)
4.2 Field Preference :
(i) There are to SETS of fields.
(ii) Applicants may apply to either Maritime Studies
(SETI) or Other Fields  (SET2) or Both sets of
fields. The perference must be indicated if
candidate applies to both sets of fields.
(iii) SET 1 - Insert order of preference as 1 for First
preference and 2 for Second preference. This
should be completed only by the candidates who
are applying for Maritime Studies.
(iv) SET 2 - Insert order of preference as 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,
"1" for the "most preferred", "2" for the next, and
so on "7" for the least preferred.
5.(i) Application Fee.–  Application fee for SET 1 or SET 2 is
Rs. 300/- and SET1 and SET 2 is Rs. 500. A receipt of payment in
favour of "Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa,
A/C No. 0000308280 of Bank of Ceylon, Katubedda Branch" to
the value of Rs. 300.00 (Rupees Three Hundred) for one set of
field of study (Rs. 500.00 if applying for both sets of fields),
obtained only from any branch of the Bank of Ceylon should
accompany each application. This application fee is non-refundable.
(ii) Closing Date.– The closing date of application is 30.04.2009.
6. Aptitude Test.– Applicants, short-listed according to the
G . C. E. (A.L) performance in Merit and District Quota will be
called for an aptitude test that will be conducted at the Institue of
Technology, University of Moratuwa.
7. Registration :
(i) Candidates selected for admission will be required to
produce the originals of the following certificates on the
date of registration :–
* G .C.E. A/L Certificate,
* Certificate indication G . C. E. (A./L.) Z-Score,
* School Leaving Certificate,
* Birth Certificate,
* Affidavit in support of any changes in name
appearing in different documents/certificates.
8. Very Important :
(i) A candidate once registered for the National Diploma in
Technology Course will not be eligible for admission to
any other course in this University or in any other
University in Sri Lanka (Except Open University of Sri
Lanka) or in any other Higher Educational Institute under
the Ministry of Higher Education during the tenure of
the course.
(ii) A candidate who has registered in this University or any
other University in Sri Lanka (Except open University
of Sri Lanka) or in any other Higher Educational Institute
will not be eligible for registration.
Director.
Institute of Technology,
University of Moratuwa.
16th of March, 2009
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
Application For Admission to the National Diploma in
Technology Course – Academic Year 2009/2010
I
NSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF MORATUW A
For office use only
Application No.
District
Application For (Please tick     9 )
(i) Maritime Fields - SET 1
(ii) Other Fields - SET 2
[Applicants may apply for single set (Set 1 or Set 2) or
both sets (Set 01 and Set 02)]
01. Personal Details (Please Use BLOCK CAPITALS)
Name in Full :
(Leave one blank cage between names)
Name with Initials :
(Leave one blank cage between names)
Title Mr ./Ms. Sex Male/Female
Age (Years)       (Months) Date of Birth
Date Month Y ear
As at 31st
Dec. 2008
National ID
Number

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'03
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.04.2009
481
02. Contact Details
Address (Residence):
(Leave one blank cage between different segments of the
address)
Telephone
Mobile
E-mail (if available)
03. Results of G. C. E. (Advance Level) Examination :
Subjects & Details of Grades & Details
Examination obtained at the
1st Attempt 2nd Attempt 3rd Attempt
Year
Physics
Chemistry
Combined Mathematics
Advanced Mathematics
Index Number
Z-Score
Medium Sinhala/Tamil/English
(Delete whatever is inapplicable)
Results of the year to be considered for Selection
(indicate whether) 2006 or 2007 or 2008
07. School(s) attended from Year 11 to 13
Year Name & District Period of
Address of Attendance
 School From To
Year M D Year M D
11
12
13
1st Attempt
2nd Attempt
3rd Attempt
05. Certification of Results and Schools attended :
It is compulsory to certify the Results under No. 03 and
Details under No. 04 in the application by the School
Principal for the School Candidates, and by a Justice of
Peace for External Candidates.
I certify that the particulars given above by the candidate in
the cage No.3 and 4 are true and accurate according to the
Original Certificates.
Name of the Principal/Justice of the peace :
Rev./Dr./Mr./Mrs. ................................................................
  
 Official Seal ......................., .....................
Signature Date
06. Field Preference :
Set 1 - Insert order of preference as 1 for First preference
and 2 for Second preference. This should be completed
only by the candidates who have applied for Maritime
Studies.
Set 2 - Insert order of preference as 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. ‘1’
for the “Most Preferred”, ‘2’ for the next and so on ‘7’
for the last preferred.
Set 1 Set 2
Maritime Fields Order Other Fields Order
Marine Engineering Chemical Engineering
Technology Technology
Nautical Studies and Civil Engineering
Technology Technology
Electrical Engineering
Technology
State Priority, if applied for Me chanical Engineering
both sets (9) Please tick Technology
SET 1 Polymer Technology)
SET 2 Textile & Clothing
Technology
Are you registered as a fulltime student
in any other University under the UGC
(other than Open University) or any
other Higher Educational Institution
under the Ministry of Education ?
(Delete whatever is inapplicable)
Applicant's Declaration :
(1) I declare that I am not a fulltime registered student at any
University (except Open University of Sri Lanka) or any
Higher Educational Institution under the Ministry of
Education.
(2) I certify that all the particulars given by me in this
Application are true and accurate. I am aware that if the
particulars given by me in this Application are found to
be false or inaccurate prior to my admission, I will be
discontinued from the course.
(3) In the event of my being selected for admission after the
Test, I shall abide by the Statutes, By-Laws, Regulations
and the Rules of the Institute of Technology, University
of Moratuwa, in so far as they are applicable to me.
Yes No.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'03
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.04.2009
482
(4) I have pasted the cash deposit/ cash transfer receipt
obtained from Bank of Ceylon, drawn in favour of
“Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa -
Account No. 0000308280 of Bank of Ceylon, Katubedde
Branch”.
(5) I also enclose a Self addressed stamped envelope
(Rs. 40/= worth) in size 9" x 4".
(6) I am aware that if I am found to be registered in another
University or any other Higher Educational Institution
under the Ministry of Education at the time of sitting for
the Aptitude Test for the National Diploma in Technology
Course, I will not be selected for the Course.
----------------------------,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :--------------------.
Paste your Cash Deposit/Cash Transfer Original Slip here.
04-47
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR
MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS RECRUITED FOR
NATIONAL SCHOOLS UNDER THE CENTRAL
GOVERNMENT – 2009
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination will be
held by the Department of Examinations in the month of July, 2009
an accordance with the provisions in the Schemes of Recruitment
relating to the officers belonging to the above posts.
2. (i) This examination will conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations in the Department of
Examinations and the candidates will be subjected to
the rules and regulations stipulated by him relating to
the conduct of examinations.
(ii) Rules and regulations stipulated for obtaining
candidature are printed separately in this Gazette
publication. In the event of any candidate violating these
rules and regulations he/she will be liable to a
punishment to be imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examination.
(iii) Applications can be forwarded for this examination only
by the holders of the post of Management Assistant
recruited for National Schools under the Central
Government.
(iv) Both subjects prescribed for this Efficiency Bar
Examination can be passed by appearing for one sitting
or two sittings.
3. Examination fees.- Examination fees will not be charged from
candidates appearing for the first sitting for this examination.
Thereafter an examination fee of Rs. 250/- will be charged if
appearing for once  (Rs. 125/- for one subject) One margin of the
receipt obtained for payment of the fee at any Divisional Secretary's
in the island should be firmly affixed at the place which is provided
for in the application. (It will be useful to retain  a photo copy of
this receipt with the candidate.)
4. Application should be made in conformity with the specimen
form appended to the Notification. It should be prepared by using
A4 size paper with items 01 to 04 appearing in the first page and
other items in the second page. Although the application may be
typed and prepared it should be correctly and legibly filled in
candidate's own handwriting. Duly completed applications should
be sent under registered post through the relevant Zonal Director
of Education/Head of the Department addressed to the
Commissioner General of Examination Pelawatta Battaramulla to
be received before 30
th April, 2009. Name of the examination should
be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope in forwarding
the application. A certified copy of the letter of appointment should
be annexed to the application. Applications with incomplete
information and those received after the closing date will be rejected
without any notification and it is advisable for the candidate to
keep a photo copy of the application with him. Further, the candidate
should check whether the perfected application is in conformity
with the specimen application form as otherwise the application is
liable to be rejected. while preparing the application the name of
the examination indicated at the heading should be written in
English in addition to Sinhala in the Sinhala applications and in
English in addition to Tamil in the Tamil applications.
5. Identity of the Candidates.–  Candidates should prove their
identity to the satisfaction of the Supervisor of the Examination
Hall relating to every subject they appear in the examination hall.
One of the documents indicated below will be accepted for this
purpose :
(1) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
the Department of Registration of Persons;
(2) A Valid Passport.
Dicision of the Commissioner General of Examinations
regarding the candidature of a candidate who fail to submit the
above documents will be the final decision.
6. An admission card and a copy of the Examination time table
will be issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations to
the candidates whose applications have been accepted. Candidates
appearing for the examination should submit their admission card
with their signatures duly attested, to the Supervisor of the
examination hall. Permission will not be granted to sit the
examination without submitting this admission card. Immediately

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'03
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.04.2009
483
after the issue of admission cards to the candidates, a news paper
notification will be published to that effect by the Department of
Examinations. If the admission card is not received even after the
lapse os 2 or 3 days after the publication of such notice candidates
should notify the Department of Examinations as indicated in the
notification. It will be more useful to notify the Department along
with a certified photo copy of the application retained by the
candidate, registration receipt and a fax number when it is outside
Colombo to send the admission card, along with the letter of request.
7. The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for the
officers for whom admisson cards have been issued by the
Commissioner of Examinations to enable them appear for the
examination. No traveling expenses will be paid for this purpose.
8. Candidates should answer the question papers in, the language
medium they received education. Permission will not be granted
later to change the language medium applied by the Candidates.
This examination will be held only in Sinhala, Tamil and English
mediums.
9. This examination will be held only in Colombo.
10. Examination procedure (Examination relating to the above
posts will consist of the following subjects.)
Subject Subject Marks Time
No.
01. Establishment Code
and Financial
Regulations 01 100 03 Hours
02. Development
Administration 02 100 03 Hours
(01) First question paper (Establishment Code and Financial
Regulations) :
(i) Chapters I, II, VI and XII in the Establishment
Code.
(ii) All Chapters in Part Two of Establishment Code.
(iii) Financial Regulations Chapters IV and V .
(02) Second question paper (Development Administration) :
(i) Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and its 13
th Amendment.
(ii) Provincial Councils Act and its amendments.
(iii) Organization Structure of the Ministry and details
of duties assigned in each Level.
(Officers should obtain a minimum of 40% marks
for a pass)
11. Issue of an admission card to a candidate should not be
treated as an acceptance of the fulfillment of his qualifications to
appear for the examination.
12. Regarding any matter for which no provision has been made
by this Circular the decision of the Secretary, Ministry of Education
will be the final decision.
M. M. N. D. Bandara,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
'Isurupaya',
Battaramulla,
17th March, 2009.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
First Efficiency Bar Examination for Management Assistants
recruited for National Schools under
the Central Government – 2009
Index No.
(For Office Use)
Language medium appearing for
The examination
(Relevant number should be written within the cage.)
(Sinhala – 2, Tamil – 3, English – 4)
01. Name with initials at the end :————.
(In English Capital letters) Example : SUNIL, H.M.U.
1.1 Names denoted by initials :————.
(In English Capital letters)
1.2 Name in full :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 National Identity Card No. :————.
02. Place of work and address :
2.1 Name of School/COE/Teachers' College/Office :
————.
2.2 Official address :————.
(In English Capital letters)
03. Post held at present :————.
(Certified copy of letter of appointment should be annexed)
3.1 Reference number of letter of appointment :————.
3.2 Date of appointment :————.
04. Subject/Subjects applied (Please see paragraph 10 in Gazette
Notification) :————.
Serial No. Subject Subject No.
01
02

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'03
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.04.2009
484
I hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are true
and correct and I am entitled to sit this examination in the medium
indicated above and I also agree to abide by the rules and regulations
to be imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
relating to the conducting of this examination.
————,
Signature of candidate.
Date :————.
Note :  Candidate should sign in the presence of his Head of
Department or an officer authorized to sign on behalf of the Head
of Department.
Receipt should be affixed here
(It will be useful to retain a photocopy of the receipt)
Attestation of Signature
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................................. Who
is an officer in my office/School/College of Education/Teachers'
College and who is personally known to me placed his/her signature
in my presence.
————,
Signature of Certifying Officer and His official frank.
(Principal/President NCOE/Teacher's College/Staff Officer)
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
Certificate of Head of Department :
I certify,
(1) that the information furnished by the candidate was
verified ;
(2) that a certified copy of the letter of appointment is
annexed and ;
(3) that the officer is eligible to sit this examination.
————,
Signature of Certifying Officer and His official frank.
(Zonal Director of Education/President
(NCOE)/Head of Department)
Name :————,
Designation :————,
Address :————,
Date :————.
04-79
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR
DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANTS AND PLANNING/
FINANCIAL ASSISTANTS RECRUITED UNDER THE
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION – 2009
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination will be
held by the Department of Examinations in the month of July, 2009
an accordance with the provisions in the Schemes of Recruitment
relating to the officers belonging to the above posts.
2. (i) This examination will conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations in the Department of
Examinations and the candidates will be subjected to
the rules and regulations stipulated by him relating to
the conduct of examinations.
(ii) Rules and regulations stipulated for obtaining
candidature are printed separately in this Gazette
publication. In the event of any candidate violating these
rules and regulations he/she will be liable to a
punishment to be imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examination.
(iii) Applications can be forwarded for this examination only
by the officers who obtained their appointments under
the Ministry of Education.
3. Examination fees.- Examination fees will not be charged from
candidates appearing for the first sitting for this examination.
Thereafter an examination fee of Rs. 200/- will be charged if
appearing for once. One margin of the receipt obtained for payment
of the fee at any Divisional Secretary's Offices in the island to the
credit of Revenue Head 4000-20-03-20-13 of Commissioner
General of Examinations should be firmly affixed at the place which
is provided for in the application. (It will be useful to retain  a
photo copy of this receipt with the candidate)
4. Application should be prepared in conformity with the
specimen form appended to the Notification. It should be prepared
by using A4 size paper with items 01 to 03 appearing in the first
page and other items in the second page. In preparing the application
the name of the Examination should be written in English in addition
to Sinhala in Sinhala application and in English in addition to Tamil
in Tamil applications. Although the application can be typewritten
it should be legibly filled in candidate's own handwriting. Duly
completed applications should be sent under registered post through
the relevant Zonal Director of Education/President NCOE/Head
of the Department addressed to the Commissioner General of
Examination, Pelawatta, Battaramulla to be received before 30
th
April, 2009. Name of the examination should be written on the top
left hand corner of the envelope in forwarding the application.
A certified copy of the letter of appointment should be annexed
to the application. Applications with incomplete information and
those received after the closing date will be rejected without any
notification and it is advisable for the candidate to keep a photo
copy of the application with him. Further, the candidate should
check whether the perfected application is in conformity with the
specimen application form as otherwise the application is liable to

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'03
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.04.2009
485
be rejected. while preparing the application the name of the
examination indicated at the heading should be written in English
in addition to Sinhala in the Sinhala applications and in English in
addition to Tamil in the Tamil applications.
5. Identity of the Candidates.-  Candidates should prove their
identity to the satisfaction of the Supervisor of the Examination
Hall relating to every subject they appear in the examination hall.
One of the documents indicated below will be accepted for this
purpose :
(1) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
the Department of Registration of Persons
(2) A Valid Passport
Dicision of the Commissioner General of Examinations
regarding the candidature of a candidate who fail to
submit the above documents will be the final decision.
6. An admission card and a copy of the examination time table
will be issued by the Commissioner General of examinations to
the candidates whose applications have been accepted. Candidates
appearing for the examination should submit their admission card
with their signatures duly attested, to the Supervisor of the
examination hall. Permission will not be granted to sit the
examination without submitting this admission card. Immediately
after the issue of admission cards to the candidates a news paper
notification will be published to that effect by the Department of
Examinations. If the admission card is not received even after the
lapse of 2 or 3 days after the publication of such notice candidates
should notify the Department of Examinations as indicated in the
notification. It will be more useful to notify the Department along
with a certified photo copy of the application retained by the
candidate, registration receipt and a fax number when it is outside
Colombo to send the admission card, along with the letter of request.
7. The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for the
officers for whom admisson cards have been issued by the
Commissioner General of Examinations to enable them appear for
the examination. No traveling expenses will be paid for this purpose.
8. Candidates should answer the question papers in, the language
medium they received education. Permission will not be granted
later to change the language medium applied by the Candidates.
This examination will be held only in Sinhala, Tamil and English
mediums.
9. This examination will be held only in Colombo.
10. Examination procedure (Examination relating to the above
posts will consist of the following subjects.)
In this examination one question paper should be answered
which contain the following subjects. (Time 02 hours)
(01) General Administration and Office management
Provisions in Establishment Code, Office
Management
Chapters I, II, V , VI, VII, VIII, XII, XIV, XV, XVI,
XXIV , XXV , XXVII, XXVIII, XXX, XXXII are
applicable.
(02) Financial Regulations and Accounts
(a)Government Financial Regulations Part I (Except
Chapter X)
Officers should obtain a minimum of 40% marks
for obtaining a pass
11. Issue of an admission card to a candidate should not be
treated as an acceptance of the fulfillment of his qualifications to
appear for the examination.
12. Regarding any matter for which no provision has been made
by this Circular the decision of the Secretary, Ministry of Education
will be the final decision.
M. M. N. D. Bandara,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
'Isurupaya',
Battaramulla,
18th March, 2009.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
First Efficiency Bar Examination for Development Assistants
and planning/Financial Assistants recruited under the Ministry of
Education – 2009
Index No.
(For Office Use)
Language medium appearing for
The examination
(Relevant number should be written within the cage.)
Sinhala – 2
Tamil – 3
English – 4
01. Name with initials with initial at the end :————.
(In English Capital letters) Example : SUNIL, J.M.U.
1.1 Names denoted by initials :————.
(In English Capital letters)
1.2 Name in full :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 National Identity Card No. :
02. Place of work and address :
2.1 Name of school/COE/Teachers' College/Office :
————.
2.2 Official address :————.
(In English Capital letters)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'03
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.04.2009
486
03. Post held at present :————.
(Certified copy of letter of appointment should be annexed)
3.1 Reference number of letter of appointment :————.
3.2 Date of appointment :————.
I hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are true
and correct and I am entitled to sit this examinant in the medium
indicated above and I also agree to abide by the rules and regulations
to be imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
relating to the conducting of this examination.
————,
Signature of candidate.
Date :————.
Note :  Candidate should sign in the presence of his Head of
Department or an officer authorized to sign on behalf of the Head
of Department.
Receipt should be affixed here
(It will be useful to retain a photocopy of the receipt)
Attestation of Signature
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................................. Who
is an officer in my office/School/College of Education/Teachers'
College and who is personally known to me placed his/her signature
in my presence.
————,
Signature of Certifying Officer and His official frank.
(Principal/President NCOE/Teacher's College/Staff Officer)
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
Certificate of Head of Department :
I certify—
(1) that the information furnished by the candidate was verified ;
(2) that a certified copy of the letter of appointment is annexed ;
and
(3) that the officer is eligible to sit this examination.
————,
Signature of Certifying Officer and his official frank.
(Zonal Director of Education/President
(NCOE)/Head of Department)
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
04-80
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH SERVICES
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to
Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Scientific Service
2007 (2009)
THE closing date for applications, laid down in the Government
Gazette Notification No. 1592 dated 06.03.2009 published for
filling of the above vacancies, has been extended up to 24.04.2009.
The clause “to be credited to Revenue Head 6, Sub Head 1, Item
4 Sub Item 4” indicated in Para 7 therein should be revised as
follows :
"to be credited to revenue head 4000-20-03-20-13"
D. Dissanayake,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration & Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration & Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
18
th March, 2009.
04-118
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
Ministry of Vocational and Technical Training
DEPARTMENT OF TECHNICAL EDUCA TION AND TRAINING
POST IN LECTURER CLASS III (SPECIAL CADRE) OF THE SRI LANKA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION SERVICE
Applications are invited for the under mentioned posts scheduled
under Lecturer Class III (Special Cadre) of the Sri Lanka Technical
Education Service in the Colleges of Technology of the Department
of Technical Education & Training.
Desig- Post Medium of Vacancies
nation Teaching English
Serial Nos. Medium
01 Lecturer in Civil Engineering English 12
02 Lecturer in Electrical Engineering English 02
03 Lecturer in Electronic Engineering English 02
04 Lecturer in Refrigeration and English 08
Air Conditioning
05 Lecturer in Food Technology English 06
06 Lecturer in Mechanical English 12
Engineering and (Automotive)
07 Lecturer in Mechanical English 12
Engineering and Welding
08 Lecturer in Information Technology English 14
09 Lecturer in Printing Technology English 04
10 Lecturer in Jewelry English 08
11 Lecturer in Mechanical Engineering English 08
Mechatronics
12 Lecturer in Production Technology English 04
13 Lecturer in Bio Medical Technology English 04

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'03
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.04.2009
487
Applications on form, a specimen of which is given below should
be sent under registered cover to reach the "Director General,
Department of Technical Education and Training, P. O. Box : 557,
Colombo 10" on or before 30
th April 2009. The envelop enclosing
the application should be marked "Post in Class III (Special Cadre)
of the Sri Lanka Technical Education Service" on the top left hand
corner. Candidates applying for more than one post should send
one application indicating designation numbers and posts according
to your preference for each post applied for only those who are
posses basic qualification according to Gazette notification will be
called to written examination.
02. Terms of Employment and Condition of Service :
(a) This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected
candidates will be required to contribute to the "Widows
and orphans/Widower and orphans" pension Scheme and
will be placed on three years probation.
The Efficiencey Bar :
(b) According to the Public Administrative Circular No.
20/2001, every officer appointed to a post should
complete 1
st Efficiency Bar before 4 th step and 2 nd
efficiency bar before 7th step of the Salary Scale. Failure
to complete the Efficiency Bar within the stipulated period
will result in the deferment of the increment and the period
taken in excess of the time allowed will be treated as a
period of deferment of increment. These officers will also
become ineligible to apply for any higher post within
Sril Lanka Technical Education Service until they
complete the Efficiency Bar.
(c) Officers appointed to these posts are expected to obtain
the competency in second language within 05 years from
the date of appointment in accordance to the public
administrative circular No. 07/2007. Failure to complete
the competency in the second language within the
stipulated period will result in the deferment of the
increment. The language competencies of these officers
is pass the Sinhala/Tamil in G. C. E. (O/L) as a main
subject (should not be a 2
nd language optional subject)
and pass the oral test held by the Department of official
languages or pass the special skills examination held by
the Department of official language.
3. Salary and allowance.– The monthly consolidated salary scale
relevant to this post is Rs. 22,935-645x10-790x8-1,050x17-53555.
Payments will be made in terms of P. A. Circular SL-1-2006.
Payment of increment will be subjected to the completion of the
Efficiency Bar specified in Para 2 (b) above.
4. Qualification Required-
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(b) Should not be less than 22 years and not more than 35
years of age on the closing date of applications.
(c) Is of excellent moral character and physically fit,
(d) Should serve in any part of the Island.
(e) Education.– A degree of a relevant subject field, obtained
from a University, recognized by the University Grant
Commission with 5 years teaching/practical experience.
5. Recruitment Procedure.– Candidates will be recruited on the
results of the open competition exam for the vacancies of posts in
Lecturer Class III of Sri Lanka Technical Education Service for
the Colleges of Technology, purview under the Department of
Technical Education and Training. Commissioner General of
Examination will held the exam as per the minute on behalf of
recruitment authority.
6. Copies of following documents certified by you should be
attached with the application :
(i) Certificate of Registration of Birth. (N. B. Baptismal
Certificate or the Certificate of Birth issued for the
purpose of the Code of Regulations for Assisted Schools
will not be accepted).
(ii) Degree certificate or other educational certificates.
(iii) Certificate of professional and/or technical qualifications.
(iv) Certificate of the highest examination passed in Sinhala,
Tamil and English.
7. Applications of officers in the State Service must be forwarded
through the Heads of their respective Departments.
8. Reference is requested to General Conditions applicable to
appointments in the State Services, published at the beginning of
Part I Section (IIA) of this Gazette and also to the minute of Sri
Lanka Technical Education Service, published in the Gazette No.
415 General Part I of 15.08.1986.
9. All the applicants must appear for an open competitive test
conducted by the Commissioner General of Examination
comprising following components :
(i) General Knowledge -100 marks –
duration 1 hour
(ii) General Intelligence -100 marks –
duration 1 hour
9.1 Candidates selected according to the merit order of the
competitive examination, should face an interview to
examine the basic qualifications, mentioned in the Gazette
Notification (Marks will not be given for the interview).
Applicants who have obtained 40% or above marks for
each module will be considered for the priority list which
will be based on the aggregate marks accumulated by
them.
10. Syllabus :
10.1 General Knowledge.–  1 hour.– This question paper has
been set to assess the candidate's knowledge of Economic,
Social, Political, Geographical and Geo Scientific matters
at National and International level. In this question paper,
some questions are given expecting the correct answers

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'03
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.04.2009
488
from candidates themselves and another set of questions
is given to find out the ability of the candidate to select
the correct answer.
10.2 General Intelligence.– 1 hour.–  This question paper,
limited to one hour is set to assess the candidate's ability
for logical thinking and decision making. This is a
multiple choice question paper.
11. Date of Examination.–  This examination will be held in
Colombo city (city no. 01) and Jaffna city (city no. 02 ) in 1
st week
of June 2009. The Secretary reserves the right to postpone or cancel
this examination subject to instructions given by the Public Service
Commission. Accordingly, the town in which the candidate intends
to sit the examination and the town number should be indicated in
the application form accurately. It will not be permitted to change
the town indicated subsequently under any circumstance.
12. Examination Fee.– The fee of the examination is Rs. 300. It
should be paid before the closing date of applications at any People's
Bank branch to be credited to Director General Department of
Technical Education & Training, to the Account No. 176-1001-
39026228 (Mid City Branch). The receipt obtained from the
People's Bank should be pasted to the relevant cage in the
application form. This fee is not refundable. It should be useful to
keep a photocopy of the Receipt with the candidate.
13. Vacancies will be filled according to the merit order of the
open competitive test.
14. The Public Service Commission reserves the right, not to
fill all or a part of the vacancies.
15. Clauses of sections 10-12 of Chapter II of Establishment's
Code will be relevant as suitable for the post.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
Thilak Hapangama,
Secretary,
Ministry of Vocational and Technical Education.
Ministry of Vocational and Technical Training,
Elewitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
 Ministry of Vocational & Technical Training
 
Posts in Lecturer Class III (Special Cadre) of the Sri Lanka
Technical Education Service under the Department of
Technical Education and Training
Application for the Post of Lecturer in ............................
Designation Posts
Serial Nos.
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
1.0 Medium : 2.0 City :
Language medium of Indicate city in which the
examination candidate intends to sit
for the examination
Sinhala-2, Tamil-3, English-4
(indicate the relevant number Relevant City No :
in the cage)
(as per para 11 of
notification of Gazette)
It will not be allowed to
change the city subsequently)
01. Name (with initials) :
E. g. Silva A. B.
02. Name in full :
03. Official Address :
04. Private Address :
(Admissions should be sent
this Address)
05. (a) Whether a Sri Lankan :
(b) If so, by decent or by registration :
06. (a) Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(b) National Identity Card No. :
07. Age as at closing date of Application :
Years : Months : Dates :
08. Married of Single :
09. Particulars of present post :
(a) Post and the date of appointment :————.
(b) Whether permanent or temporary :————.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'03
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.04.2009
489
(c) Whether pensionable or non-pensionable :————.
(d) Whether confirmed in the post :————.
(e) Department :————.
(f) Institute/Place of work :————.
(g) Annual consolidated salary scale :————.
(h) Present annual consolidated salary :————.
10. Particulars of Educational Qualifications (Including
certificates of proficiency in Sinhala/Tamil Language) :
Examination Institution Year Subjects
1.
2.
3.
4.
11. Particulars of professional Qualifications :
Certificate Institution Year Subjects
1.
2.
3.
4.
12. Institutions attended for General Education :
Institutions Class From To
1.
2.
3.
4.
13. Institutions attended for professional Education :
Institutions Course From To
1.
2.
3.
4.
14. Previous appointments (to be stated in chronological order
with exact dates) :
Department Institute/ Post Whether From To
place of Post is
work Permanent
or Temporary
1.
2.
3.
4.
15. Whether you have been convicted in a Court or Law ? If so
give details :————.
16. If served in a Government Department or Board/Corporation
in Public Sector, State reasons for termination of service :
————.
17. Is there any disciplinary inquiry pending against you ? If so
state details in brief :————.
Receipt of the Examination fees
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am also aware that if any
particulars contained therein are found to be false and incorrect,
before selections, I am liable to disqualification and to dismissal
without compensation if the inaccurcy is discovered after the
appointment.
————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :————.
Recommendation of the Head of the Department :
————,
Signature of the
Head of the Department.
Date :————.
04-119

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'03
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.04.2009
490
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday)
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the Government
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by Money Order,
Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of Advertisements .
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka" is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to alteration in any
week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as shown in
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.)1,300 003,120 00
Section III          ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government)23 00 60 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'03
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.04.2009
491
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies
depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
APRIL 03.04.2009 Friday — 20.03.2009 Friday 12 noon
08.04.2009 Wednesday –– 27.03.2009 Friday 12 noon
17.04.2009 Friday –– 03.04.2009 Friday 12 noon
24.04.2009 Friday –– 08.04.2009 Wednesday 12 noon
30.04.2009 Thursday –– 17.04.2009 Friday 12 noon
MAY 07.05.2009 Thursday — 24.04.2009 Friday 12 noon
15.05.2009 Friday –– 30.04.2009 Thursday 12 noon
22.05.2009 Friday –– 07.05.2009 Thursday 12 noon
29.05.2009 Friday –– 15.05.2009 Friday 12 noon
JUNE 05.06.2009 Friday — 22.05.2009 Friday 12 noon
12.06.2009 Friday –– 29.05.2009 Friday 12 noon
19.06.2009 Friday –– 05.06.2009 Friday 12 noon
26.06.2009 Friday –– 12.06.2009 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.