

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'04'26
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
687
687
wxl 1"808 - 2013 wfm%a,a ui 26 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'04'26
No. 1,808 – FRIDAY , APRIL 26, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  17th May, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 03rd May,
2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 688
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
Note .— (i) Customs  (Amendment)  Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka of  February  22, 2013.
(ii) Nation Building Tax (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of February 22, 2013.
(iii) Muslim Marriage and Divorce (Amendment)   Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 22, 2013.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
688
Provincial Councils Notifications
NORTH  WESTERN   PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Establishing and Regularizing of Community Based Organizations (Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation)
Statute No. 1 of  2013 of Provincial Council of North Western Province
THE  above mentioned  Statute passed by the Provincial Council of the North Western Province on 19th March ,2013 and assented b y
the Governor of North Western Province on 02 nd April, 2013 is hereby published for the information of the public.
P.B.M.SIRISENA,
Sacretary,
Provincial Council,
North Western Province.
Council Officer,
North Wesern Provincial  Council,
Kurunegala,
04th April, 2013.
Establishing and Regularizing of Community Based Organizations (Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation)
Statute No. 1 of  2013 of Provincial Council of  North Western Province
A statute on the establishment of Community Based Organizations  for the intialization and maintenance of sustainable
Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Projects, the establishment of a Water Supply and Environmental
Sanitation unit under the Ministry of Local Government to the direct and formalize such organizations enforcement
regulations in the same.
Be it enacted by the Privincial Council of North Western Province of the  Domocratic Socialist Rupublic of  Sri Lanka.
1. This statute may be cited as the “Establishing and Rugularizing of Community Based  Organizations (Water
supply and Environmental Sanitations) Statute No. 01 of 2013 of Provincial Council of North Western
Province” and will come into effect from the date of approval by the Governor of North Western Province.
2. (1) ensuring the  sustainability of the Community Based Organizations that established to proivide Water
Supply and Environmental Sanitation to the people of the region, and regulating, guiding and administrating
the same.
 (2) Implementing  projects  in  order  to  promote  Water  Supply  and  Environmental  Sanitation  for the
beneficiaries.
  (3) Inclusion of all regional Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Projects that are being carried out
within the Province into a common management Procedure.
(4) Establishment of the North Western Provincial Water Supply and Environmental Unit.
Objectives
Short title and
the Date of
Operation
Preamble

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'04'26
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
689
PART 1
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NORTH WSTERN PROVINCIAL WATER  SUPPLY  AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION UNIT, ITS
COMPOSITION AND ADMINISTRATION
3. Provincial unit for water supply and environmental sanitation needed for the implementation of this statute
and for the fulfillment of thle objectives and duties of the Provincial Committee henceforth called “provincial
Unit” can be established Under the administration of the secretary of the Provincial Ministry of the subject in-
charge of Local Government,
4. (1) As the Director of the Provincial Unit, an officer not less than Grade III of Sri Lanka Administrative
Service, should be appointed by the Governor of the Province with the concurrence of the minister in
charge of the subject.
 (2) Regarding the staff needed to the perform the duties of the provincial unit, the chif secratary can assign
any officer who works in provncial public sector of within the North Westen Province.
5. The administration regarding all the activities and the duties are entrusted to the Secreary of Ministry of
subject in- charge of Local Government.
6. According  to the above mentioned section 4 an officer who is assingned in the Provincial Unit in addition to
his/her  permanent post can be paid extra payments or allowances in addition to their salary.
PART II
T
HE REGISTRATION AND SUPERVISION OF COMMUNITY BASED ORGANIZATIONS
7. (1) By the time this statute comes into effect, all the community based organizations operating, administrating
or engaging in any other activities regarding water supply or envionmental sanitary projects within the
province should get themselves registered by submitting an application before lapse of 3 months to
director of provincial unit.
(2) All the community based organizations willing to engage in any of the water supply projects or
environmental sanitation projects after the date on which this statute comes into effect should submit
an application to the director of the provincial unit prior to 14 days of the commencement of the project.
(3) The Director of the provincial unit should take steps regarding the applicaiton mentioned in the above
subsections (1) and (2) within 30 days, by registration or rejection with reasoning. Such rejection will
not be a barrier for the re-submission of the application.
8. (1) After getting registered, every community based organization should get an annual licence from the
provincial unit.
(2) A duly completed application should be submitted to the Director of the provincial unit to get the
licence. The Director of the provincial unit can ask for the bacterial and chemical assessment report of
the particular water source, the audit report of the community based organization or any other relevant
report if necessary.
(3) By taking into consideration the above reports and other related factors the decision, whether to issue
a licence or not, should be made by the Director of the provincial unit.
(4) If the licence is not to be issued, it should be informed in writing to the particular community based
organization along with the relevant report and proper reasoning by the Director of the provincial unit
within a month of time from the date, applicaiton is submitted.
(5) An appeal can be made to the secretary regarding such a rejected applicaiton within one month of time
from the date of rejection. And the secretary can make a suitable decision regarding the appeal.
(6) If a community based organization is found engaging in drinking water supply without a licence, it has
to be dealt in accordance with sectin 11 of this statute.
Establishment
of the
Provincial Unit
The Director
and the staff of
the Provincial
Unit
The
administration
of Provincial
Unit
The salaries
and incentives
of Provincial
Unit
The registration
of Community
Based
Organizations
Annual Licence

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
690
9. The authority for supervision, investigation and advisory of the activities, assets, and responsibilities of such
community bases organizations which are registered under section 7 of this statute, belongs tothe provincial
unit, or to the local government bodies in accordance with the guidance and suggestions made by the provincial
unit.
10. (1) The guidance and suggestions for the community based organizations which are registered under Section
7 can be made by the provincial minister in charge of the relevant subject.
(2) If it is found that any community based organization not following or purposely neglecting such
guidance and suggestions, the minister has the authority to appoint an investigation officer or a panel of
investigation under the section 11. The panel should consisted of individuals with experise knowledge
in order to investigate the matter in accordance with the recommendations of the Director of the unit.
(3) When the minister needs to get the requirements of this statute fulfilled he can impose directions.
(4) The minister can enact general as well as special directions regarding the provincial committee and
regional committees.
(5) While the provincial committee operationalizes its authorities and duties, the guiding and instrucitons
can be made by the minister as the same as they used to be.
(6) The relevant Minister has the authority to order any local government body to act according to the
section 11 of this statute.
11. (1) The assets and liabilities of any water supply or sanitation projects within the province run by the
community based organizations which are not registered under the regulations of section 7, those that
had not obtained the annual licence under Section 8 or those which are ordered by the Minister under the
sub-section of 10(2) can be taken over by the local government body.
(2) Any project taken over in this manner can be controlled by the same local government body, under the
patronage of the secretary of the relevant ministry, or can be handed over to a community based
organization reorganized in accordance with the regulations imposed by the secretary.
PART III
T
HE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PROVINCIAL COMMITTEE ON WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION, ITS
COMPOSITION AND ITS DUTIES.
12. A provincial committee regarding water supply and environmental sanitation, which is henceforth to be called
‘Provincial Committee’, can be established by the minister in charge of the relevant subject.
13. The Provincial Committee should be consisted of the following members :–
(1) The Chief Secretary of the Provincial Council as the Chairperson of the committee.
(2) The Director of the Provincial Unit as the Secretary of the Committee.
(3) The Secretary of the Provincial Ministry of Local Government.
(4) The Secretary of Provincial Ministry of Education
(5) The Deputy Chief Secretary of Engineering Services of North Western Province.
(6) The District Secretaries of Kurunegala and Puttalam Districts of their representatives.
(7) The Provincial Deputy General Manager of National Water Supply and Drainage Board
(8) The Commissioner of Local Government of North Western Province.
The Supervision
of Community
based
Organizations
The power
vested by the
Minister
Taking over of
community
Based
Organizations
Provincial
Committee
The
composition of
the Provincial
Committee

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'04'26
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
691
(9) The Provincial Director of Health Services of North Western Province.
(10) The Director of Provincial Environmental Authority of North Western Province.
(11) The Directors of the Department of Roads and Department of Highways of North Western Province.
(12) The Secretaries of Local Government bodies who operate drinking water supply and sanitation projects.
(13) The Chairpersons of District Forums of Community based organizations of Kurunegala and Puttalam
Districts.
(14) The chief of the existing or any expected drinking water supply and sanitation project to be functioned.
14. The duties of the Provincial committee are as follows
(1) Policymaking and activity planning regarding water supply and environmental sanitation.
(2) Determining water supply and environmental sanitation needs within the province.
(3) Approving the development plans presented by the provincial unit after reviewing or rejecting the
development plans if they are found unsuitable.
(4) Determining on the process of operation and maintenance of the existing water and environmental
sanitation.
(5) Submitting recommendations to the minister in charge of the relevant subject regarding funding the water
supply and environmental sanitation proposals and programmes.
(6) Obtaining the services and co-ordinating with the government, non government and private aiding
organization connected with activities related to water supply and environmental sanitation.
15. (1) The meetings should be held once in two months with the presence of all the members of the committee.
If necessary extra meetings can be called by the Secretary under the instructions of the Chairperson.
(2) The quorum for a Provincial Committee session must be minimum of 10 members.
PART IV
T
HE ESTABLISHMENT OF REGIONAL COMMITTEES REGARDING WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION, ITS
COMPOSITION AND POWERS
16. The regional committee regarding water supply and environmental sanitation, which is henceforth to be called
‘Regional Committee’, can be established in the Local body area.
17. The objective of the Regional Committees is to assist the Provincial Committee in policymaking and making
managerial decisions in order to ensure the sustainability of the water supply and environmental sanitation
projects needed for the welfare of the community living within the local body.
18. The Regional Committee should consist of the following members :
(1) The Chairman of the local government body as the Chairperson of the Regional Committee.
(2) The water and sanitary affairs officer of that local government institution as Secretary of the Regional
Committee.
(3) The Divisional Secretaries of the region or their representatives.
The duties of
the Provincial
Committee.
Regional
Committees.
The
composition of
the Regional
Committee.
The objective
of the Regional
Committees.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
692
(4) The Secretary of the Local Government body
(5) The Divisional Director of Education of the particular region.
(6) Regional Medical Officer of health or his representative
(7) A staff representative nominated by the Provincial Deputy General Manager of National Water supply
and Drainage Board.
(8) The Chairperson and the Secretary of the Regional Forum of Community based Organizations.
(9) The Divisional Officer of the Agrarian Services.
19. The duties of the Regional Committee within a local government territory are as follows ;
(1) Identifying the problems in drinking water supply and environmental sanitation needs and submitting
reports on them to the Provincial Committee.
(2) The supervision of the prevalence and progress of the existing water supply and environmental sanitation
projects.
(3) Supervising and conducting the activities of community based organizations.
(4) Inter coordination among community based organizations.
(5) Performing the duties assigned by the provincial committee.
20. (1) The Regional Committees have powers to perform the duties mentioned above in Section 19.
(2) The Regional Committees have powers to complete the duties assigned by the Provincial Committee
through the Director of the Provincial Unit.
(3) While the Regional Committees operationalize powers and duties, it is a must to act in accordance with
the general and special regulations made by the Provincial Committee.
21. (1) The meetings should be held once in two months with the presence of the members of the Regional
committee. If necessary extra meetings can be called by the Secretary under the instructions of the
Chairperson.
(2) The quorum of a committee meeting should be one third of the number of members.
(3) The procedures of the meetings can be designed by a Regional Committee itself.
PART V
T
HE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION UNIT
22. The Regional Water supply and Environmental Sanitation Unit, Which is henceforth to be called “Regional
Unit”, is needed for the implementation of this statute and for the fulfillment of the objectives and duties of
the Regional Committee. It can be established in the office of Local Government body.
23. The staff assistance to perform the duties of the Regional Unit established under Section 22 can be obtianed
from any person works in local government institutions within the North Western Province by assigning the
duty irrespective of the rank. The regulations to assign the duties should be imposed by the Commissioner of
Local Government.
The duties of
the Regional
Committee.
Powers of
Regional
Committee.
The meetings of
the Regional
Committees.
Regional Water
Supply and
Environmental
Sanitation Unit.
The staff of the
Regional Unit.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'04'26
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
693
24. The administration regarding all activities and duties performed by the Regional Unit is entrusted to the head
of the local body under the guidance of the Commissioner of Local Government and the Director of the
Provincial Unit.
25. According to the above mentioned Section 23 an officer who is assigned in the Regional Unit in addition to his/
her permanent post can be paid extra payments or allowances in addition to their salary.
PART VI
F
INANCIAL PROVISIONS
26. The financial provisions required for the implementation of this statute can be obtained through,
(1) The income-expenditure statements and budget estimates of the Provincial Council,
(2) The annual budgets of Local Government institutions,
(3) Non-governmental organizations, private institutions or any other external Sources,
(4) The funding given for the projects.
PART VII
G
ENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
27. All regulations imposed by the Minister under the section 10 of this statute in order to operationalize and
implement the regulations and policies should be published on the Gazette. The regulations should be
implemented from the date of the Gazette or the particular date specified in the order.
28. (1) All regulations imposed by the Minister should be submitted to the Provincial Council for the approval
as soon as possible after publishing on the  Gazette. If a regulation is not approved by the Provincial
Council,  it will be considered as an invalid regulation from the date of disapproval, yet the actions done
prior to that will not be harmed by that. When the regulation imposed by the minister becomes invalid,
the date of disapproval should be mentioned in the  Gazette.
(2) If a regulation approved by the Provincial Council, henceforth it should be considered valid. An
announcement regarding the approval should be published in the Gazette.
29. Those who act against or neglect or act barring the rules and regulations of this statute and the regulations
imposed by the same will be found guilty for offence under this statute.
30. The authority to file a case against the offence under this statute is possessed by the Director of the Unit or
the Officer whom he assigns the authority to.
31. Anyone who is found guilty according to this statute can be fined an amount not less than 5,000 and not more
than 20,000 and/or can be sentenced to maximum 6 months of imprisonment before a Magistrate.
PART VIII
I
NTERPRETATION
32. According to this statute the following terms refer to:
(1) ‘Province’ means the North Western Province,
(2) ‘Governor’ means the Governor of North Western Province.
The
Administration
of the
Regional Unit.
The salaries and
incentives of
Regional Unit.
Financial
Provisions.
Publishing the
regulations in
the Gazette.
Receiving
Approval for
regulations
from the
Provincial
Council.
Offences.
The authority to
file cases.
Penalty.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
694
(3) ‘Minister’ means The Minister in-charge of the subject of Local Government of the Provincial Council
of North Western Province ;
(4) ‘Chief Secretary’ means The Chief Secretary of North Western Province ;
(5) ‘Secretary’ means The Secretary of the ministry in-charge of the subject of Local Government of the
North Western Province ;
(6) ‘Commissioner’ means The Commissioner of the Local Government of the North Western Province.
(7) ‘National Water Supply and Drainage Board’ means the National Water Supply and Drainage Board
established under the Ordinance No. 2 of 1974 ;
(8) ‘Community based Organizations’ means the organizations established and registered under the relevant
law or this statute representing a community of beneficiaries for the management and service supply in
water supply and environmental sanitation ;
(9) ‘The divisional Forum of Commnunity based Organizations’ means the organization established
representing every community based organization within area of the Local Government body ;
(10) ‘The District Forum of Community based Organizations’ means the Organization established representing
every regional community based organization ;
(11) ‘W ater supply’ means Except the occasion of supply such as for animals or for washing vehicles, where
such animals or vehicles are kept for sale or hire or a supply for any trade, manufacture or business, or
fountains or swimming baths or for any ornamental or mechanical purpose or for -purposes of irrigation,
A supply of water to beneficiaries to build up community based organization for construction and
implementation drinking water project constructed by the Government, Semi Government or Non
Governmental organization or community participation or mediation ;
(12) ‘Environmental Sanitation’ means administration of the projects regarding water supply, sanitation and
drainage systems directly conducted/implemented or mediated by government, semi-government or
non-government organizations ;
(13) ‘Provincial Council’ means North Western Provincial Council ;
(14) ‘Provincial Unit’ means Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Unit of North Western Provincial
Council.
33. If there is a contradiction between the Sinhala, Tamil and English versions of this Statute, the Sinhala version
should be taken as the valid one.
Sinhala texts to
prevail in case
of
inconsistency
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
04-812