

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2354$18 - 2023 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 18 jeks nodod - 2023'10'18
No. 2354/18 -  wedNesday ,  OCTOBeR  18,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial Councils Notifications
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1a -  PG 6504 — 21 (10/2023)
NOTIfICATION  mADE  UNDER  ARTICLE  154C  AND  SUb-SECTION  19(5)  Of  PROVINCIAL 
COUNCILS  ACT,  No.  42  Of  1987  READ  wITh  ARTICLE  154 f  Of  ThE  CONSTITUTION  Of 
ThE  DEmOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUbLIC  Of  SRI  LANkA
as per the powers vested in me under article 154 c and sub-section 19(5) of Provincial Councils act, No. 42 of 1987 read 
with article 154 f of the Constitution of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka, I hereby announce that rules to be 
adopted when development plans relevant to the summary year that utilize funds of the western Provincial Council Fund 
are formulated and implemented.
 Roshan Goonethileke,
 RwP and Bar VsV UsP
 Phd (Hons) FIM (sri Lanka) NdC, PsC,
 Marshal of the sri Lanka air Force,
 Governor,
 western Province.
At Governor's Office, Western Province,
Located in the western Provincial Council Building,
Battaramulla,
On 16
th day of October, 2023.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'18
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 18.10.2023
2a
Rules
1. These rules will be enforced to regulate the criteria relevant to formulation and implementation of development 
plans for certain financial year relevant to the Provincial Council fund and to repeal the rules relevant to formulation 
and implementation of development plans relevant to the w estern Provincial Fund published by the Extraordinary 
Gazette   No. 2190/25 dated 25
th  august 2020 of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
2. These rules shall be cited as Rules relating to Formulation and Implementation of development Plans relevant to 
the w estern Provincial Council Fund, No. 01 of 2023.
3. It is hereby ordered that each provincial ministry of the w estern Province shall conform to the following stated 
criteria when annual development plan and the action plan relating to the Western Provincial Fund for a financial 
year is formed.
 (1) at the time of forming the annual development plan relevant to the w estern Provincial Council Fund, 
development proposals relevant to the w estern Province that accords to the National Policy Framework 
should be taken into consideration.
 (2) Development plan should be formed to achieve the main thrust areas that have already been identified 
in the middle-term sectarian framework, sustainable development objectives and targets.
 (3) when development programs are implemented, in order to prevent project duplication, attention 
should be paid to form plans that fall directly within the subject area of the ministry. Priority should be 
given herein to assign the project authority and the implementation authority to the relevant institution 
functioning under the relevant ministry.
 (4) when implementing development projects, all the projects should be subjected to supervision of the 
relevant project authority.
 (5) attention should be paid to preservation of sustainability and productivity of projects.
 (6) To implement training and capacity development programs, having prepared a detailed project report 
inclusive of an estimate, approval should be obtained to it from the project authority. This procedure 
shall be followed up to Five Million Rupees and with regard to projects that exceed this value, measures 
should be taken according to instructions issued from time to time through circulars.
 (7) (i)  when planning for new construction projects that spans for several years, the total approximate 
estimation of the project and the work-load expected to be completed in each year should be 
forwarded.
  (ii)  Projects that are expected to be completed within a year should not be initiated without proper  
 planning as to how total provisions for the project shall be raised.
 (8) when submitting proposal to renovate or construct a property, it shall belong to a Government or 
semi-government institution. similarly, prior to allocating provisions for construction and renovation 
of buildings, satisfaction should be established with regard to clear utilization of such property in future. 
Moreover, a clear process as to how such construction be maintained in future needs to be formed.
 (9)  In addition to the tasks stated for relevant sections, when submitting project proposals relating to timely 
requirements and special occasions, a justification report along with a recommendation of the relevant 
Provincial secretary to the Ministry or authority in charge of Operations should be forwarded to the 
Chief secretary. The Chief secretary should give his approval to implement the said project where he 
is satisfied regarding the said justification report.

<!-- page 3 -->

3a
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'18
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 18.10.2023
 (10) Based on the justification and recommendation of the Authority in charge of Operations, Provisions 
can be allocated for development and construction of Government registered public buildings where 
provincial services are provided.
 (11) Provisions allocated through the Provincial development program should not be utilized for training 
of officers and they should be referred only to be used as Capital Expenditure.
4. When identifying and approving proposals under the subject of education, the following criteria should be confirmed 
to.
 (1) w ithout duplicating with the projects implemented by deploying other sources of fund, compulsory 
development affairs of schools including building construction and development affairs, constructing 
protective gates, sanitary affairs and supply of drinking water, construction and development of 
playground and kids' grounds, and, on recommendation of Zonal director of education providing 
compulsory goods and equipment such as computers, desks, chairs, musical instruments, sports 
equipment and lab equipment and repairing of existing equipment can be carried out.
 (2) For the students who find it difficult to buy books and educational equipment due to low family income 
level, educational equipment such as books, pens and pencils, mathematical sets, books and bags etc. 
can be provided subject to a maximum of Ten Thousand Rupees per a student per year. subsequent 
to obtaining the recommendation from the Grama Niladhari and Principal with regard to the income 
status of the family, such donation shall be provided to the relevant student through the class teacher, 
Other students of the school should not be informed about such donation and care should be taken to 
refrain from providing students generally with books and equipment utilizing these funds.
 (3) Taking measures to conduct seminars and training workshops to develop and assess knowledge, skills 
and attitudes of students, teachers and principals of provincial council schools. The Zonal director of 
Education should confirm that the resource persons selected for the said workshops are experts in the 
relevant subject fields.
 (4) when conducting training programs and seminars that target examinations, they should be planned to 
be able to conduct within proper time periods that ensure the achievement of expected targets of such 
programs.
 (5) Implementable projects should be as follows.
 (6) Providing physical resources to offices that are related to the field of education and directly provide 
contribution to maintain the school system efficiently, also, development of such offices and taking 
measures to conduct training workshops for officers in such offices upon requirement. Herein, related 
tasks should be carried out on recommendation of Provincial director of education and on approval 
of the provincial secretary of education. (when obtaining resource personnel for training workshops, 
the Zonal Director of Education and Provincial Director of Education should confirm that the resource 
persons selected for the said workshops are experts in the relevant subject fields.) 
(i) Conducting Fifth Grade scholarship support programs.
(ii) Presenting proposals that correspond to National Policies when planning special programs 
to direct children who leave school education to vocational education that correspond to 
their skills.
(iii) Providing compulsory equipment required by special and non-formal education units.
(iv) Buildings of pre-schools conducted under the Government, Provincial Councils and 
Local Government authorities can be developed. 

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'18
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 18.10.2023
4a
 (v) Conducting Pre-school teacher training programs subject to a maximum of Rupees One 
Hundred Fifty Thousand Rupees.
 (vi)  Under the Pre-schools statute, Providing desks, chairs and other compulsory equipment to 
pre-schools registered under the d ivisional s ecretariat subject to a maximum expenditure 
of Rupees Fifty Thousand. (These pre-school need to be ones that were in the business 
actively for minimum of 03 years and should be ones that do not earn a sufficient income 
to supply the compulsory equipment for the students to engage in learning activities.)
 (vii) Conducting programs to upgrade the nutrition status of school children who possess 
identified requirements, providing material aids and providing facilities for other 
requirements.
 (viii) Identifying programs to achieve National Food security and identifying programs for 
prevention of substance abuse at school level, planning and implementing such programs.
5. The following criteria could be corresponded to when identifying and approving proposals under the subject of land.
 (1) Presenting proposals for land renovation and development while paying major attention to environmental 
preservation.
 (2) Planning for capital type investments relevant to executing of laws and regulations related to lands, 
assignment of state lands on personal or institutional level and maintaining land related data, and 
presentation of such proposals.
 (3) Presenting proposals to develop public infrastructure facilities to uplift the living conditions of people 
living in settlements.
6. when identifying and approving proposals under the subject of Local Government and Provincial administration, 
the following criteria can be conformed to ;
 (1) development and maintenance of rural public roads in local government authority areas and, other 
development affairs such as small bridges and culverts in such roads.
 (2) Regulation and maintenance of community halls, weekly fairs, drinkable water supplies, library 
services, crematoriums, cemeteries; development and maintenance of local government services such 
as maternity clinics, pre-schools, playgrounds and gardens.
 (3) Raising awareness in people, management of waste, development and maintenance of public lavatories, 
drainage systems and canal ways to keep health and sanitary conditions in local government areas 
properly.
 (4) Providing facilities necessary to maintain the system of local authorities efficiently and properly.
 (5) Providing water and electricity facilities for community halls and public buildings situated in the lands 
belonging to the government and local authorities. 
 (6) Activities relating to empowerment of officers and community to improve the efficiency in local 
government program service providing and project implementation and to set direction to such.
 (7) Supplying the required machinery to improve the efficiency of Local authorities' service providing, 
and operating maintenance units.

<!-- page 5 -->

5a
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'18
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 18.10.2023
 (8) Providing waste separation bins  and compost bins required for waste management.
 (9) allocating provisions for large scale projects which cannot be accomplished by the Local authorities.
 (10) Providing facilities and equipment required for disaster management.
 (11) Providing chair and foldable tents subjected to a maximum of Rupees One Hundred Thousand to 
Community Boards (Praja Mandala) lacking chairs and foldable tents sufficiently. Which have been 
registered formally in the Pradeshiya sabha and maintained actively for more than two years.
7. Proposals under the subject of Agriculture can be identified and approved confirming to the criteria mentioned below.
 (1) To increase the productivity of agricultural-crop production in the province, providing agricultural 
equipment to the registered farmer organizations up to a maximum of Rupees Five Hundred Thousand 
consisting a 30% contribution from the beneficiaries from the total value.
 (2) Providing seeds, cultivation media and inputs for the farmers to increase productivity of agricultural-
crop production in the province up to a maximum contribution of Rupees One Hundred Thousand 
from the Government consisting a  30% beneficiary-contribution from the total value.
 (3) Presenting project proposals relevant to sales promotions of the agricultural crops produced.
 (4) Presenting project proposals related to increasing the consumption of organic fertilizers in order to 
popularize the use of non-toxic quality vegetables and fruits at the household level.
 (5) Presenting necessary project proposal for value added products and providing market facilities for 
them.
 (6) Conducting training programs for farmers, farmer organizations and the officers related to extension 
services.
 (7) Conducting training programs for the promotion of home gardens as models in the localities of schools, 
Home and government institutions and providing inputs when required.
 (8) Taking measures to increase crop production and productivity in the province by making quality seeds, 
cultivation media and inputs abundantly available.
 (9) Implementation of projects to promote agribusinesses and entrepreneurship and to reduce post-harvest 
damages.
 (10) submitting proposals to persuade the youth community towards agriculture.
 (11) Presentation of environmental-friendly agricultural proposals.
 (12) Implementing programs related to effective use of uncultivated land for cultivation purposes.
 (13) Popularizing among farmers improved seeds and cultivation media that have been improved to withstand 
climate change.
 (14) educating people on how to carry out cultivation in such a way as to have minimal impact on the 
environment.
 (15) Imparting modern agricultural knowledge to farmers.
 (16) submitting project proposals for the construction and development of buildings of agricultural sector.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'18
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 18.10.2023
6a
 (17)  Providing necessary facilities for agricultural research activities and experiments in the w estern 
Province.
 (18) Carrying out necessary activities to maintain the farms operating under the department of agriculture 
of w estern Province as integrated Farms.
 (19)  Providing agricultural machinery for the farms operating under the department of agriculture of 
w estern Province and maintaining continuous service supply.
8. Proposals under the subject of Minor Irrigation should be identified and approved conforming to the criterion 
mentioned below.
 (1) Providing necessary facilities to carry water to the agriculture lands when providing water supply to 
lands in which agricultural works are carried out.
 (2) Maintenance and development of existing and new irrigation works and construction of new irrigation 
works so as to obtain maximum labour contribution.
 (3) Conducting programs to impart knowledge about water management to the farming community.
 (4)  submitting project proposals for constructions related to minor irrigations or irrigation of which 
renovations are expected to be completed or other elements.
 (5) Constructing agricultural roads and tractor bunds to access agricultural lands.
 (6) Purchasing Mechanical equipment related to constructions and maintenance of irrigation and carrying 
out continuous service supply.
9. Proposals under the subject of Industries should be identified and approved conforming to the criterion mentioned 
below.
 (1) Support can be provided for the purchase of necessary inputs and technical equipment for specifically 
identified projects of a registered active society on small industries in order to encourage local traditional 
industries covering various ranges and to improve the quality of those products. a contribution of 30% 
of the value should be borne by the concerned society and the maximum amount of assistance that can 
be given is Rupees Three Hundred Thousand. In this regard, the recommendation of an officer with 
technical knowledge on the relevant industry is mandatory along with the project report. In addition to 
this, if equipment is provided to a beneficiary engaged in traditional local industry, it shall be provided 
beneficiary on beneficiary contribution of 30% and subjected to a maximum of Rupees One Hundred 
Thousand.
 (2) Contributing to introduce a market for the sale of craftsmen's products, establishing and developing 
trade centers and conducting mobile market and exhibitions.
 (3) Providing facilities required to introduce and implement modern technological methods.
 (4) Most appropriate resource person should be selected according to the target group when conducting 
training programs to improve skills of those who engaged in industries. The prior approval of the 
project or implementing authority should be obtained in that regard according to the nature of the 
project. The resource person should be an expert who has vocational skills related to the concerned 
filed and possess certificates awarded from a recognized institution. In the event the resource person 
cannot produce such recognized certificates yet a skilled craftsman, the prior approval of the Secretary 
of the ministry in charge of the relevant subject should be obtained.
 (5) Provisions can be offered for the persons who hope to engaged in a self-employment to undergo a 
training course subjected to a maximum of Rupees Fifty Thousand per individual and priority should 

<!-- page 7 -->

7a
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'18
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 18.10.2023
be given those who have not been covered by any such scheme and persons who have not received such 
sponsored allowance before including the low income earners who belong to following categories.
(i) Persons within the age of 18-45 years in low income earning families.
(ii) Matriarchal
(iii)  Persons with special needs
(6) Providing self-employment equipment subjected to a maximum of Rupees One Hundred Thousand 
as Government contribution and on minimum beneficiary contribution of 20% when providing direct 
grants as self-employment equipment under the Provincial Development financial resource for low 
income earners.
Regardless of what is stated under this section, under specific circumstances, the Chief Secretary may 
decide the percentage of minimum contribution which lies at 20% by taking into account the facts 
presented by the secretary of the Ministry in charge of the relevant subject.
Also, the list of beneficiaries who receive direct grants should be submitted for approval and should 
function to encourage small and medium-scale industrialists in the western Province, provide them 
with entrepreneurship training and technical training, providing financial service and financial credit 
facilities, and to prepare a pension scheme for them and should conduct programs to network the 
information of the traders and the inventors of the province must be gathered and programs should be 
conducted for them and they should be linked with the central government institutions and focus on 
making them contribute to the national development, under which only the capital goods related to 
the project should be given. Consumer goods should not be provided.
10. Proposals under the subject of Environmental Affairs should be identified and approved confirming to the criteria 
mentioned below.
 (1) sustainable maintenance of the existing ecosystem in the western Province.
 (2) Creation of ecological gardens including urban bowers, forests and herb gardens for the provincial 
community. 
 (3) Creating green-strips alongside the roads.
 (4) e stablishing joint operations for environmental development by involving government, non-government 
and private institutions, creating green villages and herbal medicine villages.
 (5) Conserving and enhancing aquatic ecosystem such as water sources, streams and brooks, tanks and 
ponds, coastal lines and lagoons.
 (6) Implementing programs in coordination with stake holder institutions/ individuals to identify and solve 
critical environmental issues in the western Province.
 (7) Celebrating the environment day.
 (8) Implementing national level environmental programs and connected projects.
 (9) Implementing programs to conserve flora and fauna species endangered and threatened with extinction.
11. The following criteria may be followed in identifying and approving proposals under the subject of Culture and 
artistic affairs.
 (1) Introducing project proposals that assist preserving the existing cultural endowment and heritage in 
the province and bequeath them to future generations.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'18
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 18.10.2023
8a
 (2) Provisions may be allocated subject to a maximum of Rupees Five Hundred thousand for the essential 
development activities of registered religious places of worship and sunday schools with lesser facilities. 
In that case, priority should be given to religious places of worship and dhamma schools that did not 
receive funding earlier. 
 (3) Necessary equipment can be provided to continue dhamma school activities of the registered dhamma 
schools with lesser facilities and on the recommendation of the Cultural Officers of the Western 
Provincial Council Public service of the relevant divisional secretariat, the maximum amount that 
can be allocated for One dhamma school once in three years is Rupees Two Hundred Thousand.
 (4)  a  maximum provision of Rupees Two Hundred Thousand may be allocated to provide materials required 
for a festival that preserves and promotes traditional dances and other arts or one traditional dance 
troupe. where provisions are to be made beyond the maximum provision limit, relevant allocations 
shall be made after obtaining the approval of the Provincial Planning Committee.
 (5)  arrangements to allocate provisions to provide relevant musical instruments for government registered 
art institutes under 20% beneficiary contribution up to a maximum of Rupees One Hundred Thousand 
on the recommendation of the Provincial Cultural Officer.
 (6) Implementation of Project proposal that help in the development and promotion of Cultural Centers 
owned by the Provincial Council.
 (7) allocating a maximum of Rupees Four Hundred Thousand at the regional level to appraise person 
who have shown exceptional abilities in various fields of cultural and art and in order to implement 
provincial or district level programs exceeding the said maximum limit, the Chief secretary shall 
approve the proposals in cases where he is satisfied with the recommendations of the Secretary of the 
Ministry in charge of the subject.
 (8) Planning programs by allocating a maximum of Rupees Two Hundred Thousand at the regional level 
for improvement of aesthetic appreciation skills and artistic abilities of the community. However, in 
cases where the Chief Secretary is satisfied on the recommendation of the Secretary of the Ministry in 
charge, the maximum allocation limit may be exceeding up to Rupees Five Hundred Thousand with 
the approval of the Chief secretary.
 (9) sponsorship may be given for preservation and promotion of traditional dances and other artistic 
activities, also, for holding Peraheras published by the Gazette under religious, cultural and arts affairs 
or held historically over a period of time. while selecting these, the recommendation of the provincial 
Cultural Officers should be obtained, and these projects should be implemented under the Provincial 
Ministry of Cultural affairs or an appropriate authority. 
 (10) Provisions up to a maximum of Rupees One Hundred Thousand may be allocated for the annual literary 
festivals organized by the divisional secretariats and held at divisional and district levels and matters 
incidental thereto.
 (11) Providing one-time financial assistance subject to a maximum of Rupees One Hundred Thousand for 
appreciating artists who are residents of w estern Province and who had accomplished a special mission 
and who have become aged or faced total or partial disability or other such calamity. 
 (12) The following criteria shall be followed in identifying and approving proposals under the subject of 
Health and Indigenous Medicine.
(1) Implementation of projects proposed for the construction or renovation of hospitals, 
offices of Medical Officer of Health, Central Dispensaries pharmaceutical stores, 

<!-- page 9 -->

9a
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'18
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 18.10.2023
quarters, clinical buildings, internal access roads, sewage system and other 
infrastructure related to the health sector.
(2) Provisions of equipment and machinery necessary for the proper running of public 
health services in government health institutions.
(3) Implementation of training programs awareness programs and productivity programs 
to strengthen and improve the quality of disease prevention and curative services 
programs and conducting programs to improve the nutritional status and hygiene of 
pregnant women, children under 5 years of age and school children of low-income 
families.
(4) Introduction of necessary technology to strengthen disease prevention and curative 
services.
(5) Preservation and development of traditional medical practices.
(6) Taking measures to improve herbal gardens and medicinal drug production.
(7) Providing material or financial assistance up to a maximum of Rupees One Hundred 
Thousand including beneficiary contribution of 25% thereof per each low-income 
earning family to improve their sanitation facilities.
 (13) Following criteria shall be followed in identifying and approving proposals under the subject of 
Probation and Child Care services.
(1) ensuring the daily needs and welfare of children under probation.
(2) Implementation of programs necessary for the development of knowledge and skills 
of children in the socialization of children under probation care.
(3) Taking necessary measures to prevent children getting under probation care.
(4) Construction or renovation of buildings and registered Children's Homes belonging 
to the Probation department.
(5) Implementation of training programs and awareness programs required to improve 
the quality and efficiency of staff that should be made aware of the protection and 
care of orphaned, abandoned, helpless and abused children.
(6) Providing a government contribution of up to a maximum Rupess One Hundred 
Thousand to provide self-employment equipment to parents, guardians of children 
from low income earning families under a minimum beneficiary contribution of 20% 
in order prevent children from getting under institutional care and providing shelter 
within the family itself.
 (14) Following criteria should be followed in identifying and approving proposals under the subject of 
electricity and energy.
(1) extending and modernizing the electrical wiring system, transferring single-phase 
electricity into three-phase electricity, establishing electrical sub-stations and shifting 
electrical poles.
(2) Providing a maximum of Rupees Thirty-Five Thousand to provide electricity from 
the National Grid to low income-earning households, comprising school-attending 

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'18
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 18.10.2023
10a
children and persons with special needs on the recommendation of the divisional 
secretary. These payments should be made only to the institutions that provide 
electricity connection.
(3) Introduction of alternative energy sources, development and connection to the 
National Grid where necessary.
(4) Providing electricity to public service facilities and community halls located on 
government lands owned by local authorities or entrusted to local authorities.
 (15) Following criteria should be followed in identifying and approving proposals under the subject of 
Provincial Roads.
(1) Construction of C and d type roads anew, development of existing roads and proper 
maintenance of roads.
(2) during road development, construction of drainage system on both sides of the road, 
reconstruction of culverts and small bridges to protect its sustainability during road 
development.
(3) Construction and development of provincial roads, small bridges, culverts and 
drainage systems.
(4) Installation of formal road signs as per the requirement on the recommendations of 
relevant institutions. 
 (16) Following criteria should be followed in identifying and approving proposals under the subject of 
housing and construction.
(1) subject to a maximum of Rupees One Hundred Thousand and a minimum of Rupees 
Thirty Thousand, a sponsorship amount or material assistance can be provided 
to one beneficiary family for completion of remaining work or repair work of a 
home subsequent to getting the ownership of the land confirmed. In case of special 
Disaster situations (such as landslides, fires, cyclones, floods etc.) a maximum sum 
of Rupees Five Hundred Thousand may be obtained subject to the approval of the 
Chief secretary under the special recommendation of the divisional secretary.
In selecting the beneficiaries for the above entitlements, priority should be given 
to families that meet one or more of the following matters. These facts should be 
confirmed by a certificate obtained from the Grama Niladhari.
(i) Being low income earning people with school attending children and 
disabled persons.
(ii) destitution due to death of the breadwinner of the family.
(iii) Low income earning family headed by a woman.
 (17) The following criteria should be followed in identifying and approving proposals under the subject of 
social w elfare.
(1) Taking necessary measures for the welfare and spiritual development of persons 
deprived of social privileges due to sickness, old age, disability or orphan hood and 
senior citizens.

<!-- page 11 -->

11a
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'18
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 18.10.2023
(2) w elfare and death relief organizations which are important for social welfare such as 
elderly societies and elderly authority boards formally registered with the government 
can be given essential equipment only to up to a maximum of Rupees One Hundred 
Thousand.
(i) That equipment should be used for public welfare purposes and should 
be included in the inventory register of the relevant institution.
(ii) In obtaining above equipment, they should be duly delivered and 
documented on the recommendation of the concerned divisional 
secretary.
(3) Providing necessary equipment to elderly homes and rehabilitation homes of disabled 
persons.
(4) Conducting awareness programs to elderly and disadvantaged communities getting 
under institutional care and conducting general community awareness programs on 
issues faced by such elderly and disadvantaged community. Conducting spiritual 
development programs for elderly residents in elder's Homes.
(5) Financial provisions may be allocated for self-employment equipment and training 
programs to prevent disadvantaged communities in the workforce from getting 
under institutional care. such provision may be made on the recommendation of the 
Provincial Director of Social Services or a regional officer nominated by him/her.
(6) Implementation of training and awareness programs required to improve the quality 
and efficiency of staff that should be aware of the care and safety of senior citizens 
and disadvantaged communities in the western Province.
(7) For the development of facilities for low-income earning disabled persons, matriarchal 
families and families with sick persons such as patients of (cancer, kidney diseases) 
in the houses they live in, a maximum of Rupees Two Hundred Thousand may 
be allocated on recommendation of the Provincial Social Service Officer and the 
divisional secretary of the relevant division.
(8) Providing special support equipment to make their daily life easier for people with 
special needs especially school attending children from low income earning families 
subject to a maximum of Rupees One Hundred Thousand and providing special 
educational equipment for children with special needs engaged in higher education 
activities. This equipment should be tailored to their specific needs. In providing 
such equipment, the doctor's recommendation and the approval of the Provincial 
director of social services should be obtained.
(9) allocating provisions subject to a maximum of Rupees Fifty Thousand to conduct 
self-employment training courses by the western Provincial social services 
department for the residents of residential institutions, for persons with special 
needs and elderly persons. (Raw materials, resource-person allowances, etc.)
 (18) Following criteria should be followed in identifying and approving proposals under the subject of 
estate Infrastructure.
(1) In order to improve the living standards of the people living in the estates, a 
sponsorship amount of up to Rupees Thirty-Five Thousand per beneficiary family 
can be given to obtain electricity connection for houses belonging to low-income 

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'18
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 18.10.2023
12a
earning families with school children under the improvement of estate roads, water 
and electricity facilities. A certificate of income status should be obtained from the 
Grama Niladhari. This amount given obtain electricity to a house should be paid to 
the company that provides the electricity connection.
(2) In providing benefits for housing development of people living in estates, provisions 
may not be allocated to make direct grants.
(3) Estate routes should be clearly identified by a proper method. In this case roads 
available to access estate settlements should only be developed.
 (19) Following criteria should be followed in identifying and approving proposals under the subject of 
Transport.
(1) Construction and renovation of main bus yards other than bus station yards maintained 
by sri Lanka Transport Board.
(2) Providing quality service to the general public through the construction of passenger 
shelters on both sides of the road.
(3) Preparation and implementation of programs to reduce accidents caused by passenger 
transport buses, three-wheelers, school children transport service buses and staff 
transport service vehicles within the province.
(4) Training drivers and conductors to provide better service to the community and 
implementation of drug prevention programs in the transportation sector.
 (20) Following criteria shall be followed in identifying business proposals under the sports subject. also, 
project proposals covering the following areas should be identified.
(1) development of Non-school government owned playgrounds, sports centers and 
related infrastructure of the province.
(2) In order to develop the skills of stakeholders involved in sports of the w estern 
Province,
(i) Conducting sports educational programs
(ii) Formation of sports training squads and conduct of training programs
(iii)  Conducting sports competitions according to various events at 
Provincial district, divisional secretariat and Grama Niladhari 
division level.
(3) Conducting evaluation programs at regional, district and provincial levels to evaluate 
sportsmen and women who have shown exceptional abilities in the field of sports, 
sports officials and coaches who have contributed to it.
(4) On the recommendations of the Provincial Sports Director and a Sports Officer 
authorized by the secretary of the Provincial Ministry in Charge,
(i) Provision of sports equipment subject to a maximum of one Rupees 
Lakh Fifty Thousand per annum for the promotion of registered sports 
clubs and non-private gymnasiums,

<!-- page 13 -->

13a
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'18
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 18.10.2023
(ii) Providing sports equipment, sports clothing and other materials required 
for sports subject to a maximum of Rupees seventy-Five Thousand per 
year to encourage sportspersons who represent sports competitions at 
the provincial level or national level or have the potential for provincial 
or national level talent,
(iii) To meet the nutritional needs of low-income sportspersons in the 
province representing national level sports competitions, with the 
contribution of the private sector, providing nutritional assistance for 
a period of at least one year, subject to a maximum of Rupees Ten 
Thousand per month,
(iv) Provide financial assistance subject to a maximum of Rupees One 
Lakh to encourage provincial sportspersons who represent sri Lanka 
and achieve success in international level competitions,
(5) Implementation of projects required to improve the physical and mental health of 
the provincial people.
(6) Organizing stakeholders in the field of sports at regional, district and provincial 
levels and conducting related programs.
 (21) In identifying and approving proposals under the subject of youth affairs, the following criteria should 
be followed :-
(1) Conducting training programs for the development of professional skills of the youth 
community,
(2) Conducting programs to familiarize the youth community with modern technology,
(3) Conducting programs aimed at leadership, attitude and personality development in 
the youth community,
(4) When approving programs, approving them in the first two quarters of the year,
(5) Conducting programs for the youth community with the aim of drug prevention,
(6) Contribute to professional training aimed at local and foreign job markets,
 (22) In identifying and approving proposals under the subject of women's affairs, the following criteria 
should be followed :-
(1) Provision of capital allocation subject to a maximum Government contribution of 
Rs. 100,000 for low-income earning women who are self-employed or intending to 
start self-employment on a minimum beneficiary contribution of 20%,
(2) To Identify oppressed women and proposing projects to improve their standard of 
living,
(3) Conducting personality development, leadership workshops to gain prominence in 
economic, social and political environments,
(4) Conducting women's counseling programs.

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'18
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 18.10.2023
14a
 (23) In identifying and approving proposals under the subject of cooperative development, the following 
criteria should be followed :-
(1) development of business locations and implementation of quality product sales 
promotion programs in a manner that attracts customers,
(2) In order to promote the skills of officials engaged in the cooperative sector, deviating 
from traditional training and programs and design training programs that are suitable 
for competition,
(3) Presenting suitable projects to invest finances of the co-operative finance sectors in 
rural sectors,
(4)  Proposing programs to register school cooperative societies to impart subject 
knowledge on cooperatives to school children.
 (24) In identifying and approving proposals under the subject of water supplies and drainage, the following 
criteria should be followed :-
(1) Provision of suitable water facilities to the community to provide drinking water 
facilities,
(2) Provision of water facilities under community water projects,
(3) Construction and development of public wells used for drinking as well as for other 
purposes,
(4) Provision of water facilities to suitable places as per requirement,
(5) Identifying the viability of water sources and testing water quality.
 (25) In identifying and approving proposals under the fisheries subject, the following criteria should be 
followed :-
(1) To reduce the nutritional deficiencies of the rural people and to increase the production 
of fish, to provide fishing gear and equipment to those involved in the freshwater 
and small-scale saltwater fishing industry at a rate of 30% beneficiary contribution 
up to a maximum of Rupees One Hundred Thousand every three years,
(2) Submission of projects to promote the sale of fish,
(3) designing facilities for storage and retention of surplus products,
(4) Making proposals for the promotion of ornamental fish industry,
(5) Making proposals for the expanion of agriculture in brackish water and lagoons,
(6) Promotion of value-added manufacturing industries related to fisheries,
(7) Conducting training programs and seminars for the fishing community,
(8) Submission of projects for the social welfare of fishing communities,
(9) Construction and development of Ministry buildings used for fisheries purposes.

<!-- page 15 -->

15a
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'18
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 18.10.2023
 (26) In identifying and approving proposals under the fisheries subject of rural development, the following 
criteria should be followed :-
(1) Improvement of rural infrastructure including specifically identified small roads, 
foot bridges, small bridges and culverts, rural market facilities, community water 
projects within a local government area which are not private property,
(2) Providing equipment subjected to a maximum of Rupees Two Hundred Thousand 
for Rural development societies which have been actively maintained for more than 
two years and currently lacking sufficient number of chairs and foldable tents (mobile 
tents) on the recommendation of Rural Development Officer who has been authorized 
by the secretary to the Ministry in charge of the subject of Rural development and 
formally registered in the Provincial Council,
(3) By bringing together the voluntary societies established at rural level and building 
up proper coordination among them, creating a network required for community 
development and taking actions to develop knowledge, skills and attitudes, 
(4) a  maximum of Rupees seventy Five Thousand can be provided for the provision 
of water and electricity facilities to village development society Halls. These 
investments should be made after receiving the formal confirmation regarding future 
monthly bill payments with a proper recommendation from the Rural development 
Officers,
(5) when money is allocated by the Ministry of Roads to rural-level Local Government 
roads under the subject of rural development, the relevant operational authorities 
should obtain the consent of the Local Government Institution prior to implementing 
the project,
(6) when money is allocated by the Ministry of Roads to rural-level Local Government 
roads under the subject of rural development, the relevant operational authority should 
obtained the consent of the Local Government Institution prior implementing the 
project,
(7) To provide necessary facilities to direct the products of trainees related to sewing 
centers, to the product market,
(8) Introduction of new technology for sewing Industry and provision of equipment to 
the centers,
(9) Provision of necessary training, technology and etc. to micro industries,
(10) Provide opportunity for training requirements of the Rural Development Officers,
(11) To increase the nutrition levels of the low-income earning members' families of 
Rural development societies and to conduct drug prevention programs through the 
intervention of the membership of the Rural development societies.
 (27) In identifying and approving the proposals under tourism promotion the following criteria should be 
followed.
(1) Improving the infrastructure facilities of the places of tourist attraction in the province,
(2) Carrying out promotional activities related to places of tourist attractions and tourism 
industry,

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'18
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 18.10.2023
16a
(3) Promotion of jobs related to tourism sector,
(4) Conduct training programs in order to provide quality services related to the tourism 
sector,
(5) Implementation of programs to coincide the celebration of International Tourism 
day,
(6) Conduct programs to improve the quality of the products produced targeting the 
tourists and sales promotion of such products,
(7) Promotion of eco-tourism industry and related infrastructure development,
(8) Provision of infrastructure required for sustainable community based development 
project,
(9) In granting provisions for projects implemented on state lands that do not belong 
to the provincial council, the consent must be obtained from the relevant institution 
that owns the land.
 (28) In identifying and approving proposals under the subject of animal Production, the following criteria 
should be followed :-
(1) To maintain a healthy animal population to supply meat, milk and eggs to the people,
(2) Presenting project proposals for the use of technical methods of raise high quality 
animals and increase production and popularize them among farmers,
(3) Implementation of project proposals required to increase the income levels of the 
farmers engaged in animal husbandry,
(4) when providing inputs or animals with regards to this subject as direct, according 
to the recommendation of a technical committee, planning to give a maximum of 
Rupees Fifty Thousand under a beneficiary-contribution of 30%, and in addition, 
maximum contribution of the government when giving direct grants can be provided 
under the following points :
(i) Financial assistance or material assistance can be provided to a value 
of Rupees One Hundred Fifty Thousand as the maximum Government 
contribution with a minimum of 30% of beneficiary contribution to 
construct a cow shed which is capable of housing three cows,
(ii) Financial assistance or material assistance can be provided to a value 
of Rupees Two Hundred Thousand as the maximum government 
contribution with a minimum of 30% of beneficiary contribution to 
construct a cow shed which is capable of housing five cows,
(iii) Financial assistance may be provided for the purchase of a cow or 
she-buffalo with a minimum beneficiary-contribution of 30% and under 
a maximum Government contribution of Rupees One Hundred Fifty 
Thousand, or else animals,
(5) Presentation of project proposals for promotion of value added products,

<!-- page 17 -->

17a
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'18
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 18.10.2023
(6) Under the criteria of maintaining livestock farm with minimum environmental 
pollution and planning methods for waste disposal, a maximum of Rupees One 
Hundred Forty Thousand can be provided under Government contribution of 70% 
and beneficiary contribution of 30% as direct grants for an eight cubic meter biogas 
unit,
(7) establishment of milk collection centers, sales centers and storage facilities,
(8) Conducting training and capacity development programs for farmers and officers in 
the field of animal husbandry,
(9) Implementation of programs related to commencement and maintenance of small 
and medium scale private livestock farms,
(10) Construction, development and renovation of buildings related to livestock production 
activities,
(11) Implementation of programs for prevention and control of farm animals' diseases in 
the western Province,
(12) Implementation of animal feed production.
 (29) Rules related a preparation and implementation of development plans relevant to the western Provincial 
Council Fund date 24
th of august 2020 included in the Extraordinary Gazette paper No. 2190/25 dated 
25th august 2020 of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka and, will be repealed hereby with 
effect from the date these rules shall come into force.
eOG 10-0186
PRinteD at the DeP aRtMent  oF GoVeRnMent  PRintinG,  sRi lanka.