

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2014
223
223
wxl 1"849 - 2014 fmnrjdß 07 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'02'07
No. 1,849 – FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 07, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 226
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 233
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 28th February, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 13th
February, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— (i) Parts I-III, III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,848 of 31.01.2014 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2014
224
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2014
225
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2014
226
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Cancellation of Gazette Notice for Recruitment of Registrar of Marriage, Birth and Death
KANDY   DISTRICT
IT is kindly notified that the Gazette notice for recruitment for the post of Marriage, Birth and Death Registrar, following schedule which
was published by me in the Gazette No. 1,831 dated 04.10.2013 is cancelled.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which
Division Applications are called
Kandy Y atinuwara Post of Birth and Death Registrar of Yatinuwara Medapalatha Division and Post of
Marriage Registrar of Udapalatha (Kandyan/General)
Kandy Y atinuwara Post of Birth and Death Registrar of Yatinuwara Medapalatha Division and Post of
Marriage Registrar of Udapalatha (Kandyan/General)
02–178
––––––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  POLICE   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Police Constable and Police Constable Driver (Special Task Force)
AS per the General Gazette No. 1,844 of 03.01.2014 pubilshed in the Section I para (IIA) mentioned from the pages from 03 to 10, under
the heading of the above said posts, closing date of the application accepted is extended to 01.03.2014.
Inspector General of Police.
Police Headquarters,
Colombo 01,
22nd January, 2014.
02–191
––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KURUNEGALA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2014
227
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 07th  March, 2014.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
19th January, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kurunegala Narammala Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Narammala Area in Dambadeni General, District Secretariat,
Hathpattuwa Division Kurunegala.
02–128
–––––––––––––––
JUDICIAL  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Applications are called in terms of the Muslim Marriage
and Divorce Act (Chapter 115) for the recruitment of
Quazis for the areas indicated in the following schedule
PERSONS with following qualifications may apply.
Any Muslim male who is a graduate of a recognized university or
a Maulavi holding a certificate from an institution recognized by the
Ministry of in charge of Muslim Religions and Cultural Affairs or a
holder of the Al-Alim certificate issued by the Department of
Education or an Attorney-at-Law or a holder of other similar
qualification or a retired public servant who has held office in staff
grade.
A person currently holding a permanent post in the public service
shall not be eligible to apply.
Applicants should be married persons over 40 years, should be
physically fit and of good character and standing in the community
and possessing a sound knowledge of the law relating to Muslim
Marriage and Divorce.
The selected candidate will be appointed for a period, which will
be specified in the letter of appointment.
It is a legal requirement that a Quazi should reside in the area for
which he is appointed.
A Quazi will be paid a monthly allowance of Rs. 6,000 and an all
exclusive allowance of Rs. 5,000 per month for the cost of support
services, stationary and postal expenses.
Applications, as per specimen below, should be sent by registered
post to reach me on or before 06th March, 2014 with words “Quazi”
written on the top left hand corner of the envelope. Originals of
documents should not be forwarded with the application.
S
ISIRA RATNAYAKA,
Secretary (Acting),
Judicial Service Commission.
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat,
P. O. Box 573,
Colombo 12,
21st January, 2014.
SCHEDULE
01. Ninthavur - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Ninthavur D. S.
Division in Ampara district under (Chapter 115) the Muslim
Marriage and Divorce Act.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2014
228
02. Monaragala - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Zone of
Monaragala under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
03. Hambantota - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Zone of
Hambantota under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
04. Eravur - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Eravurpatthu
Revenue Division in the Batticaloa District under (Chapter
115) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
05. Polonnaruwa - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Zone of
Polonnaruwa under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
06. Colombo North - Applications are called by the Judicial
Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in Fort, Pettah,
Maradana, Suduwella, Borella, Kuppiyawatta, Dematagoda,
Maligakanda, Madampitiya, Modara, Mattakkuliya, Cotta
Road, Kolonnawa, Angoda and Wellampitiya areas in the
Colombo Judicial Division under (Chapter 115) the Muslim
Marriage and Divorce Act.
07. Colombo West - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in Dehiwala, Mount-
Lavinia, Ratmalana, Nugegoda, Papiliyana, Maharagama,
Pannipitiya, Homagama, Polgasovita, Ingiriya, Rajagiriya,
Battaramulla and Athurugiriya areas in the Colombo Judicial
Division under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
08. Addalachenai - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Addalachenai D. S.
Division in Ampara District under (Chapter 115) the Muslim
Marriage and Divorce Act.
09. Nawalapitiya - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in Udabulathgama Revenue
division in Kandy District and Hapugastalawa area in Nuwara-
Eliya District under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
10. Puttalam and Chilaw - Applications are called by the Judicial
Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Puttalam
and Chilaw Judicial Division (Except the Kalpitiya D. S.
Division) in Puttalam District under (Chapter 115) the
Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
11. Muttur (Koddiyarpattu) - Applications are called by the
Judicial Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in the
Revenue Division of Koddiyarpattu in Trincomalee District
under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
12. Akurana - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in Akurana D. S. Division
in Kandy District under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage
and Divorce Act.
13. Colombo South - Applications are called by the Judicial
Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in Slave Island,
Cinnamon Garden, Kollupitiya, Bambalapitiya, Havelock
Town, Narahenpita, Wellawatta and Kirulapone in the Judicial
Zone of Colombo under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage
and Divorce Act.
A
PPLICATION FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF QUAZI UNDER THE MUSLIM MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE ACT (CHAPTER 115) AS AMENDED BY ACTS, NO. 1 OF
1965 AND NO. 32 OF 1969, FOR THE ........................... QUAZI DIVISION
1. Full Name  :
2. Name with Initial :
3. Permanent Residence :
4. Postal Address :

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2014
229
5. Date of Birth :
6. Age :
7. Race :
8. Religion :
9. N. I. C. No. :
10. Telephone No. :
11. Educational Qualifications :
12. Professional Qualifications :
13. Languages which the applicant can read and write :
14. Does the Applicant posses knowledge of Muslim Law ? :
15. Is He Married ? :
16. Is Wife living ?
17. Past and Present Occupations (with date) :
From To Occupation
18. Value of Possessed by Applicant : Rs.
19. Monthly Income : Rs.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2014
230
20. Amount of debts if any : Rs.
21. Were you actively engaged in politics during the last ten years ? :
22. Are you an income tax payer ? :
23. Were there criminal cases against you ? or are there any pending criminal cases ? :
24. Particulars of Court convictions if any :
25. Personal referees (They should be responsible person who known you well) :
(1) (2)
Name : Name :
Address : Address :
Occupation : Occupation :
Period during which he has known you : Period during which he has known you :
I certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
Note :  Attach all copies of the relevant certificates with this.
02–177
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH
Recruitment on Open Basis to the Speech Therapist - Grade III  Segment - 02 (MT 05-2006(A) of the Service
Category of Paramedical Service
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the Sri Lankan citizens who have fulfilled qualifications mentioned below for the recruitment on
Post of Speech Therapist - Grade III to the hospitals ruled by the Ministry of Health.
1. Method of Recruitment.– The applicants who obtained the highest marks on the basis of the results of written examination
conducted by the Secretary to the Ministry of Health or institute approved by the Secretary to the Ministry of Health among the applicants
completed the qualifications mentioned in this notification will be recruited after referring them to an interview by which the physical fitness
and qualifications are inspected (Number of officers due to be recruited will be decided by the Secretary to the Ministry of Health on the
available vacancies and necessities of the Ministry).
2. Required Qualifications :
(i) Educational Qualifications.– Should have a degree in Speech Therapy obtained from a university recognized by the
University Grants Commission or a full time Diploma in Speech Therapy which is not less than 2 years.
(ii) Experience.– Not required.
(iii) Physical fitness.– Should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to discharge duties of
the Post.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2014
231
(iv) Other :
* Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
* Should possess a good character,
* Should have fulfilled all qualifications which are required for the recruitment to the post in all respects as at the
closing date mentioned in this notification.
3. Terms of Employment and Service Conditions :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Officers are required to make contributions to Widows/Widowers and Orphans
Fund.
(ii) This appointment will be on probation for a period of three years.
(iii) Of ficers should obtain the relevant level of language proficiency as per the Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007 and
the incidental circulars.
(iv) F irst Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed within 03 years period of time.
(v) This appointment will be subject to procedural rules of Public Service Commission, Financial Regulation and Provisions
in the Establishments Code.
4. Age limit.– Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 35 years of age as at the closing date.
5. Salary scale.– Rs. 15,260 - 6 x 180 - 4x240 - 11 x 320 - 20x360 - Rs. 28,020.
6. Written Examination will be held on following Subjects :
Paper Syllabus Maximum Cut-off marks
marks (A verage marks
required to be passed)
Intelligence Test It is expected to test the candidate's ability of 100 40%
understanding the meaning, quantification and co-relation
between the time and space through the conclusions and
responses of candidates to the problems given in terms,
numbers and pictures
General Knowledge It will be tested logical explanation as relevant to the post of 100 40%
Speech Therapist
7. Identity of Candidates. – Candidates who have completed applications in all respects will only be called for the written
examination. Following documents of identity will be accepted to prove their identity at the written examination :
1. National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of Registration of Persons,
2. Valid passport.
8. (a) Applications should be sent to reach the following address by registered post on or before 14.03.2014. Applications received
after the closing date will be rejected :
Secretary,
(Director (Admin.) Branch 6),
Ministry of Health,
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
(b) A specimen of the application which should be submitted is given at the end of this notification. Applications should be
prepared using a paper of size A4 and cages from 01 to 07 should appear on the first side of the page, cage 08 to 11 should
appear on the second side. The application should be perfected in the hand writing of the candidate.
(c) The words "Application for the Post of Speech Therapist" should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope
in which application is enclosed.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2014
232
(d) Candidate's signature in the applications should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/a Justice of the Peace/
a Commissioner for Oaths/Attorney-at-Law/a Notary Public/a Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces/an officer
holding a gazetted post in the Police Service or an officer holding a permanent post in the Public Service who gets a annually
consolidated salary more than Rs. 273,060.
(e) Every applicant should pay the examination fee which is Rs. 500 by a money order which could be drawn at General Post
Office Colombo, addressed to the Secretary, Ministry of Health, “Suwasiripaya”, No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa
Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10, on no reason examination fee shall be refunded.
(f) Officers who are already in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service should send their applications through the
respective Head of Department.
(g) Applications which are not in accordance with the specimen form of application will be rejected. No complaint on misplace
or delay of applications will be accepted.
9. Supplying false Information.– Your candidateship will be cancelled if any information provided by you in the application is
reveled as false or inaccurate before the recruitment. If such information is detected after the recruitment, actions will be taken to dismiss by
the service, subject to the further actions with regard to this accordingly.
* Sinhala language statement will be effective if any inconsistency or contradictory is found among the Sinhala, Tamil and
English statements in this gazette notification.
* Decision of the Health Secretary will be the final for the matters arisen on the facts mentioned in this gazette notification.
Dr. Y . D. N
IHAL JAYATILAKA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health.
Ministry of Health,
Colombo 10,
07th January, 2014.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
R
ECRUITMENT (OPEN) TO THE POST OF SPEECH THERAPIST OF THE
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
District of Residence :
Medium of Examination :
(Sinhala - 01/Tamil - 02/English - 03)
Write the relevant number in the cage
01. 1.1 Name of the applicant with initials :
Mr/Mrs./Miss :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
E.g.– SILV A  A. B.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
02. 2.1 Address (personal) :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.2 Address (Personal) :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address (Official) :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.4 Address (Official) :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
(An officer who is employed in Public Service/Provincial
Service/Corporation should mention his/her official address.
Change of address should be informed immediately)
03. 3.1 Date of birth :
Y ear Month Date
3.2 Age as at closing date :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Days :–––––––.
04. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
05. Telephone :–––––––––––.
06. Male/Female :–––––––––––.
07. Qualifications (Qualifications under paragraph 02 of the
notification) :–––––––––––.
Educational Qualifications/Professional Qualifications :––––––.
Experience :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2014
233
08. Particulars relevant to the receipt of the payment of examination fee :
(i) The office to which the examination fee was paid :––––.
(ii) Receipt No. and date :–––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :
Affix the receipt here as not to be detached Rs. 500.
09. Certification of the applicant :
I solemnly declare that the information given herein is true and correct. I agree that if any information ehrein is found to be incorrect
or false prior to the selection, my application will be rejected and if so found so after selection I am liable to be dismissed  from service
without any compensation.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
10. Attestation of the signature of the appilcant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................ is known to me personally and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence
on ......................
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer Attesting.
Name in full :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
11. Certificate of Head of the Department/Institute (only for the applicants in Public Service) :
I certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ....................... has been serving in this Department/Provincial Council/Institute since
.................... and holds a pensionable/temporary post and he/she has earned all the increments during the past .............. years and has not
been subjected to a disciplinary punishment of any kind (except being advised) and all the particulars given above were checked referring to
the records at this office and found correct. Furthermore, I hereby state that he/she can/cannot be released from service if selected and that
he/she placed the signature in my presence.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department/Institute.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
Department :–––––––––––.
(Authenticate with Rubber Stamp)
02–180
MINISTRY  OF  ECONOMIC  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Agrarian Development
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO GRADE III OF AGRARIAN SERVICES
CENTER CLERK IN THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRARIAN
DEVELOPMENT 2013(2014)
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from citizens of Sri Lanka
who possess the following qualifications to fill the vacancies of
Agrarian Services Centre Clerk III in the Department of Agrarian
Development of the Ministry of Economic Development.
01. Application Form. – Application should be prepared on an
A4 size sheet and the cages 01 to 07 should be on the first page and
the cages 08 to 12 should be on the second page and the rest cages
should be on the third page. The relevant information should be
filled in his/her own handwriting. Applications not confirming to
the speciemen application form will be rejected without any notice
(pleased keep a photocopy of application for future reference).
The completed applications should be sent under registered cover
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2014
234
to "Commissioner General of Examination, Organization and Foreign
Examination Branch, Pelawatta, Battaramulla". On or before
07.03.2014. The words "Open competitive Examination for
recruitment to Grade III in Agrarian Services Centre Clerk in the
Department of Agrarian Development 2013 - (2014)". When
preparing the application the name of the examination mentioned at
the top of the application should be indicated in English in addition
to Sinhala or Tamil Languages. Candidates who are already in the
Public Service should send their applications through respective
Heads of Department. Late and incomplete application will be
rejected. Candidates should prepare their applications by the
language medium wish to be answered in the Examinations.
Examination will be held in the following districts.
A
NNEXURE - 1
District District
No.
Colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Kandy 04
Matale 05
Nuwara Eliya 06
Galle 07
Matara 08
Hambantota 09
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Vavuniya 12
Mullativu 13
Kilinochchi 14
Batticaloa 15
Ampara 16
Trincomalee 17
Kurunegala 18
Puttalam 19
Anuradhapura 20
Polonnaruwa 21
Badulla 22
Monaragala 23
Rathnapura 24
Kegalle 25
Examination will be held in the districts throughout the Island
mentioned in the annexure I hereto. In the event of a certain
examination centre is not established in a certain district due to
insufficient candidates, they are referred to a centre as per their
second choice and if the second choice too cannot be granted they
are referred to centre closest to that district. Changes will not be
allowed later with regard to the requested district.
02. Conditions of Service :
2.1 This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected
candidates should contribute to Widow's and Orphan
Pension Fund.
2.2 Selected candidates will be subjected to the provisions
indicated in section 10-12 Chapter II in Establishment
Code and Procedural Rules in respect of appointment in
Public Service.
2.3 Selected candidates should be subjected to the
Establishments and Financial Regulations and orders issued
from time to time by the Government and instructions
issued by the Department.
03. Other Qualifications :
3.1 Candidates must be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
3.2 Candidates should have a good character and physically
fit to work;
3.3 Selected candidates are ilable to serve in any parts of the
Island. The appointees should work at least 5 year period
in the first appointed centre ;
3.4 Applicants should not be less than 18 and more than 30
years of age as at the closing date of the applications the
upper age limit will not be applicable for applicants who
are already in the Public and Provincial Public Service.
04. Educational Qualifications :
(i) Should pass G. C. E. (O/L) in one sitting in six subjects
with credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil/English and
Mathematics and two other subjects ;
and
(ii) Should pass G. C. E. (A/L) at least one subject (other than
General Test)
05. Method of Examination Procedure :
5.1 The candidates should secured at least 40% or more for
each paper to pass the examination. The priority list for
recruitment will be prepared on the aggregate of marks
obtained by Candidates. A result sheet including aggregate
of marks and merit level will be posted to each candidate
by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
5.2 Subjects of the Examination. – The examination will be
consist of two question papers.
(i) Accountancy
Duration - 2 hours - Marks 100
(ii) Comprehension
Duration - 2 hours - Marks 100
(Candidates should be secured at least 40% for each
paper to a pass).
5.3 Syllabus :
(i) Accountancy
This paper will consist of question designed to test
the candidates' knolwedge of theory of book keeping

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2014
235
of accounts, prparation of profits and loss accounts
including balance sheets.
(ii) Comprehension :
This paper will consist of questions designed to test
the candidates’ ability of expression, comprehension
and writing skill.
Candidates are expected to secure at least 40% of
the marks to each subject and aggregate of maximum
will be selected in descending order to fill vacancies.
5.4 The decision of Commissioner General of Examinations
will be final in respect of issuance of results.
06.Salary Scale: (Monthly). – MN-1-2006– A under Public
Administration Circular (06/2006IV) Rs. 13,120 -10x145 - 11 x
170 - 10x240 - 10x320 - Rs. 22,040.
07. Procedure of Promotion.– Promotion to the immediate Grade
will be in relevant to the recruitment to the Post of Agrarian Services
Centers Clerk Service minute.
08.Examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 500. A candidate
should pay this amount to the nearest Agrarian Services Centers
and it returns the receipt of A. S. C. 2(a) should be pasted firmly to
the relevant cage of the application form. A photocopy should be
retained for future reference. The fee will not be refunded in any
circumstance.
09.Implementation official language policy .– Candidates who
are appointed after 01.07.2007 should obtain proficiency in second
official language before the lapse of 05 years from the appointment
as per Public Administration Circular No. 7/2007 dated 28.04.2007.
10. Attestation.– Candidate's identity should be attested by a
Principal of a Government School, Justice of the Peace,
Commissioner for Oaths, Notary Public, a Commissioned Officer
in the armed forces an officer holding a gazetted post in the Police
Service or an Officer holding a permanent staff grade post in the
Public Service.
11. As soon as admission cards are issued to the applicants,
newspaper notice will be published by the Department of
Examinations. Candidates who do not receive admission cards even
after 2 or 3 days from the date of publication of the notice should
inform the Department of the Examination as mentioned in the
notice. It would be effective to make inquiries in that regard from
the Department of Examinations with registered post article receipt,
your letter of request, stating the fax number which the admission
card should be sent if the candidate is resident out of Colombo.
12. Candidates should attest their admission cards prior to date
of examination. The attested admission card should be produced to
the supervisor of examination on the first day of examination at the
appropriate examination centre. Candidates who fail to forward
duly attest admission will not be permitted to sit for the examination.
The issuance of admission card shall not be treated as he/she has
fulfilled the necessary qualifications for the post.
13. Candidates are required to poduce to the supervisor any one
of the following documents in order to prove their identity :
(i) Valid National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons,
(ii) A valid passport.
14. All candidates are bound to abide by the ruels imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examinations and Act in conformity
with the general ruels and regulation set out in the Gazette. A
candidate who violates any of these rules is liable to a punishment
at the discretion of the Commissioner General of Examination.
15. In case of an inconsistency among Sinhala and Tamil and
English text, the Sinhala text shall prevail. The decision of
Commissioner General of Agrarian Development will be final in
respect of any matter not provided for in this notification.
M. A. S. W
EERASINGHE,
 Commissioner General of
Agrarian Development.
Department of Agrarian Development,
P. O. Box 537
Colombo 07.
22nd January, 2014.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
(For office use only)
DEPARTMENT OF AGRARIAN SERVICES
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT
TO GRADE III OF AGRARIAN SERVICES CENTER
CLERK IN THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRARIAN
DEVELOPMENT - 2013 (2014)
y Language Medium  :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
y District and District Number
(According to the annexure 1 of the gazette)
District District No.
1.
2.
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
01. (i) Name with initials :–––––––––.
(in English block capitals) (Eg:- PERERA A.B. C.)
(ii) Name in full :–––––––––.
(in English block capitals)

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2014
236
(iii) Name in full –––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil) :
2. National Identity Card Number :
3. (i) Permanent address  :–––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
(ii) Address to which the admission card should be sent (In
English block capitals) :–––––––––.
4. (i) Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
5. (i) Date of Birth:
Year: Month: Date:
(ii) Age as at the Closing date of the Application :
Years: Months: Days:
6. Civil status :
Married - 1
Single - 2
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
7. Telephone Number :
8. Particulars of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
(i) Year and month of the examination :––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :–––––––––.
(iii)Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
9. Particulars of G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
(i) Year and month of the examination :––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :–––––––––.
(iii)Results :
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
10. Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination fee :
(i) Office to which the payment was made :––––––––.
(ii) Number and the date of the receipt :–––––––––.
(iii)Amount :–––––––––.
Receipt is to be affixed here so as not to be detached
11. Candidates Certificate:
1 solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I am
aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false
I am liable to disqualification before appointment and to dismissal
from service without any compensation if the inaccuracy is detected
after appointent. I also agree to abide by all the conditions imposed
by the Commissioner General of Examinations for the purpose of
holding this examination and issuances of results. I have paid the
examination fees duly and pasted the receipt here to.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
12. Attestation  :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................ is personality
known to me and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on
this ..................... day of ........... ..............
–––––––––––––––, –––––––––––––––,
Specimen Signature of Applicant Signature of Attester.
Attesters full name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
(If the applicant is employed in the Public Service or Provincial
Public Service the certificate given below should be completed by
the Head of the Department)
13. Certificate of the Head of the Department
I hereby certify that the candidate Mr./Mrs./Miss ......................
is service in this office and the particulars furnished in this from are
true and correct. He/she service as a ................. since .....................
and his/her work is satisfactory. If he/she is selected for the
appointment, he/she will be released/not released from the present
post.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department.
(Stamp)
Full Name of the Attesting Officer :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2014
237
ANNEXURE 01
Select the town's number in which examination centers will be established fromt he following table.
Province District District No.
Western Colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Central Kandy 04
Matale 05
Nuwara - Eliya 06
Southern Galle 07
Matara 08
Hambantota 09
Northern Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Vavuniya 12
Mullativu 13
Kilinochchi 14
Eastern Batticaloa 15
Ampara 16
Trincomalee 17
North Western Kurunegala 18
Puttalam 19
North Central Anuradhapura 20
Polonnaruwa 21
Uva Badulla 22
Monaragala 23
Sabaragamuwa Rathnapura 24
Kegalle 25
02–179
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Admission to National Colleges of Education to follow  a Pre-Service Professional Course in Teacher Education - 2014
* 9.4 total marks included for section 12.0 in the application by applicants for Physical Education Sinhala/Tamil/English
* Closing date should be changed as 28th February, 2014.
ANURA DISSANAY AKE
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla.
31st January, 2014.
02-450

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2014
238
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments t o the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements. Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 00 9,340 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 00 950 00
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 00 750 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 00 2,500 00
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 450 00
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 275 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 00 4,360 00
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 00 3,640 00
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 00 1,250 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2014
239
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2014
FRBRUARY 07.02.2014 Friday — 24.01.2014 Friday 12 noon
13.02.2014 Thursday –– 31.01.2014 Friday 12 noon
21.02.2014 Friday –– 07.02.2014 Friday 12 noon
28.02.2014 Friday –– 13.02.2014 Thursday 12 noon
MARCH 07.03.2014 Friday — 21.02.2014 Friday 12 noon
14.03.2014 Friday –– 28.02.2014 Friday 12 noon
21.03.2014 Friday –– 07.03.2014 Friday 12 noon
28.03.2014 Friday –– 14.03.2014 Friday 12 noon
APRIL 04.04.2014 Friday — 21.03.2014 Friday 12 noon
11.04.2014 Friday –– 28.03.2014 Friday 12 noon
17.04.2014 Thursday –– 04.04.2014 Friday 12 noon
25.04.2014 Friday –– 11.04.2014 Friday 12 noon
P. H. L. V. DE SILVA,
Acting Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January , 2014.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.