

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
Page 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... —
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 218
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 2"200- 2020 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 29 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2020'10'29                                                            
No. 2,200 - ThURSdAy ,  OCTObER 29,  2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
ATTENTiON is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  06th November,  2020 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 20th November, 2020.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer 
department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2020.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
217- b 82073-353 (10/2020)


<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'29
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 29.10.2020
218
miscellaneous notices
Land Commissioner General’s No:- 4/l0/25934. 
Provincial Land Commissioner’s No:-UPLC/L/14/
hP/L/108.
noTIfIcATIon  mADe  unDeR  STATe  LAnD 
ReGuLATIon  no.  21(2)
iT is hereby notified that for Agricultural purpose Mr. 
Wijeratnage Janaka Senapathirana Peiris has requested on 
lease a state land containing in extent about ha 0.178 marked 
as Lot No 1045 in F.V .P. 387 and situated in the Village of 
ibbanwewa which belongs to the Grama Niladari division of 
No: 64h, Jayaminipura coming within the area of authority 
of haputale divisional Secretariat in the district of badulla.
 02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested.
On the North by  : Lot No 1042 
On the East by  : Lot No 1042 
On the South by  : Lots numbers 1044 and 1046  
On the West by  : Lot No 1044 
 The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. Therefore, the government has intended to lease out 
the land subject to other government approved conditions and 
the following conditions :
 (a) Terms of the lease : - Thirty years. (30) (30 years from 
1995.06.15 onwards)
  The annual rent of the lease : - 4% of the undeveloped 
value of the land as per valuation of the chief valuer 
for the year 1995. This amount of the lease must be 
quinquennially revised in such a manner that the 
amount as a result of the revision will be not less than 
50% of the amount that just preceded.
  Premium :-  Three times of the 4% developed value  
       of the land
 (b) This lessee must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop the said land, in such a manner 
as to captivate the mind of the divisional Secretary.
 (c) The lessee must not use this land for any purposes 
other than for the purpose of the Agriculture.
 (d) The lease must also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the divisional 
Secretary and by other institutions.
 
 (e) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of the lessees to substantiate within 
the specified time frame the purpose for which the land 
was obtained, action will be taken to terminate the lease.
 (f) No sub-leasing can be done until the expiry of a 
minimum period of 05 years from 1995.06.15. Even 
after this date, sub - leasing or transferring could 
be done only to achieve the purpose of this lease.
  
 (h)  Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse.
if acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date of publishing this notification 
in gazette to the effected that this land must not be 
given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
 M. L. A. 
Sanjeewa,
 Assistant Land Commissioner, 
 For Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s department,
No. 1200/6, “ Mihikatha Medura” ,
Land Secretariat, Rajamalwatta Road, battaramulla.
29th October 2020.
10-1159
Land Commissioner General’s No: -4/10/62198.
Provincial Land Commissioner’s No: - UPLC\L\26\
KG\L\81.
noTIfIcATIon  mADe  unDeR  STATe  LAnD 
ReGuLATIon  no. 21(2)
iT is hereby notified that for Commercial perpose to Natural 
Garden project, A Project for Manufacturing Compost Manure 
and for Re-Cycling Purpose, Mr.Lesthuruge Lalith Fernando 
has requested on lease a state land containing in extent about 
Acres 04 and Purches 09 marked shown as lot A in approximate 
tracing No.Uva/Mo/KTG/LNd/146-b/LTL/COM/335, drawn 
by colonization officer to show as portion of lot 4271 in FTP 
25 situated in the Village of bodhirajapura which belong 
the Grama Niladhari division of No 146 - b detagamuwa 
coming within the area of authority of Kataragama 
divisional Secretariat in the district of Monaragala.  
 

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'29
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 29.10.2020
219
PRiNTEd  AT  ThE  dEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRiNTiNG,  SRi  LANKA.
 02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested.
On the North by  : Reservation for Road and Reservation  
  for irrigation
On the East by : State Land
On the South by : by Road 
On the west by : State Land 
 The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose.Therefore, the government has intended to lease out 
the land subject to other government approved conditions :
 (a) Terms of the lease : - Thirty years. (30) (From 
2020.08.02 the leasing date approved by honourable 
Minister)
 (b) The annual rent of the lease : - 2% of the market value 
of land as per valuation of The chief valuer for the year 
2020 when the annual value of the land is less than 
Rupees five million (Rs. 5,000,000/=) for that year, 
4% of the market value of the land, as per valuation 
of the chief valuer for the year 2020 when the annual 
value of the land is more than Rupees Five Million on 
(Rs.5,000,000) for that year, This lease amount should 
be revised, once in every 05 years and 20% of the annual 
lease amount charged in the final year of the preceding 
05 year period, should be added to the annual lease 
amount.
  Premium :- Not charged.
 (c)  The lessees must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop the said land, in such a  
manner as to captivate the mind of the divisional 
Secretary.
 (d)  The lessees must not use this land for any 
purpose other than for the purpose of Commercial  
activities.
 (e) This lease must also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the divisional 
Secretary and by other institutions.
 (f) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair.
 (g) Once the land is given on lease and in the event 
of failure on the part of the lessees to substantiate  
within the specified time frame the purpose for 
which the land was obtained, action will be taken to 
terminate the lease.
 (h) No sub-leasing can be done until the expiry of a 
minimum period of 05 years from the date approved 
by the hon.Minister
 (i) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
  if acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in 
writing within six weeks of the date whick this notice  
is published in the Gazette to the effect that this land must 
not be given on lease, the land must not be given on lease, 
the land will be leased out as requested.
 
Sameera P. Hetti aracHcHi, 
 Assistant Land Commissioner, 
 For Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s department,
No. 1200/6, “ Mihikatha Medura” ,
Land Secretariat, Rajamalwatta Road, battaramulla.
29th October 2020.
10-1160