

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
COMMUNITY RECOVERY
AND DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 23 OF 2007
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 05th July, 2007]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 6, 2007

<!-- page 2 -->

1Community Recovery and Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2007
Short title.
2—PL 001854—3,300 (03/2007)
Preamble.
[Certified on 05th July 2007]
L.D.—O. INC 11/2005.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  COMMUNITY  RECOVERY  AND
D EVELOPMENT  FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Society called and known as the “Community
Recovery and Development Foundation” has heretofore been
formed for the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects
and transacting all matters connected with the said Society
according to the rules agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Society has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objectives and matters
for which it was formed and has applied to be incorporated
and it will be for the public advantage to grant the said
application:
BE IT THEREFORE enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Community Recovery
and Development Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 23
of 2007.
2. From and after the date of Commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Community Recovery and Development Foundation
(hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall  hereafter
be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby
constituted, shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to
as the “Corporation”) with  perpetual succession, under the
name and style of the “Community Recovery and
Development  Foundation” and by that name may sue and be
sued, with full power and authority  to have and use a common
seal and to  alter the same at its pleasure.
Incorporation of
the Community
Recovery and
Development
Foundation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Community Recovery and Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2007
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to work for the recovery, growth and development
of person by encouraging  “healthy living” and
physical, mental, emotional, psycho-social and
higher-mental well-being ;
(b) to maintain a caring, rehabilitation, recovery and
relief home called and known as “Sahana Sevana”
for  the benefit of psycho-socially victimized,
psychologically traumatized persons, physically or
mentally disabled persons of different age groups ;
(c) to conduct study programmes and research work
on psycho-socially victimized persons, children,
suicide prevention and to forward constructive
suggestions to the relevant authorities and policy
makers, for the benefit of such persons and the
society at large;
(d) to disseminate education and knowledge relating
to different psychological and social disciplines,
mental relief work, rehabilitation, counseling and
guidance;
(e) to set up mental relief and counselling centres,
guidance centres,  for the benefit of needy children,
adolescents, youth, adults, and elderly with a view
to setting goals in the lives of such persons, for the
prevention of suicides, uplifting personality  and
self-reliance ;
(f) to encourage ethnic groups to gain at least speaking
ability in the Sinhala, Tamil and English languages
and raise awareness on understanding of the four
major religions, with a view of enabling peace,
harmony, enhancing human moral values among
the communities of Sri Lanka ;
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Community Recovery and Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2007
(g) to encourage youth and families to undertake
home-based income generating activities in addition
to their main source of income, with a view to
uplifting the economic standards of the people ;
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do, perform
and execute all such acts, matters and things whatsoever as are
necessary of desirable for the promotion and furtherance of the
objects of the Corporation or any one of them, including the
power to open, maintain and close bank accounts, to borrow or
raise moneys with or without security, to  receive or collect
grants and donations, to invest  its funds and to engage, employ
and dismiss officers and servants required for the carrying out
of the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
provisions of this Act and the rules of the Corporation, be
administered by an Executive Committee  elected in
accordance with the rules of the Corporation.
(2) The first Executive Committee of the Corporation shall
be the Executive Committee of Foundation holding office
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
6. (1)  It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters :—
(a) the admission, classification  and  withdrawal or
expulsion of members ;
(b) the election of office bearers, the resignation,
vacation of or  removal from office, of office-bearers,
and their powers, duties and functions ;
(c) the election of the members of the Executive
Committee  and their  powers, conduct and duties ;
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
General powers
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Community Recovery and Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2007
(d) the powers, duties and functions of the various
officers and servants of the Corporation ;
(e) the procedure to be followed in the transaction of
business at the meeting of the  Corporation and the
Executive Committee, the times, places, notices and
agenda  of such meetings ; the quorum therefor and
the conduct of business thereat ;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds and the
maintenance and audit of the accounts ; and
(g) generally, for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to, or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3)  The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
acquire and hold  property, both movable and  immovable,
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being of
the Corporation with full power to sell, mortgage, lease
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
8.  All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation hereby
constituted and all debts due to, subscriptions and
contributions payable to the Foundation on that day shall be
paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
Corporation may
hold property
movable and
immovable.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Community Recovery and Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2007
9.  (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
year begining on the first day of April to 31st March every
year and ending on the thirty first day of March of such year ;
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation ;
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor appointed by the Executive Committee of
the Corporation.
In this section, “qualified auditor” means —
(i) a person who being the member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
issued by the Council of such Institute to practice
as an Accountant ; or
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any other Institute
established by law, possesses a certificate issued by
the Council of such Institute to practice as an
Accountant .
10. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument, except in the presence of the President of the
Corporation or in his absence, a Vice President and of the
Treasurer or Secretary, who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
11. Where upon dissolution of the Corporation, there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
such property shall not be distributed among the members of
the Corporation, but shall be given or transferred to some
Seal of the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Audit  and
Accounts.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Community Recovery and Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2007
other Institution having objects similar to those of the
Corporation and which is or are by its rules prohibited from
distributing any income or property among its or their
members.
12.  Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the republic or of any body politic or corporate
or of any other persons.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
republic and
others.

<!-- page 8 -->

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMATION ,  NO .  163,  KIRULAPONA   MAW ATHA ,  POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05  before
  15th December each year in respect of the year following.