

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 02.11.2016
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1991$35 - 2016 fkdjeïn¾ ui 02 jeks nodod - 2016'11'02
No. 1991/35 - WEDNESDAY,  NOVEMBER  02, 2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
L.D.B 11/2016.
INLAND   REVENUE  ACT, No.  10   OF  2006
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Finance under section 212, of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 read with
section 105B by the said Act.
RAVI K ARUNANAYAKE,
Minister of Finance.
Colombo,
02nd November 2016.
Regulation
1. These regulations may be cited as the “Facilitation of the Implementation of Revenue Administration
Management Information System (RAMIS) No. 01 of 2016.”.
PART   I
SUBMISSION OF RETURNS AND RELATED DOCUMENTS
2. Returns, documents and connected schedules shall be submitted by electronic means by the tax payer in the
manner and format specified by the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue (hereinafter referred to as the “Commissioner
General”) and published in the official Webportal of the Inland Revenue Department (herein after referred to as the
“Webportal”) for the purpose of the following Acts set out in the Schedule hereto : 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 02.11.2016
2A
PART  II
PROCEDURAL ASPECTS
3. Commissioner General shall specify :-
(a) the procedure applicable for electronic registration of different types of taxes and documents to be
submitted in the Webportal;
(b) the documents and schedules which shall be submitted along with the return to be treated as a
valid return and shall not be processed unless the relevant schedules are submitted as specified in the
Webportal ;
(c) the procedure and the requirements of the registration of,
i. a “Tax Agent” or his staff;
ii. an authorized person.
in order to facilitate the submission of documents on behalf of the tax payer, and the registration
of the number of members of the staff  as approved by the Commissioner General shall be as
specified in the Webportal.
PART   III
GENERAL PROVISIONS
4. All e-service transactions shall be made on forms specified by the Commissioner General.
5. The system generated assessments in which the specific reasons for the assessment are printed in the assessment
itself, shall not affect the validity of the assessment. Such an assessment shall not be treated as an assessment issued by
rejecting the return for which the reasons shall be communicated.
6. The acceptance of the return, appeal or objection for the tax in default shall be acknowledged after examining
the specific conditions referred to in the relevant provisions of the relevant Acts. The temporary acknowledgement issued
to acknowledge the receipt of the documents shall not be treated as an acknowledgement for an acceptance of the return,
appeal or objection for tax in default.
7. The system generated letters, notices, lists and any other correspondence which do not contain the signature
of a specific officer who attended to that subject, shall not affect the validity of such documents.
8. In case of failure of the electronic systems or any natural or other disaster resulting in the loss of resources
due to an unforeseen disruption, Commissioner General shall be authorized to decide suitable disaster recovery process
administratively as considered most appropriate.
9. Letters sent to taxpayers by the Department of Inland Revenue and all returns and documents received by the
Department of Inland Revenue shall be stored in Documents Management Systems (DMS).
10. Statements, forms, schedules or any other document purporting to be furnished under the provisions of the
relevant Acts furnished by any authorized person or tax agent on behalf of any taxpayer which shall be deemed for all
purposes to have been furnished by such taxpayer. Any authorized person or tax agent furnishing any such, statements,
form, schedules or any document shall be deemed to be cognizant of all matters contained therein. Return shall be furnished
only by the taxpayer or authorized person who has been vested with approver status.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 02.11.2016
3A
11. In this regulation -
“an authorized person” means any member of the staff authorized by the taxpayer under the procedure for
authorization of the staff as approver or preparer.
“disaster recovery” means the process of planning, developing, testing, maintaining and activation of a
recovery plan in the information technology environment relating to any natural or other disaster
resulting in the loss of resources due to an unforeseen disruption.
“e-Service” includes the provision of an internet website and software which is available 24 hours per day,
365 days per year (subject to time required for maintenance or disaster recovery), where Inland
Revenue Department provides services to taxpayers by unloading data, information and other relevant
details and taxpayers (including tax agents) are facilitated with to electronically submit to Inland
Revenue Department any returns, schedules, and any other information specified by the Commissioner
General as published in the Webportal.
“Tax Agent” means an agent who is appointed by the taxpayer to interact with the Commissioner General on
behalf of such taxpayer to prepare returns and schedules in respect of any type of taxes administered
by the Commissioner General for the purposes of e-Services, being an agent who is an authorized
representative defined in section 217 {other than a person referred to in item (iv) of sub-paragraph
(a), and sub-paragraph (b), (c), (d) and (e) of paragraph (1)}, any individual holding the qualification
referred to in paragraph (2) of that definition which at least experience for a period of three years or
any sectarial firm any other firm which is specilized for computation of Income Tax under PAYE
Scheme which acts for any such tax payer.
Schedule
(a) The Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 ;
(b) The Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 ;
(c) The National Building Tax Act, No. 9 of 2009 ;
(d) The Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006.
11-861
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.