

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
w;s úfYI
wxl 1955$7 - 2016 fmnrjdß ui 23 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2016'02'23
No.1955/7  - TUESDAY   FEBRUARY  23,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
CENTRAL   PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
1A
Announcement under Section 2 of the Local Authorities (Standard By-Laws) Act, No. 06 of 1952, read along
with Section 2 of the Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989
I, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do hereby publish the
draft By-Laws set out below, complied by me, under Section 2 of the Local Authorities (Standard By-Laws) Act, No. 06
of 1952, read along with Section 2 of Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 are hereby
published.
It is hereby announced that the Pradeshiya Sabhas are empowered by Section 126 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 15 of 1987, read along with Section 122 of the said Act to make By Laws and the Pradeshiya Sabhas of Central
Province are empowered to adopt By-Laws, from the date on which this announcement is published in the Gazette, after
the approval of the Central Provincial Council, under Sub section 3 of Section 2 of the Local Authorities (Standard By-
Laws) Act, No. 06 of 1952, read along with Section 2 of the Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12
of 1989.
S
ARATH E KANAYAKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province
and the Minister in-charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Pallekele.
14
th of December, 2015.
BY -LAWS   RELATING   TO   INSPECTION   OF   BUILDING   PLANS   IN   RESPECT   TO  CONSTRUCTION   OF
BUILDINGS   WITHIN   PRADESHIYA   SABHA   AUTHORITY   LIMITS   AND   LEVYING   FEES
01. These By-Laws are framed upon authority vested to this Pradeshiya Sabha under Provisions of Section 126
(viii) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
02. These By-Laws are to be enforced for inspection of plans and levying fees in respect of plans for construction
of buildings and plans of lands in respect of such allotments of lands where buildings are to be constructed

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
2A
within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority areas where provisions of   Housing and Urban Development Ordinance
is applicable.
03. These By-Laws are called and known as the By-Laws for Inspection of Plans for Construction of Buildings
and Plans of Lands relating to such allotment of lands within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority areas.
04. Every permanent construction to be erected underground and on ground surface in any land within authority
area and every allotment of land relating to the construction shall be according to a plan approved by the
Chairman, according to the provisions of Housing and Urban Development Act.
05. For the purpose of obtaining approval for a plan for construction of a building on any land within the authority
area and for the plan of such allotment of land or for such sub division, an application should be made
according to the provisions of Housing and Urban Development Act as amended by the Act, No. 53 of 1953
and such application shall be obtained from the Pradeshiya Sabha , on payment of fees prescribed by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
06. According to the Housing and Urban Development Amendment Act as amended by the Act, No. 53 of 1953,
every application for construction of building shall be for an allotment of land approved by the said Act.
07. Plans in respect of every application to be forwarded according to aforesaid Section No. 06 shall be inspected
and be checked by a Committee, constituted upon a decision of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
08. For the purpose of aforesaid Section 07, it is lawful to levy a fee determined by a resolution passed by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
09. Inspection of building plans of relevant lands or sub divisions such lands and approving of such plans shall be
according to provisions of Housing and Urban Development Act and be according the regulations framed
under the said Act.
10. Every plan application forwarded for approval shall be approved within 30 days of the receipt of such application
to the Pradeshiya Sabha office and where an application is to be rejected, the applicant should be informed in
writing the decision for rejection with the reasons for the same.
11. When the Pradeshiya Sabha determines a payment of an additional remuneration for the constituent member
of the Committee under Section 07 of this By-Laws, it is lawful to make such payment within the approval of
the Commissioner of Local Government of the relevant Province.
12. Where an application forwarded under Section 05 of this By-Laws is an application for approval of allotments
of lands relating to construction and where the entire extent of the land is subject to sub divisions and is one
hectare of land or exceeds such amount, and where such sub division consist of eight allotments of land or
exceeds such amount, an extent of 10 per cent from the remaining portion of land, after leaving any extent of
land to be used for roads relating to the sub division shall be gifted to the Pradeshiya Sabha, for use of the
common amenities of the relevant land.
13. Contravening any of the provisions of these by-laws is an offence and when convicted in a Court of Law
having jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposable, and when such contravention is committed continuously
and when convicted or in the case of continuous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the
Chairman or by an other authorized officer, drawing attention for such contravention, the maximum additional
fine imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall respectively be as defined under sub
Section (2) of Section 122 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15. of 1987.
14. For the purpose of these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires-
“Council” means the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Person” means and includes incorporated or non corporate board of individuals too.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
BY-LAWS   FOR   LEVYING   CHARGES   ON   SERVICES
01. These By Laws are framed upon authority vested to this Pradeshiya Sabha under Provisions of Section 126
(xiv) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
02. These By-Laws are enforced for regulating services provided by the Pradeshiya Sabha and levying charges
on such services.
03. These By-Laws are cited as the By-Laws levying charges on the services of Pradeshiya Sabha.
04. Services mean under mentioned matters related to this By-Laws.
1) Issue of Application Forms include the following matters.
i) Application for admission to the Pre - Schools maintained by the Council.
ii) Application for obtaining Membership to the libraries maintained by the Council.
iii) Application for Abstracts from the Assessment Tax Register.
iv) Application for Registration of Suppliers.
v) Application for obtaining Street Line certificates.
vi) Application for obtaining Non Vesting certificate.
vii) Application for Training Course of ‘E Nanasala Piyasa’.
viii) Application for obtaining services from the Council owned machineries as such gulley bowser,
tractor, motor grader, backhoe loader and JBC.
2) Issue of the Certificates include the following matters.
i) Street Line Certificates
ii) Non Vesting Certificates
iii) Ownership Certificates based on Assessment Tax Register
iv) Certification of Abstracts from the Assessment Tax Registers
v) Certification of Issued Assessment Notices
05. Renting gulley bowser, tractor, backhoe loader, motor grader, JCB machine and water bowser.
06. i) Every person who wants to obtain any service mentioned in the sub Section (2) of Section 4 of this By
Laws, shall forward the respective application fulfilling the prescribed requirements to the Chairman
or the officer authorized by him.
ii) Incomplete or the applications not fulfilled the prescribed requirements shall be rejected and the
applications duly filled with prescribed requirements, when obtaining services mentioned in the sub
Section (2) of Section 4 above, the Chairman or the officer authorized by him, shall provide the proposed
service within three days.
07. i) An instruction relating to the filling of application form shall be included along with every
application issued under sub Section (1) of Section 4 of this By-Laws.
ii) Issue of application form shall be made on production of a receipt obtained after paying respective
charges resolved and determined under Section 5 of this By-aws, on every application form issued.
08. Any body expecting to obtain services prescribed in the sub Section (3) of Section 4 of this By-Laws, shall
forward an application obtained in accordance with sub Section (1) of Section 4 of this By-Laws.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
4A
09. An authorized person by the Chairman shall maintain a register on each category of service relating the
proposed date of service, on receipt of applications under Section 8 of this By-Laws.
10. In addition to the charges on proposed service under sub Section (3) of Section 4 of this By-Laws, it is
lawful to determine a deposit amount payable to the Council, under Section 5 of above.
11. It is lawful to provide services if the applicant agree with the possibility available to provide service, in
accordance to the priority under Section 8 above and after payment of charges determined under Section 5
of this By-Laws, in addition to the deposit amount determined under Section 10.
12. For the purpose of these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires-
“Council” menas the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“The Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
BY   LAWS   RELATING   TO   PARKING   OF   THREE   WHEELER   VEHICLES
01. These By-Laws are framed upon authority vested to this Pradeshiya Sabha under Provisions of Section
126 (vii) (h) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
02. These By-Laws are enforced within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority area (hereinafter mentioned as “authority
area”) for the purpose of Parking, Regulating and Controlling Three Wheeler vehicles and for Levying fees
from three wheeler parking places.
03. These By-Law are cited as the By-Laws for parkingfthree wheeler vehicles within a Pradeshiya Sabha
authority area.
04. According to these By-Laws,
i) Three wheeler parking places within an authority area and the maximum number of three wheelers to
be parked in each parking place shall be resolved by the Pradeshiya Sabha and shall be published in
Government Gazette.
ii) The three wheeler parking places and the number of such vehicles determined under above sub Section
(i) shall be amended by passing a resolution in the Sabha and such amendment shall be notified by
publishing in the Government Gazette.
iii) Determining the three wheeler parking places within an authority area and the maximum number of
three wheelers to be parked therein and amendment of such decisions by the Sabha shall be on the
recommendations of the traffic committee of the Pradeshiya Sabha, constituted of persons shown in
the Schedule I of this By-Laws.
iv) A name board showing the three wheeler parking place as determined under above sub Section (i) shall
be fixed in front of every parking place enabling the others to identify such place and the number
assign to such parking place and the maximum number of three wheelers to be placed in such place
shall be exhibited on the name board.
v) The systematic way of parking three wheelers shall be shown by drawing a four inch white or yellow
line in every three wheeler parking place.
05. No person shall park a three wheeler in a three wheeler parking place in an authority area determined under
Section 4 (i) ofthis By-Laws, except up on a permit issued under this By-Laws.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
06. The fees to be levied for a permit to be issued under Section 4 of this By-Laws shall be the fees determined
by passing a resolution in the Sabha from time to time and notified as required.
07. Any permit issued under Section 4 of this By-Laws (unless it is cancelled under provision of this By-Laws
before period for which it is issued) shall be valid for a specified period as determined by the Sabha.
08. The application for a permit under Section 4 of this By-Laws shall be an application prepared according to
Schedule II, shown in this By-Laws.
09. It is lawful for the Sabha to determine from time to time, the fees to be levied for an application for permit.
10. Every application received for parking a three wheeler in a three wheeler parking place, shall not be registered
as a valid application, unless the requirements mentioned in the application are fulfilled.
11. When issuing a permit for parking a three wheeler in a three wheeler parking place, the nearest parking place
from the residence of the applicant shall be taken into consideration and if such applicant has already obtained
a permit for any other three wheeler claim by him, he shall not have any right for another permit, unless no
other applicant has applied for the same three wheeler parking place.
12. When issuing a permit by the Sabha for parking a three wheeler in a three wheeler parking place, the Chairman
shall take into consideration the recommendations of the traffic committee constituted under Schedule I,
mentioned in this By-Laws.
13. It is the duty of an officer who is authorized by the Chairman to maintain a register for permit issued for
parking three wheelers in the three wheeler parking places, maintained by the Sabha and when a permit so
issued is cancelled, the same shall be noted in that register.
14. Every person who holds a permit under this By-Laws shall,
a) Exhibit in a prominent place of the three wheeler, a copy of the valid permit or a symbol if any,
issued with the permit by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
b) The door of a three wheeler shall be kept closed, preventing passengers to get in and get down from
the right side of a three wheeler.
c) No repairs shall be carried out in a three wheeler parking place, except any repair necessary for
removal of such three wheeler from the place.
d) No three wheeler shall be kept parked for purpose of transport of passengers in any other parking place
or in any public place, except in a parking place where a permit is obtained for parking such three
wheeler.
e) Valid permit of the three wheeler shall be produced for inspection, whenever the Chairman or an
officer authorized by him for the purpose or a police officer requires the same.
f) No liquor is to be taken in a three wheeler parking place and shall not engage in any misconduct or
harass others and cause any others to do so in such places.
15. No person shall park three wheelers in any other place or in a public place within the authority area or be
parked obstructing the traffic or obstructing passengers and with intention of transporting passengers except
in a three wheeler parking place, maintained by the Pradeshiya Sabha.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
6A
16. No three wheeler or any other motor vehicle shall be parked in a manner obstructing the entrance or exit of
three wheeler parking places.
17. When a permit issued under this By-Laws is an annual permit, its validity shall expire on the 31st of December
of the year on which it is issued.
18. The permit of a permit holder of a three wheeler shall be treated as cancelled if such three wheeler having a
permit under this By-Laws fail to keep such three wheeler or any other three wheeler, in a three wheeler
parking place, for a period exceeding one month during the period so permitted.
19. An extension of validity period of time permitted in respect of a permit, issued under this By-Laws can be
obtained by applying to the Chairman on an application prepared according to Schedule II of this By-Laws
before two weeks of the expiry date mentioned in the permit, if requirements in this By-Laws have been
fulfilled.
20. i) Contravening any of the provisions of these by-laws is an offence and when convicted in a Court of
Law having jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposable, and when such contravention is committed
continuously and when convicted or in the case of continuous contravention, after delivering a written
notice by the Chairman or by an other authorized officer, drawing attention   for such contravention,
the maximum additional fine imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall respectively
be as defined under sub Section (2) of Section 122 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15. of 1987.
ii) According to By-Laws 16 (i) a person convicted in a court of law having jurisdiction, his permit shall
be cancelled by the Pradeshiya Sabha in addition to the punishment imposed upon him by courts.
21. For the purpose of these regulations, unless the context Otherwise requires-
“Council” means the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“The Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Authority Area” means the area constituting the Pradeshiya Sabha·authority area.
“Three Wheeler” means a three wheeler vehicle kept parked for hiring.
“Hiring Car Driver” means the owner of three wheeler who drive it or a person who has been employed to
drive it.
“Annual” means calendar year beginning from 1 sl January and ending 31 sl December.
“Police Officer” see the interpretation shown under Section 104 of the Police Ordinance No. 16 of 1865
(being Chapter 53)
“Other Vehicle” see the interpretation shown in the Motor Vehicle Ordinance.
“Registered Owner” see the interpretation shown in the Motor Vehicle Ordinance.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
SCHEDULE  I
The Traffic Committee to be appointed by the Pradeshiya Sabha shall consists of following members
01. Chairman of the Committee shall be the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
02. Revenue Inspector and the Technical Officer.
03. Executive Engineer of the Road Development Authority or a representative nominated by him.
04. Chairman of the Provincial Road Authority or a representative nominated by him.
05. Chairman of the Passenger Transport Authority or a representative nominated by him.
06. Chairman of the Ceylon Transport Board or a representative nominated by him.
07. Police Officers in charge of the Police Stations in the Pradeshiya Sabha authority area or a representative
nominated by him.
08. A representative from each three wheeler association in the area.
S
CHEDULE   II
Application for Parking Three Wheelers
01. Particulars of the Applicant:
i. Name of Applicant:
ii. Permanent Address:
iii. Assessment Number:
iv. Pradeshiya Sabha Authority Area of the Permanent Address:
v . National Identity Card Number:
vi. Telephone Number:
02. Other Particulars
i. Registered Number of Three Wheeler:
ii. Whether driver is the owner and if not the hiring car driver,
a) Valid Driving Licence Number if he is the owner:
b) If hiring car driver Permanent Address:
National Identity Card Number:
Valid driving licence number:
03. Name of Three Wheeler Parking place appliced
04. Period for which permit is applied : Month/03 months/a year
I hereby declare that the abve mentioned information given by me is true and I am aware that my permit is liable to
cancelled without prior notice if the information given above is found to be false and I agree to obscure the provisions of
the By-Laws enforced by the Pradeshiya Sabha in respect of parking three wheelers.
......................................
Signature of Applicant.
Date :

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
8A
I hereby approve the issue of permit .....................................................  to Mr/Mrs  .................................................................to
park the three wheeler bearing the number .....................................in the ..........................................................................parking
place for a period of....................................................................... according recommendation of the Tr affic Committee
dated .............................................
Chairman,
................................Pradeshiya Sabha.
BY- LAWS   RELA TING   TO   PUBLIC   LIBRARIES   OF   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
01. These By-Laws are framed upon authority vested to this Pradeshiya Sabha under provisions of Section 126
(xiv) ofPradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
02. Pradeshiya Sabha has commenced a public library service for providing resources and also services in various
media to fulfill the pleasurable and leisure needs and furnish educational information enabling the personal
development and improvement of reading habits of persons and social groups living in the Pradeshiya Sabha
authority area and this By-Law is enforced in respect of making such provisions.
03. These By-Laws are cited and known as By-Laws relating to public libraries of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
04. According to requirements of the public, the public libraries may include several sections services or all
of them.
I. Lending Section
3. Reference Section
4. Children’s Section
5. Periodicals and Magazine Section
6. Audio, Visual and Information Communication Technology Section
7. Educational Section
8. Book Preservation Section, Rare Books Section
9. Special Collections, Regional Collections Section
10. Library Service Section for Disabled Community
11. Community Information Section
12. Photocopy and any other Information Section ( 4
05. There shall be a librarian for every library of the Pradeshiya Sabha and person so appointed shall be responsible
for the Pradeshiya Sabha for the proper organization and management of the public library.
06. (1) A library advisory committee hereinafter referred to as committee may be appointed for advising and
guidance to the public library service and such committee shall consist of following persons.
i. Chairman of the Council at the time referred to as Chairman hereinafter.
ii. A number of members not less than three including one member from each group representing
all groups of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
iii. Maximum of three members representing each from every religion of the people residing in
the authority area.
iv. Five distinguished persons living in the area of authority selected by the Council.
v . Secretary of the Committee shall be the librarian at the time of being
(2) Number of the committee shall not exceed fifteen.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
(3) Chairman of the committee shall be the Chairman and he shall preside at all meetings. In his absence
of the Chairman a member present shall be elected to preside at the meeting.
7. For the Committee
i. Quorum shall be 1/3 of the number of members appointed by the Council.
ii. Member who holds the Chairmanship at any meeting has one vote and at any meeting when the
number of votes cost for and against be equal on any proposal, there is a casting vote too.
iii. Membership of the committee shall be abolished when a member fail to attend three consecutive
meetings without information. Membership abolished person shall not be appointed to the Advisory
Board again. New member shall appointed by the decision of the Council in place of members whose
membership is so abolished.
08. 1) Following qualifications shall be required for membership in the lending Section.
i) For ordinary membership age shall be over 14 years and for children’s membership age shall
be less than 14 years and more than 03 years.
ii) Permanent resident of the authority area of the Councilor a student or a landlord , or an
employee in such area.
iii) Application for membership may be forwarded with Grama Niladari certificate in proof of
residence, Principal’s certificate for a student, certificate of the head of the institution for an
employee.
2) One of the following shall be treated as sureties
i) Member of Parliament
ii) Provincial Council Member
iii) Member of the Pradeshiya Sabha
iv) Member of Advisory Committee
v) Clergy
vi) Doctor or Lawyer
vii) Justice of Peace
viii) Principal of a school in the authority area.
ix) An officer serving in the Council.
x) Grama Niladari of the authority area.
3) Obtaining membership
For obtaining a membership of the lending section of the library, a membership fee shall be determined by
the Council from time to time on a resolution passed by the Council.
09. Following General Conditions on providing services from every section of the library shall applicable.
(i) Lending section
i. Librarian shall issue two tickets for every person who obtain membership under by-law No.07
herein and such person has the right to obtain one book for each ticket.
ii. Transfer of membership card is totally prohibited.
iii. Member is responsible for every book he borrows.
IV . Where a lending card of a member is lost, he shall immediately inform in writing to the librarian.
If the librarian is satisfied that no book has been issued from lending library on such card, he may
issue a temporary card.

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
10A
v . When obtaining card for the one lost, a fee determined by the Council from time to time shall
be paid for re-issuing such card.
vi. A book borrowed on each membership card shall be allowed to take away for 14 days. Member
may be allowed a further period of 14 days if such book is not required by any other member ;
vii. A book borrowed from the library shall be returned on the due date noted in the book or on a date
before such date. When delayed to return a borrowed book, member is liable to pay a fine
determined by the Council.
viii. When a member fails to return a borrowed book within 30 days action shall be taken
presuming that such book is lost.
ix. Where it is reported that a borrowed book is lost, member shall supply a copy of the book to the
library and if he fails to do so pay the value of the book, and additional fee of 25% shall be
charged from him. In default of payment action shall be taken to charge the amount from the
surety.
x. Member shall not damage, deface, remove pages, draw lines, write notes, or shall not cause any
harm in any manner to a borrowed book. When such a book is returned the librarian shall charge
from the member the value of estimated damage caused to such a book.
xi. Member shall check whether a book is damaged or defaced before such a borrowed book is taken
away from the lending library and librarian shall be informed ifthere be such damages. Any
borrowed book taken without any report shall be presumed as a book released free of damage and
defacing.
xii. Where a librarian is recommending that a book returned by a member is damaged to render it
unfit for further circulation, a member who pays the cost of such book shall be given to him with
the words “removed due to damage” stamped therein. Charges may calculated according to the
paragraph (ix);
xiii. A book borrowed by a member may be returned to the library by a non-member; but he cannot
borrow any book. When a member suffering from an infectious or contagious disease returns a
book to the library such book shall be destroyed and action shall be taken by the librarian to
charge the value ofthe book and an additional fee of 25%.
xiv. When there is a difference of opinion to whom a borrowed book to be issued, the librarian
shall solve such issue.
xv. Any member who desires to borrow any book which has already been borrowed by another member,
he shall enter his name and details in the register kept for the purpose and when such book is
returned the librarian shall reserve it for such member. Where two or members apply for the
book, the librarian shall follow the order of the register and issue the book.
xvi. Lending section of the library may be kept opened on the decision of the Council.
(2) Reference library
i) Any person over  14 years, who can read and write is qualified to use the reference library.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
ii) Any person who require the use of reference library shall take the permission of the librarian by
proving his identity and writing the name and address and placing the signature in the readers’
register.
iii)  Readers are not allowed to take any stationary except some blank papers in to the lending library
and a reader shall take any documents necessary to the lending library allowed by the library.
iv) No person shall take out of the library any book obtained for reference.
v) Any reader coming to the reference library when require to refer any book, report and periodical
of any other section of the library, such requirement may be allowed with the permission of the
librarian.
vi) Reference library shall be kept opened during the hours when the public library is kept opened.
vii) Copies of documents allowed to be issued, may obtained with the permission of the librarian on
payment or fees prescribed by the Council.
(3) Children's Library
i) Membership of the children’s library may be obtained children over 3 years and under 14 years
of age, living in the Council authority area.
ii) The hours of keeping the children’s library opened shall be determined by the Chairman on the
advice of the advisory committee of the library and the working hours shall be clearly written on
a notice board, visible to the public.
iii) No adult person except officers and servants attach to the staff of the Pradeshiya Sabha (except
persons authorized to inspect) shall be allowed to enter inside the children’s library.
(4) Periodicals and Magazine Section.
i) Any persons over 14 years of age who can read and write shall make use of the magazine section.
ii) The librarian shall grant permission to use the section after proving the identity and writing name
and address in the register provided. It is prohibited to take outside any periodicals, books,
magazines or other equipments from this section.
iii) It is prohibited to take inside any periodicals, books, magazines, travelling bags, maps and
equipment to this section.
iv) Section shall be kept opened during the hours when the public library is kept opened.
(5) Newspaper Section
i) Any person who place the signature in the attendance register writing his name and address and
who prove his identity shall be permitted to enter this section.
ii) There shall be daily newspapers and week end news papers in this section. Only the newspapers
published in the previous month shall be preserved.
iii) Newspapers exceeding a period of one month shall be removed from the section and such
newspapers shall be sent to the Council bffice for disposal.

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
12A
iv) The days and time shall kept open the Newspaper section of the library shall be decided by the
Council.
(6) Audio Visual and Information Communication Technological Section.
i) Any member signing the attendance register writing his name and address, and who is paying the
fees decided by the Council from time to time shall be permitted to enter this section by the
librarian.
ii) It is not allowed to take out of the premises audio visual tapes and audio and equipments.
iii) When issuing and returning audio tapes, the reader and the librarian shall be satisfied on the
audio condition.
iv) Fees to be paid by a person who make use of the information communication and
technological section shall determined by the Council from time to time.(iv)
v) It is prohibited to use compact discs and computer software brought from outside in the
computer ofthis section.(v)
vi) Any person shall obtain electronic mail and internet facilities on payment of prescribed fees.
(vi)
vii) It is not permitted to copy or take away in manner of compact discs and computer parts used in
this section. When readers require copies through compact discs permission of librarian shall
be obtained with the payment of a fee determined by the Council (vii)
viii) Any person need copies from compact disc, shall obtain permission from the librarian (viii)
(7) Auditorium
i) The auditorium shall be reserved for education and cultural displays, theatres, film shows, sermons,
seminars, work shops, shows, public meetings (not political) trade union meetings and religious
sermons.
ii) Auditorium shall be reserved for the applicant who comes first on payment of fees and deposits
specified by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
iii) Where an applicant require to reserve the auditorium for any other date other than the reserved
date, reservation may be made on the fees and deposit paid on earlier time. When such other date
is reserved for another applicant fees for non-use of the auditorium shall not be refunded only
the deposit shall be refunded.
iv) The Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha and the authorized officer has the power to reserve the
auditorium and reservation may be suspended on reasonable grounds.
v) Every applicant who reserve the auditorium shall
a. Prevent any damage to equipment, electrical fittings and other fixings in the auditorium
and around the premises.
b. Prevent persons who are untidy, unpleasant and unsuitable entering the auditorium.
c. Prevent use of liquor and smoking inside the auditorium and drunkards entering therein.

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
d. Preventing any person affected with an infectious or contiguous disease or a person
recently been attending such patient entering the auditorium.
e. Prventing display of scene posters and images unsuitable for people conduct.
f. Protecting the belongings etc. of the viewers ad people coming there.
g. Preventing people remaining in the auditorium after 12 in the midnight without the
written permission of the Chairman.
(8) Branch Libraries
i) By the resolution of the Pradeshiya Sabha, branch libraries attached to the main library shall be
maintained.
ii) Membership of the branch library shall be limited to residents within the limits of Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(9) Reading Rooms
i) Reading rooms shall be built outside the main library at divisional level of the Council.
ii) In these reading rooms only newspapers and periodicals shall be available for readers.
iii) Permission may be granted to make use of the reading room by proving the identity and placing
the signature and writing the address in the attendance register by residents of the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(10) Mobile Libraries
i) Mobile library service shall be maintained for members who are unable to come for the main
library or for the branch libraries.
ii) In the places where the mobile library service is held, the date and time of holding such mobile
service shall be displayed prominently to be seen by members.
iii) Separate card shall be issued to members who make use of the mobile library and such card shall
not be valid for the main library or branch library.
(11) Studing Section
i) A studying section may be established attach to main library or branch library of the Council.
ii) Permanent residents of the city shall be given permission to admit in to this studying section
after signing the attendance register giving the name and address.
iii) Books and periodicals and magazines of the library shall not be allowed to take in to the newspaper
section or shall not be allowed to use them therein. Only private letters and documents, books,
periodicals magazines and reading materials of readers shall be made use of.
iv) Studying section too shall be kept opened during opening times of the library.
v) The librarian shall be satisfied that the readers who came there do not engage in any other business
other than their studying. Persons idling or engage in other business shall be sent out.

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
14A
(12) Rare Books and Book Preservation Section.
This section shall be established to preserve books of historical importance, books in out of print,
books on out of sale and other such books relating to any subject.
i) Books over 50 years old legally bound to be given to the custody of archaeological Department
or to the museum, books on out of print or out of sale and books periodicals, newspapers
recommended by the library service and documentation Board shall be pre served in this section.
ii) This Section shall be used by researchers with the written permission of he librarian.
(13) Library Service Section for Disabled People.
i) This section shall be opened for the disable persons who are blind and action shall be taken to
get the books periodical magazines prepared according “Braile” system.
(14) Community Information Service Section.
i) Providing historical, social, economic, trade, educational or any other information required by
the readers living within the authority areas of Pradeshiya Sabha.
ii) This section shall be established to provide information required by readers about by-laws of the
Council reports of the Council, progress reports, budget report and final statement of accounts
or information required in respect of the Council.
iii) Any person who obtained the permission of the Chairman or librarian shall be provided this
information.
iv) Any person needs any information from this section copies can be obtained after the payment
of a prescribed charge.
(15) Photocopy Section.
i) This section may be opened for readers who make use of the library to obtain a copy of a page
or part of a book, magazine, newspapers etc.
ii) Readers who pay the fees prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha shall be issued copies under the
supervision of the librarian
iii) Only photocopies of a part of a book, news papers, periodicals, magazines shall be issued at any
occasion and copying a full book, news paper and a periodical magazine is entirely prohibited.
10. (i) Readers and officers and servants who come to all sections of the library shall observe strict silence
during the period when the library is kept opened.
(ii) No person shall come in to any section of the library after taking liquor and shall not use liquor in the
premises when the library is kept opened and shall not smoke, chew beetle, play dice, engage in
conservation, idle, and behave obstructing the officers and members of the library and sleeping, taking
foods, begging, collecting assistance holding sermons and bringing any animal shall not be allowed.
(iii) Reader coming to the library shall hand over all articles to the reception counter and obtain a token
card. Such articles shall be removed on the same day and after this date no body shall be responsible
for such articles. Where token is misplaced such articles may be returned after proving the identity.

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
Readers shall pay the amount expended on the card by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Officers have the power to
check the articles before handing over as a security step and nobody shall be liable for any loss after
they are issued. Articles of readers who resist such checking shall not be accepted. All readers shall
avoid handing over highly valuable articles and cash to the counter.
(iv) Nobody shall remain in the premises of the library during the time when it is closed. Officers and
employees who have obtained permission of the Chairman or the librarian shall remain therein. No
person shall be permitted to remain there in the night.
(v) Any person afflicted with an infectious or contagious disease or persons treating such patients shall
not enter library premises.
11. Contravening any of the provisions of these By -Laws is an offence and when convicted in a court of law
having jurisdiction as defined under sub-Section 2 of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987.
12. Unless the context otherwise regulars in these by-law
“Council” means the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha. “Secretary” means the secretary of the
Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Librarian” mean a person appointed for the administration libraries of Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Main library” means the public library established in the premises of Pradeshiya Sabha.
 “Committee” means the library advisory committee.
BY-LAWS    RELATING   ITINERARY   TRADING
01. These By-Laws are framed upon authority vested to this Pradeshiya Sabha under provisions of Section 126
(x) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
02. These By-Laws are enforced for the purpose of regulating, supervising and controlling of itinerary trading
within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority areas.
03. These By-Laws are cited as the By-Law relating to itinerary trading in the Pradeshiya Sabha Authority
areas.
04. No person in any street or road or public ground or common ground or public place, shall sell or keep for
sale or take here and there by a bicycle, tricycle, cart or a vehicle for sale any article, goods or food items
whatsoever unless he is in possession of a license issued for such purpose by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
05. Every license issued under By-Law No.4, shall be valid for the period which it is issued, unless it is
cancelled. The valid period of a licence shall not exceed a calendar year.
06. Anybody expecting to obtain a licence mentioned in Section 4 of this By-Laws, shall forward an application
substantially prepared in accordance with the Schedule A. It can be obtainable by paying a prescribed fee
determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
07. Every licence issued under the Schedule B of this By-Laws substantially prepared, considering the period
issued and the fees for the issue of licence shall be determined by the Council from time to time.
08. Every itinerary trader shall wear the identity card issued by the Chairman displaying the part prominently
at every time when he is engaged in business.

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
16A
09. It is the duty of every itinerary trader to produce his license and identity card when he is asked to do so by the
Chairman or by an authorized officer.
10. A licensed itinerary trader according to the nature of trading, has the right to engage in trading between 6.00
a.m. to 10.00 p.m. However, if the Chairman has given him permission to engage in business outside such
specified time period and if mentioned so in license, such licensee has right to be engaged in business during
such period.
11. If the licensee is suffering from any contiguous disease, he shall refrain from engaging in business activities.
12. Every itinerary trader engage in the business of selling foods shall comply with the following requirements.
a) Food taken for sale shall not be kept exposed to flies, dust, germs and bad odour and shall not allow
customers to handle and touch them.
b) Vehicles, bicycles, carts, vessels and pans etc. and all equipment used for handling, contacting food
shall be kept cleaning daily.
c) Papers or any material used for wrapping food items shall be in suitable condition for such purpose.
d) clean equipments, pots and pans shall be used for handling and cooking food.
A person suffering from any contagious disease shall not be engaged in the sale of food.
f) Fire shall not be used causing any danger or hindrance to any individual or individuals
f) Waste matter or waste water shall not be disposed on to any public place and arrangements shall be
made to dispose them under sanitary conditions according to the satisfaction of the Chairman.
13. Meat of any animal or animals mentioned under the Cattle Slaughter Ordinance shall not be sold by any
itinerary trader.
14. The Chairman shall prohibit the sale of cooked food items by any itinerary trader in an area, zone, street or
road declared as prohibited area, when there is an epidemic or infections disease spreading or where such a
disease has already spread or on special reasons.
15. The waste shall not left here and there in the environment, unless the waste generated from the itinerary
trading disposed under the system introduced by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
16. Though a licence is issued under this By-Law, itinerary trading is prohibited inside a public market.
17. Any itinery trader shall not engage in business remaining at a place for a long time.
18. Contravening of anyone or several or all aforesaid by-laws shall be an offence and when convicted in a court
of law having jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposable and when such contravention is committed
continuously, and when convicted, or in the case of continuous contravention, after delivering a written
notice by the Chairman or by an officer authorized by him, drawing attention for such contravention, the
maximum additional fine imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall be as defined in sub
Section (2) of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987.
19. For the purpose of these by-laws unless the context otherwise require -
“Council” means the Pradeshiya Sabha
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sahba.

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
“Pradeshiya Sabha Area” means Pradeshiya Sabha Authority Area.
“Food” means food and beverages used for human consumption.
“Itinerary Trading” means business carried out by bringing material by a person himself or by using an animal
or vehicle.
S
CHEDULE - A
Application for a License of Itinerary Trading
1. Applicant’s Name in Full:
2. Applicant’s Permanent Address:
3. Applicant’s Temporary Address:
4. National Identity Card Number of the Applicant:
5. Applicant’s Telephone Number:
6. Nature of Itinerary Trade:
7. Type of ltinerary Trading:
8. Area Applied for:
9. Authority area of the applicant reside:
10. Required Period:
11. Registered Number of the vehicle utilized in Itinerary Trading:
............................................
Signature of Applicant.
Date
Instructions :
A copy of Identity Card should be enclosed
Revenue Inspector's Recommendation on the Issue of Licence
............................................
Revenue Inspector.
Subject Clerk's Report on the Issue of License
............................................
Subject Clerk.
Date :
Issue of Licence is Recommended/Not Recommended
............................................
Secretary.
Date
Issue of Licence is approved/not approved.
............................................
Chairman
...............................................Pradeshiya Sabha
Date :

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
18A
SCHEDULE - B
License issued for Itinerary Trading
1. Full name and the applicant :
2. NIC Number of he applicant :
3. Nature of Trade :
4. Area given permission :
5. Time duration permission :
........................................
Chairman
.....................................Pradeshiya Sabha
Date :
(This portion shall be wear in a clearly visible manner or exhibited)
Licence Issued for Itinerary Trading within the authority areas of Pradeshiya Sabha
1. Name in Full :
2. Permanent Address :
3. N. I. C. Number :
4. Signature of the Licence Holder :
5. Area Permitted :
6. Permitted Period :
7. Nature of Trade :
........................................
Chairman
.....................................Pradeshiya Sabha
Date

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
BY-LAWS    RELA TING   CREMATORIUMS
01. These By-Laws are framed upon authority vested to this Pradeshiya Sabha under provisions of Section 126
(xiv) ofPradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
02. These By-Laws are enforced for the purpose of cremation of dead bodies, charging fees on them, controlling
and regulating the use of crematoriums of Pradeshiya Sabha.
03. These By-Laws are cited as the by-law of the crematoriums of thee Pradeshiya Sabha.
04. No dead body shall be cremated in a crematorium own by the Council, without a permit issued by the Chairman
or by an officer authorized by him (herein after referred to as Authorized Officer).
05. Any person, (herein after referred to as Applicant) expecting to obtain a permit under by- law No.4 shall
prepare an application, as shown in the “A” Schedule herein and forward, to the Chairman or to an officer
authorized by him, along with following documents.
a) A photocopy of applicant’s national identitycard or copy of valid passport or any other document to
prove the identity of the applicant.
b) If a post- mortems has been held under the criminal procedure code in respect of the death of deceased
person, the certificate issued by the coroner or the magistrate who held the post mortems, under
Section 41 (d) of the Births and Deaths Registration Act, allowing the cremation of the dead body. If
the dead body is in respect of a still birth, the certificate issued under section 43(b) of the Births and
Deaths Registration Act.
06. The Perfected application when handed over to the Chairman or to the officer authorized by him shall be
registered according to the order of receipt of applications.
07 If the dead body can be accept for cremation, the applicant shall be issued with a permit, charging a prescribed
fee for the cremation. The permit should carry the time to hand over the dead body to the crematorium
keeper.
08 In the event of a dead body being not accepted for cremation, the authorized officer by the Chairman shall
take steps to immediately inform the applicant, specifying the reasons for such non - acceptance accordingly.
09. The dead bodies shall be accepted for cremation only during 6.00 a. m. to 6.00 p. m. only.
10. A dead body shall be handed over to the crematorium at the time mentioned in the application or before thirty
minutes in time. The Council shall not be held responsible for any inconvenience or damage caused due to
delay in handing over the corpse.
11. The crematorium keeper shall maintain a register in every crematorium, containing particulars such as the
applicant’s name and address, National Identity Card number, name of the deceased person and his address,
where he was residing before his death, the relationship between the applicant and the deceased person and
the date and time of cremation and permit number and date.
12. The applicant or a written authorized representative of the applicant shall take over the ashes before expiry
of 72 hours from the time of cremation. As such, the time keeping the ashes in the crematorium keeper’s
custody can be extended by a request of the applicant to the authorized officer. The ashes not taken over
within the specified period, the Chairman or the authorized officer shall have the power to evacuate the ashes
at such occasion.

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
20A
13 It is an offence to enter into the premises without the permission of the crematorium keeper or the Chairman.
However, person or persons who accompany a permit holder for cremation of a corpse are presumed to have
received the required permission to enter the crematorium premises.
14 Acting in any way to cause breach of law and order or peace within the crematorium premises or damaging
the property of the Council found within such premises or obstructing the crematorium keeper or his assistant
in carrying out his duties and decorating the crematorium premises are treated as offences.
15. a) The Chairman shall keep the crematorium in a suitable condition to cremate dead bodies with
satisfactory maintenance.
b) If the crematorium is to be kept closed for certain period of time for attending to maintenance work
and repairs, a notice in that respect shall be exhibited in a prominently visible place in the permit
issuing section ofthe office and in the crematorium.
16. The charges of cremation of a dead body shall determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha through a resolution from
time to time when required and the determined charges shall be published in the Gazette.
17. If a cremation is disrupted, during the time of cremating a dead body due to any mechanical defect, the
Chairman have the power to take alternative measures in this regard. However, it shall not have any means the
applicant to take action against the Council and the Chairman on the alternative measures taken.
18. The violation of any of the provisions of these By-Law is an offence and when convicted in a court of law
having jurisdiction the maximum fine that may be imposed for such violation, under sub Section 122(2) of
the Predeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.
19. In these by-laws unelss the context otherwise requires
“Council” means the Pradeshiya Sabha
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha
“Crematorium Keeper” Means a person appointed to be in- charge of a crematorium.
“Dead body” means a dead body of a human being, or part of dead body, or body born of a still birth.
S
CHEDULE  “A”
Application for cremation of a corpse in the crematorium of . ................................
I. Full Name of Applicant:
Address:-
National Identity Card number:-
Grama Niladari Division:-
2. Name of the deceased person:-
Address of the deceased Person:-
Grama Niladhari Division:
National Identity Card Number:-
3. Relationship between the applicant
and the deceased person:-
4. Number of the death certificate and the date:-
5. Registrar’s name and address:-
6. If a post-mortem has been held, the date and time:
7. Name of corner and his designation:
8. Whether permission was granted for cremation of the dead body:-

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
9. Intended date of cremation and time (Preference in order)
i. ............................................................................... .
ii. ...............................................................................
iii.. ...............................................................................
I hereby certify that all information furnished above are true and correct, and all required documents are annexed herewith.
.....................................
Applicant's Signature
For Office use only
1. I do hereby recommend for cremation / issue of permit on requested time............................................... The fe es
as prescribed were paid through the Receipt No. ...........................................Dated................................................
...............................
Signature Subject Clerk
Date :
2. Issue of a permit is approved
...............................
Chairman/Authorized Officer
Date:-
BY -LAWS    RELATING   TO  OBTAINING  TERM    REPORTS   AND  INFORMATION   FOR   LEVYING  TAXES
1. These By Laws are framed upon authority vested to this Pradeshiya Sabha under provisions of Section 126
(iii) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
2. These By-Laws are framed for the purpose of making provisions for obtaining periodical returns necessary
for collection of information required for preparing statements of accounts for levying taxes under Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority areas.
3. These By-Laws are cited as the By-Law relating to obtaining periodical returns and information for levying
taxes in the Pradeshiya Sabha.
4. All business and industrial institutions and organizations shall maintain correct and genuine statements, and
annual reports of accounts according to recognized norms of accounting systems.
5. It is the duty of every person, subject to business tax, to render all information and copies of such information
in respect of all financial transactions and accounts relating to such information when required by the
Secretary.
6. All business information and periodical returns of financial accounts required from time to time by the
Secretary, shall be prepared based on recognized norms of accounting systems.
7. All the financial reports and statements of accounts to be forwarded under By-Law No.5 shall be audited and
be certified by a recognized auditor.

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
22A
8. Any person whoever, who receives a notice forwarded by the Secretary, shall forwarded to the Secretary the
information required by such notice within 14 days of the receipt of the notice.
9. Any person whoever shall satisfy with the information, called for under By-Law 8 supplied were true and
correct. Shall not furnish false information in any circumstances.
10. When it is required to check the information furnished in the periodical returns called for under By-Law, it
is lawful for the Secretary or the person authorized by him to visit such place of business or the premises of
the industry and check the authenticity of such information from books and documents therein.
11. Contravention of anyone or several or all these by-laws shall be an offence, and when convicted in a court of
law having jurisdiction, the fine imposable and when such contravention is committed continuously and
when convicted, or in the case of a continuous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the Chairman
or by an officer authorized by him, drawing attention for such contravention, the additional maximum fine
imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall be as defined under sub-Section (2) of Section
(122) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
12. Unless the context otherwise requires in these By-Laws -
“Secretary” mean the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Council” means the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Person” means and includes incorporated or non co-operated board of individuals too.
BY   LAWS    RELATING   OFFENSIVE  TRADES,   DANGEROUS  TRADES  AND  OFFENSIVE  AND
DANGEROUS  TRADES  OR  BUSINESS
1. These By-Laws are framed upon authority vested to this Pradeshiya Sabha under provisions of Section 126
(ix) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
2. These By-Laws are enforced for the purpose of making provision for regulating, supervision, controlling
offensive trades, dangerous trades and offensive and dangerous trades and for levying fees from such business
carried out within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority area.
3. These By-Laws are cited as By-Laws of Offensive Trades, Dangerous Trades and Offensive and Dangerous
Trades or Business within the authority area of Pradeshiya Sabha.
4. No person within the Pradeshiya Sabha Authrotiy limits shall conduct or maintain an Offensive Trade,
Dangerous Trade or Offensive and Dangerous trade, shown in the Schedules herein, unless such person is in
possession of a license issued by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
5. Every license issued shall be valid until the 31 sl of December of the year for which it is issued unless
such license is cancelled earlier.
6. No person shall have the right to obtain a license for carrying out an Offensive Trade or Dangerous Trade or
offensive and Dangerous Trade, unless such premise and if any building thereon to be used for the purpose,
do not conform to following conditions:-
(a) Premises shall be in good repaired condition and shall have proper ventilation and lighting and every
room when opened, the area of windows fixed shall be less than 1/15 of the floor area of the room.
(b) Height of every part of the walls of every room shall not be less than 2.14 meters and be built with
bricks, rubble stones, kabok bricks or with cement blocks and inner walls shall be cement plastered, at

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
least to a height of 02 meters from the floor, and the remaining portions ofthe walls shall be lime
plastered and colour washed.
(c) End of every roof shall be 02 meters in height from the floor level.
(d) Roof shall be covered with some permanent roof material.
(e) All wood work shall be oil painted or be lime washed.
(f) The entire floor shall be paved with floor tiles or cement.
(g) Premises shall be provided with adequage drainage facilities.
(h) The premises shall have sanitary dust bins and be provided with adequate toilet facilities.
7. Every license holder shall take action to store, all the materials required for maintaining the business, in
such a manner so as to prevent emanation of any bad smell or causing any type of inconvenience.
8. A license holder, when conveying offensive or smelling materials through a public place or on a high road
shall pack such materials in covered and impermeable containers or bags so that no hindrance is caused.
9. Every license holder shall take action to prevent offend able noise steams, fumes or gas emanating while in
the process of production and release to the atmosphere in such manner, without causing any harmful effects
or else cause the exit of such substance by firing or through solid faying equipment.
10. Every license holder shall build adequate drains in the premises where his business if carried out and maintain
them properly by daily washing and cleaning them properly.
11. Every license holder shall build the floor of the premises where the business is to be carried out with some
impermeable material and shall maintain such premises in good repair condition and shall clean daily.
12. Every license holder, during the period when his business is being carried out shall see that the premises are
colour washed annually.
13. Every license holder shall keep all wares and articles including equipment and utensil used in the process of
business activities clean and tidy.
14. Every license holder shall, daily dispose all waste materials getting collected in the premises where the
business is carried out such as sweepings, garbage, any remnants and by products, if they are not utilized
immediately in the business activities by storing them in covered containers and by disposing them as directed
by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
15. Every license holder shall clean and empty water tanks used for washing and soaking leather or any other
materials, preventing emanation of any bad odour or smell as and when required.
16. No license holder shall allow to flow or cause to flow into any river, water way, canal well, lake or any drain,
polluted filthy and smelling water or any other liquid fluid or shall not pollute a river, canal waterway, sluice,
well, lake, tank or any water filled open area by washing any offensive substance or by any other means.
17. It shall be lawful, for the Chairman or for any other officer of the Council who is generally or especially
authorized by the Chairman for such purpose, to enter into any premises where an Offensive Trade or
Dangerous Trade or Offensive and Dangerous trade is carried out and the license holder or the person who is
in charge of such place shall allow and assist them to make such inspections.

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
24A
18. Whenever at any inspection, if it is detected that a licensed place or premises is not being maintained according
to the provisions stipulated in these by laws, the Chairman has the power to inform the license holder in
writing to take necessary action to regularize such premises conforming to provisions of these by laws,
within a specified period of time. The license holder shaH take necessary action accordingly and if he fails
to do so, the Chairman has the power to cancel the license at such situation.
19. It is the duty of the Chairman, whenever any application forwarded by any person to obtain a license to
conduct any trade or business under these regulations, to issue such license within 30 days of the receipt of
such application, if such place conform the provisions of these by laws and if such place does not conform
to provisions of these by laws and if such application is to be rejected the applicant shall be informed of the
reasons for doing so.
20. Every license is holder shall make arrangements to display a list of employees, in Sinhala and Tamil languages,
who are employed in the trade or business for which a license issued, together with their names and addresses,
at a conspicuous place of such premises.
21. Every notice issued under these by-laws shall be delivered to the owner or to the person in charge of the
premises, depending on such circumstance. If such person is not present, such notice shall be affixed at a
conspicuous place of such business premises.
22. Contravening any of the provisions of these by laws is an offence and when convicted in a Court of Law
having jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposdble, and when such contravention is committed continuously
and when convicted or in the case of continuous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the
Chairman or by an other authorized officer, drawing attention for such contravention, the maximum additional
fine imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall respectively be as defined under sub
Section (2) of Section 122 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
23. Unless the context otherwise requires in these By-Laws :
“Pradeshiya Sabha” means the Pradeshiya Sabha
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Pradeshiya Sabha Area” means the Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area.
“An authorized officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha” means officer or officers who are authorized by the Chairman
to enforce these By-Laws.
“License holder” means a person to whom a license is issued under these by laws to carry out any business.
“Person in charge” means and includes watcher or guardian, custodian, guardian of property manager or
other person to whom, the administration or management or organization of any business is vested or behalf
of certain person.
1
ST S CHEDULE
Offensive Trades
1. Manufacturing manure or chemical manner or storing.
2. Leather taming.
3. Sale of leather.
4. Animal husbandry (for meat, milk or eggs)
5. Keeping a photographic studio.
6. Keeping a veterinary hospital.
7. Storing perishable food items and food stuff for sale.
8. Storing dry fish, salted fish and “Jadi” exceeding a quantity of 150 kilograms.
9. Production of coconut shell charcoal, wood charcoal and storing charcoal.
10. Caring tobacco or keeping a store.

<!-- page 25 -->

25AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
11. Manufacture of animal food or keeping a store.
12. Manufacture of poonac or storing over 200 kilograms.
13. Manufacturing soap.
14. Grinding animal bones and keeping them.
15. Storing new or scrap iron.
16. Keeping a store for metal scrap articles.
17. Manufacture of household furniture and storing.
18. Manufacture of rattan articles.
19. Keeping a carpentry workshop
20. Manufacture of fruit drinks and syrup.
21. Manufacture of all kind of sweet meats.
22. Soaking coconut husks (or decomposing)
23. Manufacture of brushes (except tooth brush)
24. Manufacture of tooth brushes.
25. Collection of toddy
26. Manufacture of vinegar or storing.
27. Keeping a mechanically or manually operated timber depot.
28. Storing over 100 liters of painting ink, varnish and distemper paints.
29. Manufacture of soda.
30. Production of leather goods.
31. Canning fruits, fish and other food items.
32. Keeping a grinding mill for grinding chilies, coffee, cereals, and spices or flour milling.
33. Manufacture of candles.
34. Manufacture of camphor.
35. Production of writing ink, printing ink and stencil ink.
36. Manufacture of blue for washing clothes.
37. Production of sealing wax.
38. Manufacture of cosmetics or keeping a store.
39. Production of school chalk.
40. Storing a quantity of over 50 tyres and tubes.
41. Rebuilding tyres.
42. Keeping a depot for vulcanizing tyres and tubes.
43. Storing over 1000 kilograms of cement.
44. Manufacture of cement articles and asbestos cement articles.
45. Manufacture of plastic goods.
46. Weaving textiles by machines.
47. Sale of bags which contained manure lime powder and other substances after cleaning.
48. Producing cement bricks by machines.
49. Storing over 250 kilograms of cereals or grains.
2
ND S CHEDULE
Dangerous Trades
1. Storing quantities of flour, salt or sugar exceeding 750 kilograms for whole sale.
2. Manufacture of ready made garments
3. Keeping a printing press
4. Keeping a poultry farm or a poultry yard having over 50 birds.
5. Keeping a hut or a shed for over 10 goats and pigs.
6. Storing bricks and tiles.
7. Keeping a firewood depot
8. Blasting or digging granite stones by manual or mechanical means.
9. Manufacture of soft drinks or storing over 100 soft drink bottles.

<!-- page 26 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
26A
10. Production of ice cream.
11. Production of coconut oil and storing in quantity exceeding 300 liters.
12. Manufacturing box of matches and storing in quantity exceeding 100 dozens.
13. Production of articles from coir or from any other kind of fibre or storing such items.
14. Storing used garments.
15. Making gold ornaments and repairing them
16. Sawing timber mechanically
17. Keeping a factory using tools and equipments
18. Storing empty bottles and gunnies
19. Keeping work shop for repairing bicycles and motor cycles
20. Storing used papers and news papers
21. Keeping a picture framing centre
22. Production and storing fire works and crackers
23. Storing vegetable oil other than coconut oil, quantity exceeding 50 liters
24. Storing frozen fish and meat
25. Storing timber
3
RD  S CHEDULE
Offensive and Dangerous Trades
1. Curing cinnamon, cloves, cardamom or other kinds of fibre by using chemical substance.
2. Dry cleaning or dyeing.
3. Textile printing or dyeing
4. Keeping an electro plating centre
5. Burning and treating lime stones and dolomite or storiqg ash line.
6. Keeping a battery charging or repairing centre
7. Keeping a motor car repairing garage
8. Maintaining a motor car service station.
9. Maintaining a lathe workshop
10. Keeping a tinkering shed
11. Keeping gas cylinder store
12. Production or dispensing ayurvedic and indigenous drugs
13. Maintaining a glass or sheet glass store
14. Maintaining a plastic or fibre products factory
15. Storing tea dust in quantity exceeding 100 kilograms
16. Keeping welding work shop.
17. Maintaining a lathe machine work shop
18. Maintaining a filling station for petrol, diesel oil or any kind of mineral oil
19. Manufacturing and storing agro-chemicals
20. Repairing or servicing air conditioners, fridges and deep freezers.
21. Maintaining an electrical work shop or electrical equipment production and repairing work shop
22. Keeping a milk chilling centre
BY-LAWS    RELATING   TO  SALE  OF  FISH
1. These By-Laws are framed upon authority vested to this Pradeshiya Sabha under provisions of Section 126
(ix)(a) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
2. These By-Laws are enforced for the purpose of regulating, controlling and charging on the issue of licence
on sale of fish within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority areas.

<!-- page 27 -->

27AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
3. These By-Laws are cited as the By-Law relating to sale of fish within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority areas.
4. No person shall use any place for selling fish within the authority areas, whatsoever unless he is in possession
of a licence issued for such purpose by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha. (4)
5. Every applicant who apply for a licence to maintain a fish stall, shall forward an application obtainable from
the Council which conform to this By Laws and the charges for it shall determined by the Council by time to
time.
6. No person shall be issued a license for a fish stall, selling fish under these By-Laws by the Chairman, unless
the place selling fish conform to following conditions.
a) The construction of the building shall comply with the plan approved by the Chairman.
b) Area set apart for sale of fish be paved with cement and ceramic tiles or be covered with anti corrosive
metallic sheets or using such material.
c) Floor used for exhibiting fish kept for sale and the floor used for storing fish shall be paved with
cement or be finished with ceramic tiles.
d) Drains meant for easy flow of waste water shall be built systematically paved with cement or be finished
with ceramic tiles.
e) Sufficient precautions shall be put in place to prevent the waste water draining through the drains
referred to in paragraph (c) flowing to any public source of water and action sh~l1l be taken to drain
off such waste water to a suction pit.
f) The suction pit put in place to flow waste water shall not be opened at the air
g) Sufficient containers shall be made available to hold the biodegradable waste at the fish market and
action shall be taken to ground such waste materials at least 0.5 meters deep in the ground or dispose
such waste at the end of the day’s sales, in accordance with provisions decided upon by the Council
from time to time.
h) Sufficient water sealed lavatory facilities shall be provided for the use of the persons working in the
premises and suitable sanitary methods and materials to be made use of after the use of the lavatory
shall be supplied.
7. At the end of the daily sales, action shall be taken to wash and clean with disinfectant fluid the floor, the tiled
or cemented parts of the walls, logs used to cut fish, other utensils and the places exhibiting the fish for sale
in any licensed fish stall.
8. Every licensed fish stall shall keep every part of the stall, its surrounding and drains around it, and all utensils
and equipment used for storing and sale of fish, well repaired and in good condition and have the place free
of unwholesome smell and effluvia.
9. The remaining unsold fish at the end of daily sales in a licensed fish stall, shall be sold or exhibited for sale
or kept in the deep freezer, unless stored in a deep freezer and the freezer containing such fish is in continuous
good working condition until the stall opening time of next day.
10. Every license holder shall keep his fish stall free from dogs, cats, rats and any other insects.
11. No articles, goods, clothes or mats used for sleeping shall be kept in the fish stall except the equipments and
articles used for sale of fish.

<!-- page 28 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
28A
12. In a licensed place.
a) No person suffering from contagious diseases or skin diseases or had contacted such a disease in the
recent past or had been recently nursing anybody who is suffering from such a disease or in the incubating
period of such a disease shall enter, engage himself or employ in any form of sale or transporting fish
or an assistant of any person engage in sale in a fish stall.
b) Unless persons dressed in washed and clean clothes, no person shall engage himself or employ anybody
else in any form of sale of fish.
c) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees deployed at the fish stall to a medical test at
least once a year.
13. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety face masks, gloves and other safety materials necessary
and to ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials when they are on duty at the fish stall.
14. It shall be the duty of the licensee to provide soap or soap fluid for the use of all persons employed at the
licensed premises.
15. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or the officer authorized by him to buy a sample of any kind of fish kept
for sale or displayed for sale or stored inside the premises of any fish stall, no licensee shall desist or
prevent such purchase.
16. a) Unless all waste materials produced at the licensed premises are recycled, such waste materials
shall,
i. Biodegradable waste
ii. Paper or paper based materials
iii. Polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics
And it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that they are put in separate containers or tanks
put in place for that purpose.
b) Unless the waste put in containers or tanks having been categorized in the manner set out in paragraph
(a) above is disposed under the programme of waste management, launched by the Pradeshiya Sabha,
the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribed by the Chairman.
17. The appropriate time for inspection of the provisions of the By Laws in this part by the Chairman or the
officer authorized by him, shall mean any occasion fish sales are done at the fish stall.
18. Whenever at an inspection, if it is detected that a licenced place or premises is not being maintained according
to the provisions stipulated in the Section 6 of this By Laws or any By Laws adopted, the Chairman has the
power to inform the licence holder in writing to take necessary action to regularize such premises conforming
to provisions of these By Laws within a specified period of time.
19. Any licence holder in receipt of a notice mentioned in the Section 18 of this By Laws shall act in the manner
prescribed in the notice before the date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable reasons have
been forwarded in writing, the Chairman shall have the power to extend the date specified in the said notice.
However, the period of extension shall not be more than fourteen days.
20. When any licence holder in receipt of a notice mentioned in By Law Section 18, fails to act in accordance
with the manner set out in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the date extended, it shall be
lawful for the Chairman to cancel the licence issued to that premises.

<!-- page 29 -->

29AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
21. Contravening of anyone or several or all aforesaid by laws shall be an offence and when convicted in a court
of law having jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposable and when such contravention is committed
continuously, and when convicted, or in the case of continuous contravention, after delivering a written
notice by the Chairman or by an officer authorized by him, drawing attention for such contravention, the
maximum additional fine imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall be as defined in sub
Section (2) of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987.
22. For the purpose of these by-laws unless the context otherwise require-
”Council” means the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Pradeshiya Sabha Area” means Pradeshiya Sabha authority area.
BY-LAWS    RELATING   TO FAIRS
1. These By Laws are framed upon authority vested to this Pradeshiya Sabha under provisions of Section 126
(xii) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
2. These By-Laws are enforced for the purpose of regulating fairs to be held within the Pradeshiya Sabha
authority areas.
3. These By Laws are cited as the By Laws for fairs of Pradeshiya Sabha.
4. Boundaries and limits of each fair (hereinafter called as fair area) conducted by the Pradeshiya Sabha shall
be determined by the Sabha from time to time through resolutions and declared to the public.
5. Conducting days and time of fairs in a week shall be determined and declared by the Sabha from time to time.
6. Unless the fairs controlled and maintained by an operational agreement, resolved by the Sabha, no persons
shall engage in any trade activity in any specifically mentioned place for holding a fair without a valid permit
to be issued by the Chairman or by the officer authorized by him. (6)
7. A fees for a licence, mentioned in the Section 6 above, shall be determined by the Sabha from time to time
through resolutions.
8. Nobody shall sell or exhibit for sale any commodities or goods other than the types of goods or materials
for which a particular trading limits has been allocated. Nobody shall do itinerary trading inside of the fair.
9. No acts shall do inside of a fair such as,
a) The space reserved for walking and purchasing of goods using to sell, exhibit and keeping goods
obstructing consumers.
b) Begging.
c) Conduct himself any undisciplined manner or making hindrances to others.
d) Cooking activities.
e) Remain inside the premises after the closure of the fair, mentioned in the licence.
f) Collecting over charges by the lessee or by his agent, other than charges permitted to collect by the
Pradeshiya Sabha.
g) Damage or harm any public properties and Pradeshiya Sabha properties and do unfair acts or letting to
do such acts.
h) Washing clothes, vehicles and bathing inside the fair using its water taps.
i) A person suffering from contagious, infectious or skin disease selling, exhibiting or transporting goods
inside the fair or a person nursing such patients selling, exhibiting or transporting goods to the fair.

<!-- page 30 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
30A
j) Selling unclean goods, selling goods brought from unclean and disease spreading areas selling goods
with unfair manners.
k) Not using correct weighing instruments.
I) Cruel treatment to birds and creatures and killing animals.
m) Transporting and parking vehicles inside the fair.
n) Poisonous goods, fuel and explosives not permitted to sell to the public, exhibiting and selling rotten
flesh and fish.
o) Disposal of biodegradable and meat waste and garbage and other waste materials in the fair.
p) Conducting the fair after 10.00 p.m.
10. All waste matter thrown away by persons engage in traliing within the premises of the fair, shall , be dumped
on to any specific place for easy collection and no person shall heap the waste here  and there, making the
fair unclean.
11. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or for any authorized officer to enter the fair premises at any time to
inspect the activities, whether action is taken according to provisions of the By-Laws in this part and anybody
shall not be prevented or obstructed such process.
12. No person shall enter in to the fair premises for trading purpose, unless 12 hours period prior to the
commencement of the fair.
13. No damages shall be made to the properties and fittings in the premises of the fair.
14. Contravention of anyone or several or all these by-laws shall be an offence, and when convicted in a court of
law having jurisdiction, the fine imposable and when such contravention is committed continuously and
when convicted, or in the case of a continuous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the Chairman
or by an officer authorized by him, drawing attention for such contravention, the additional maximum fine
imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall be as defined under sub-section (2) of section
(153) of the Urban Council ordinance or section 122(2) ofthe Pradeshiya Sabha Act, no. 15 of 1987.
15. Unless the context otherwise requires in these by-laws -
“Council” means the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Chairman” mean the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
BY -LAWS    FOR  REGULATING  AND   CONTROLLING  DECORATIONS
1. These By Laws are framed upon authority vested to this Pradeshiya Sabha under Provisions of Section 126
(vii) (e) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.
2. These By Laws are enforced for the purpose of regulating and controlling decorations within the Pradeshiya
Sabha authority area and for levying fees.
3. These By Laws are cited as the By Laws for regulating and controlling decorations within Pradeshiya Sabha
authority area.
4. No person shall do any decoration in streets and in public places of Pradeshiya Sabha authority area, without
a permit issued by the Chairman or by an officer authorized by him under this Statute.
5. When obtaining a permit for any decoration whatsoever, an application prepared according to Schedule I of
this By Laws and be forwarded to the Chairman or to an officer authorized by him, at least 48 hours before
making such decoration.

<!-- page 31 -->

31AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
6. The Chairman will issue a permit according to provisions of these By Laws for making decorations on the
receipt of application.
7. Polythene shall not be used any or whatever decaration or on any occasion even on a permit.
8. The fees to be charged for every permit to be issued under this Statute, shall be the fees resolved by the
Pradeshiya Sbha from time to time.
a) Every person who apply for any decorative work under this Statute, shall deposit a security deposit, as
determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
b) When any person holding a permit fail 0 remove the decorations within 24 hours of the date given in
the permit for removing such decorations, the Pradeshiya Sabha will take action to remove the
decorations and it is lawful to recover such amount expended by the Pradeshiya  Sabha from the security
deposit, and refund any balance amount if any to the depositor.
9. Any decoration made under these By Laws shall not cover or obstruct roads, signal boards, area maps and
name boards, telephone and electricity posts and bridges.
10. Contravening any of the provisions of these by laws is an offence and when convicted in a Court of Law
having jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposable, and when such contravention is committed continuously
and when convicted or in the case of continuous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the
Chairman or by an other authorized officer, drawing attention for such contravention, the maximum additional
fine imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall respectively be as defined under sub
Section (2) of Section 122 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15. of 1987.
11. Unless the context otherwise requires in these by-laws -
“Council” means the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Chairman” mean the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Decoration” means a temporary preparation or erection for any occasion or for any purpose made of
artificial or natural materials in order to depict such occasion or purpose.
S
CHEDULE - 1
1. Name and Address of Applicant :
2. Telephone Number:
3. National Identity Card Number:
(Photo copy to be annexed)
4. Name of Street or public place to be decorated:
5. Nature of Decoration :
6. Period of exhibiting the decoration:
7. Purpose of the decoration:
8. Date of removing the decoration :
9. Method of disposing refuse materials :
I hereby agree to make the decorations according to direction of the Pradeshiya Sabha and I am well aware
that violation of this By Laws is a punishable offence.
Signature of Applicant
Date

<!-- page 32 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
32A
For office use
Recommendation of the Technical Officer :
Signature
Date :
Recommendation of the Secretary
Signature
Date
I approve / disapprove the application / the issue of permit levying a deposit of Rs ...........................recommended
by the Secretary.
Chairman
Date
BY-LAWS    FOR  REGULATING  AND  CONTROLLING  THE USE  OF  PUBLIC  LATRINES
1. These By-Laws are framed upon authority vested to this Pradeshiya Sabha under provisions of Section 126
(ix) (d) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
2. These By-Laws are enforced for the purpose of regulating, controlling and managing the use of public latrines
in the authority areas of Pradeshiya Sabha.
3. These By-Laws are cited as the By-Law for Public Latrines.
4. In any public latrine, no person shall defecate on to any other place, except on to the section provided for the
purpose and urinate in the latrine or at the place provided for such purpose and shall not urinate at any other
place.
5. No person shall use the water supplied to the latrine, to any other purpose except for the needs of such
latrine.
6. No person shall drop or place in the pans, drains, gullies or other opening of any public latrine, any bricks,
earth, ashes, rubbles or any other substance or matter that will cause any type of obstruction therein.
7. No person shall damage, remove, block up or in anyway alter the fixing, position or arrangement of any pan,
pipe, valve, tank or any other fitting in any public latrine or shall willfully destroy, deface, damage or harm
any part, floor roof or the structure or part thereof such latrine except in any repairs.
8. Only the females shall enter into any public latrine set apart for females and only the males for public
latrines set apart for males and when a latrine is being repaired or cleaned, the persons entrusted with such
work or duty shall have the doors of the latrine closed, exhibiting a notice at the entrance, in Sinhala, Tamil
and English of such closure.

<!-- page 33 -->

33AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
9. Any notice or an order given to any person by an attendant, watcher, servant or a custodian of any pubic
latrine shall be lawful and such an order or notice shall not be disregarded or be opposed.
10. A public latrine shall be used only to defecate and to urinate and shall not smoke, or take drugs etc therein,
and shall not idle around the place.
11. Whenever the maintenance of a public latrine is entrusted to private sector, the person so entrusted shall
wash and clean the latrine daily and if a fee levied for maintenance, the amount of such fees shall be exhibited
in a notice affixed at the entrance.
12. The latrine shall always be maintained in clean and under good sanitary conditions, using germicides daily.
13. Whenever a public latrine is entrusted to an individual or to any institution for maintenance, the fees to be
levied, from persons using it, from time to time shall be resolved by the Council and only such fees shall be
payable by the persons using such latrine.
14. Contravening any of the provisions of these by laws is an offence and when convicted in a Court of Law
having jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposable, and when such contravention is committed continuously
and when convicted or in the case of continuous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the
Chairman or by an other authorized officer, drawing attention for such contravention, the maximum additional
fine imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall respectively be as defined under sub
Section (2) of Section 122 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15. of 1987. (14)
15. For the purpose of these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires-
“Council” means the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“The Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
BY-LAW    RELATING   TO   ADVERTISEMENT
1. Pradeshiya Sabha has been assigned with power under Section 126 (xxx) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987 to draft this by-law.
2. This by-law will be enforced for the purpose of regularization, control of advertisements displayed
conspicuously to a road located within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority and for levying charges on
advertisements advertised thus.
3. This by-law shall be named as the By-law relating to Advertisements within the Pradeshiya Sabha Area of
Authority.
4. No person shall display or cause to display any advertisement to be conspicuous to certain road or thoroughfare
unless he possesses a license issued by the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha assigning power to do so.
5. For the purposes of this by-law, an advertisement means a board, banner, cutout or advertisements created by
drawing on Aluminium sheets, iron, polythene, fabric or paper, else an advertisement-board set up using
galvanized iron or an advertisement created on a house, boutique, hotel, wall, boundary wall to promote
certain place of trade, trade material or business by using letters or pictures or special advertisements displayed
on festive occasions like trade exhibitions and carnivals, displayed to be conspicuous to main road, by-road,
Provincial Council or Pradeshiya Sabha road or Private road.

<!-- page 34 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
34A
6. Under this by-law;
(1) Every application requesting a license for the display of whatever advertisement shall comply to the
format stated in the First Schedule herein and shall be forwarded to the Chairman of the Council at
least prior to three days of such date on which the said advertisement is meant to be displayed.
(2) The fee charged for an application issued by thePradeshiya Sabha may be decided by the Council
from time to time through a resolution passed at the Council.
7. Every application forwarded under Section 6 above shall satisfy the following requirements.
(1) Ground plan drawn in scale not less than 1: 1000 relative to the location of the structure where the
advertisement is to be set up.
(2) The diagram of that structure drawn in scale not less than 1: 1000
(3) If any amendments so as to comply with these by-laws exist in that plan, diagram or specification,
including such amendments.
(4) A copy of the same advertisement drawn in small scale and applied with all the colours of the
advertisement to be displayed.
(5) The plan indicating the location of the advertisement in relation to the adjacent roads and main land
marks.
8. Unless conforming to plans, diagrams and specifications approved by way of a written document by the
Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha, no person shall construct or cause to construct within the Pradesiya
Sabha area of authority any board, billboard, advertising boards, or any other structure to be utilized for the
task of display.
9. Where an application forwarded under Section No. 06 of this by-law is approved by the Chairman of Pradeshiya
Sabha, the applicant shall not be issued with a license until prescribed charges decided upon as per schedule
2 below had been paid.
10. Where a license has been issued to a person for displaying an advertisement board, the Pradeshiya  Sabha
shall order the said person to include license reference No. and license holder’s name in every advertisement
displayed by him.
11. (l) The provisions stated in these by-laws shall not be relevant to any of the advertisements  stated below
unless such advertisement is a electrical advertisement or sky name board;
a) A notice relating to a concert that deploys the amount of net revenue for charity affairs;
b) An advertisement relating to a concert and displayed on the spot where the said concert is held;
c) An advertisement relating to a religious, political or public meeting ;
d) An advertisement stating “to be let on rent” ;
e) An advertisement stating “for sale” ;

<!-- page 35 -->

35AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
f) House name boards ;
g) Name boards utilized for professional activities and not exceeding 0.93 square meters in area ;
h) A vehicle used for some trade purpose displaying any advertisement indicating the nature of that
trade affair or business, owner's name, address, telephone No. and email address ;
i) A notice set up on sponsership basis to display a road public place roundabout or traffic sign ;
j) A notice set up at a particular business place displaying only the name of that business place,
address, telephone number, electronic mail address and the name of the person engaged in that
business.
However, in addition to the name of the person engaged in business at particular business place
including the name, address, telephone number and electronic mail address of such business
place, where matters require publicizing a sponsor’s name or name of any other good or material
or service, the provisions relevant to a license under this by-law shall be applicable for the relevant
additional part of the said advertisement.
(2) No person shall;
a) display an advertisement on top of a street, road or footpath, or, across or protruding to such
street, road or footpath;
b) display an advertisement on a board exceeding 15 meters height from the floor level;
c) fix or let hang an advertisement on the surface of a building facing a street or road or on a name
board of a business place or, in a manner exceeding the length of the surface of the said building;
d) construct or set up an advertisement in the nature of sky advertisement without prior approval of
the Pradeshiya Sabha.
12. No person shall display an advertisement on a public building, place of religious worship, public park or on
a bridge or overhead passenger bridge, telephone or electricity post, side wall, dam, anicut, culvert, rock,
bank or tree.
13. No advertisement shall be displayed in an area specifically indicated in a resolution adopted by the Council
and duly published in the gazette paper unless it is constructed or set up in accordance to the manner approved
by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha .
14. No person shall, in a street or road located within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority use a radio,
gramophone, musical instrument, a bell or other equipment for the purpose of displaying or introducing any
advertisement without the permission of Chairman the of Pradeshiya Sabha .
15. Within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority ;
(a) Where a particular advertisement found to be displaying repulsive or revolting image and causing
damage to public morality, the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha by way of a written announcement
may order the person advertising the said advertisement to stop displaying the advertisement within a
time period specifically notified by that announcement.
(b) Any person who has been served a notice under sub-section (a) of this by-law shall take action as per
the said notice within the time specified therein.

<!-- page 36 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
36A
16. The owner or lease holder of a board used for displaying advertisements;
a) Shall maintain the said boards in proper repaired state and ensuring safety of persons.
b) Shall display his name and address in legible letters on the front surface of the board in a clearly visible
place.
17. No person shall distort certain logo mark, letter, word or number included by Pradeshiya Sabha in an
advertisement to indicate that the prescribed licence fee for the display of that advertisement has been paid.
18. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such
offence by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is
continued even further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized
officer serves a written notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such
continued contravention, the maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty
and maximum of the additional penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act No. 15 of 1987.
19. Subsequent to being convicted for an offence under this by-law, it is lawful for the Pradeshiya Sabha to
remove without any prior notice the advertisements displayed within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority.
20. Where certain person or institution has become an offender due to the reason of continuous display of
advertisements without obtaining a license or due to contravention of conditions stipulated under this by-
law, it is lawful for the Pradeshiya Sabha to blacklist such person or institution regarding activities pertaining
to advertising within that Pradeshiya Sabha area of authonty.
21. Subsequent to receiving permission to display advertisements, eventhough the permit’s period of validity is
valid for a future period, if an advertisement board or a cutout or a banner fixed in any manner or drawn on a
wall or parapet wall has become torn, slanted, collapsed or discoloured, broken down, changed and thereby
affects the attractiveness of the city in whichever manner, within 7 days of handing over a written notice to
the relevant owner with regard to such advertisements, measures shall be taken by him to restore it and if
such restoration does not take place, it is lawful for the Council to remove such advertisement. Where the
Council will have to remove the advertisement by deploying employees of the Council after 14 days of such
notice, the Council will not hold whatsoever responsibility regarding the said advertisement.
22. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this by-law
“Council” means the Pradeshiya Sabha
“Chairman” means the Chairman ofPradeshiya Sabha
F
IRST  SCHEDULE
Application for Display of Advertisement
1. Full Name of the Applicant :.................................................................................................................................
2. Permanent Address :..............................................................................................................................................
3. Applicant's telephone Number ...........................Email Address:....................................................... ..................
4. Business, festival, exhibition, carnival, meeting or trading material expected to be promoted throughthe
advertisement :.......................................................................................................................................................
5. Location/Locations where the advertisement is intended to be displayed :..................................................... .
................................................................................................................................................................................
6. Has relevant format been attached ? :....................................................................................................................

<!-- page 37 -->

37AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
7. Type of advertisement expected to be displayed (banner, boards, cutouts, wall, parapet wall or permanent)
:...............................................................................................................................................................................
8. Even after receiving approval to display your advertisement, in the event of such advertisement being
discoloured, slanted, tom, collapses on to ground, would you agree to restore it ?
.................................................................................................................................................................................
I hereby agree to display the advertisement in accordance to the regulations accepted by the Pradeshiya
Sabha and I am well aware that contravention of the relevant by-law or any section therein to be a punishable
offence.
.................................
(Signature of Applicant)
Date :
The following documents have been attached.
I. Where the advertisement is displayed in a property not belonging to the applicant, the letter of consent
obtained from the owner of the land where the said advertisement will be set up.
II. Documents confirming requirements under Section 7 of the by-law
III. If the advertisement will be drawn on a house, boutique, hotel, wall, parapet wall or any such place, the letter
of consent obtained from the owner of the said parapet wall, wall, boutique or hotel.
S
ECOND  S CHEDULE
Accession Nature of the Board Extent in Charges in Rupees
No. Square Meter
Less than Between 03 An year
03 months to 06
months
01. Advertisements displayed in a Less than 01 250/- 350/- 500/-
certain wall or parapet wall
More than 01
02. Textile, Digital banners Less than 03 250/- 350/- 500/-
More than 03
03. Advertisements displayed Less than 01 500/- 750/- 1000/-
on metal sheets or wood
More than 01
04. Advertisement displayed Less than 01 500/- 750/- 1000/-
using electricity
More than 01
Rs. 200/- per every Square Meter exceeding 1
M2 or part  of it
Rs. 200/- per every Square Meter exceeding 3
M
2 or part  of it
Rs. 300/- per every Square Meter exceeding 1
M
2 or part  of it
Rs. 300/- per every Square Meter exceeding 1
M
2 or part  of it

<!-- page 38 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
38A
05. Advertisements displayed Less than 01 250/- 350/- 500/-
on polythene or cardboard
More than 01
06. Advertisements displayed Less than 01 250/- 350/- 500/-
on plastic or fiber boards
More than 01
07. Advertisements displayed using Less than 0I 750/- 850/- 1000/-
electrical equipment
More than 01
BY -AWS    RELATING   REGULARIZATION   AND  CONTROL  OF  LIVESTOCK  FARMS
1. Pradeshiya Sabha has been assigned with power under Section 126 (IX) (t) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15
of 1987 to draft this by-law.
2. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize and monitor livestock farms maintained within the Pradeshiya
Sabha area of authority for the purpose of obtaining meat, milk, eggs or breeding of animals, and to control
public distress caused by such livestock farms.
3. This by-law shall be cited as the By-law relating to Livestock Farms within the Pradeshiya Sabha Area of
Authority.
4. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the particular function has been obtained, no person
shall maintain a livestock farm for the purpose of obtaining meat, milk, eggs or breeding of animals.
5. The application to obtain a licence under this by-law shall accord to Schedule 1 of this by-law and it shall be
obtained from the Council having paid the charges decided by the Council from time to time through a
resolution passed therein.
6. Every licence issued under the provisions of this by-law shall be valid up to 31st December of the year
for which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier.
7. Charges to be levied on a licence shall be valid after it was decided by way of a resolution passed in
Pradeshiya Sabha and published in the Gazette.
8. In every livestock farm issued with a licence, a board clearly painted with the phrase “Licenced Livestock
Farm” and licence holder’s name in the languages of Sinhala, Tamil and English shall be put on display in the
livestock farm to be conspicuous to the outside.
S
ECOND  SCHEDULE   ( Contd.)
Accession Nature of the Board Extent in Charges in Rupees
No. Square Meter
Less than Between 03 An year
03 months to 06
months
Rs. 200/- per every Square Meter exceeding
1 M
2 or part of it
Rs. 200/- per every Square Meter exceeding
1 M
2 or part of it
Rs. 500/- per every Square Meter exceeding
1 M2 or part of it

<!-- page 39 -->

39AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
9. Unless the following conditions have been fulfilled in respect to every livestock farm, no licence shall be
issued in that regard.
(a) Every licence holder shall keep the farm and all its buildings in proper repaired, clean and sanitary
condition while taking measures to wash and sweep it daily.
(b) To ensure the clean and sanitary condition of the place, all the animal faeces, urine and other waste
shall cause to be collected within short time periods per day and the animal faeces and urine collected
thus shall cause to be disposed to a receptacle covered by a permanent material or to a sufficiently
spaced pit, walled in with cement and plastered with cement.
(c) Having removed at least once a day of all the waste, urine or washed up water, they shall be disposed
without causing distress.
(d) Every livestock farm licence holder shall subject every animal of the farm under scrutiny of the
Government Veterinary Medical Officer at least once in three months and keep report of such
examination in his possession while taking measures to immediately implement recommendations
given by the Veterinary Medical Officer, ifthere is any.
(e) The farm shall have been constructed in such manner allowing animals to be kept in separate confinements
in case of certain animal/ animals within the farm is infected with a disease or communicable disease
extending to the state of an epidemic.
(f) Whenever animals of the farm are infected with a disease, communicable disease or epidemic, it
shall be informed in writing to the Veterinary Medical Officer of that area.
10. The licence holder or other person shall not kill or torture any animal in the place where animals are held
within the livestock farm.
11. The meat of an animal which died within the livestock farm due to an illness, communicable disease or
epidemic shall be destroyed so as to prevent it from being subjected to human consumption.
12. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Officer Authorized by him writing to enter a livestock farm at
justifiable hours for the purpose of inspecting it.
13. The license holder or the person in charge of the livestock farm shall allow the Chairman or the officer
authorized by him in writing to enter the premises and inspect it and he shall provide all the assistance
required by the Chairman or any such officer to carry on the inspection.
14. When a licence holder acts in a manner contravening the sections of this by-law and subsequent to informing
about such contravention, it shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel the licence when such contravention
is continued further.
15. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such
offence by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is
continued even further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized
officer serves a written notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such
continued contravention, the maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty
and maximum of the additional penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15 of 1987.

<!-- page 40 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
40A
16. Unless other interpretation is required regarding the text of this by-law
“Chairman” means the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha,
“Sabha” means the Pradeshiya Sabha,
“Authorized Officer” means the Officer authorized by the Chairman,
“Animal” means any kind of animal reared for the purpose of obtaining meat, milk, eggs or for breeding of
such kind,
“Livestock Farm” means a place where 05 cows or more than that are reared in terms of cows, 05 goats or
more than that are reared in terms of goats, 50 poultry or more than that are reared in terms of poultry, or,
05 pigs or more than that are reared in terms of pigs.
F
IRST   SCHEDULE
Application to obtain a licence for a livestock farm
01. Name of the Applicant : ........................................................................................................................................
02. Applicant’s Address  : ...........................................................................................................................................
03. Telephone number :.......................................................... Email address: ................................. .......................
04. Address of the place where the farm is conducted : ......................................................................... .................
05. District :.................................................................................................................................................................
06. Divisional Secretariat :.................................................................................................... ......................................
07. Village/ Grama Niladhari Division where the farm is located : .............................................................. ..........
08. Kind and number of animals reared :...................................................................................................................
Accession No. Animal Category Number Objective of Extent allocated
animal rearing for animals
(meat/other ... )
1. Cows
2. Goats
3. Pigs
4. Poultry
09. The following documents have been attached
a) Veterinary Medical Officer’s report on premises
b) Approximate sketch containing road instructions to reach the farm.
..................................
Applicant's Signature.
.................
Date
For office use
a) Pradeshiya Sabha Environment Officer’s Report:
b) Report of the Divisional Medical Officer of Health:

<!-- page 41 -->

41AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
It is hereby recommended/ not recommended it proper to issue a licence to conduct a livestock farm
according to the above mentioned details and report.
..................................
Secretary.
Date :-
It is hereby approved/not approved to issue a licence to conduct an animal rearing unit.
..................................
Chairman.
Date :-
BY-LAWS    RELATING   TO  PARKING  PLACES    FOR    HIRED    VEHICLES
1. Pradeshiya Sabha has been assigned with power under Section 126 (VII) (h) ofPradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15
of 1987 to draft this by law.
2. This By-law shall be enforced for the purpose of setting up parking places for hired vehicles within the
Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority, controlling and regulating such places and for levying charges on parking.
3. This By-law shall be cited as the By-law Relating to Parking Places for Hired Vehicles.
4. Except in places (hereinafter referred to as vehicle parking place) declared by the Chairman upon approval
by the Pradeshiya Sabha, in no other public place shall a motor vehicle be parked with the objective of
deploying it in hired service. Such places may be altered by a resolution passed at the Council and they may
also be declared.
5. It is lawful for the Council to decide and declare from time to time about the charges to be levied for parking
vehicles at places declared under above Section 4 within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority having taken
into consideration about and time periods permitted.
6. No person shall park or enter a motor vehicle to a parking place declared under Section 4 of this by-law and
located within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority unless under a permit obtained from the Chairman of
Pradeshiya Sabha or a person authorized by him and this regulation shall be in effect from 6.00 a.m. to 7.00
p.m.
7. Every permit issued by the Chairman under this by-law shall be valid for the time period for which it was
issued unless it was cancelled earlier by the Chairman or person authorized by him and where such permit be
an annual permit, it shall terminate from 31
st of December of the relevant calendar year.
8. Every person applying to obtain a permit for a time period more than one month to park a motor vehicle at a
parking place under this by-law shall duly fill an application in the format specified here in Schedule I and
submit, however, considering the space available to provide parking facility at the requested parking place,
the relevant permit shall be issued.
9. Unless the prescribed fee had been paid to park a motor vehicle at a parking place for hired vehicles, no
permit shall be issued to park a vehicle therein. Whenever a person authorized by the Chairman for the
relevant task or a Police Officer asks form the owner or driver of a vehicle parked in the parking place to
produce the permit issued to him, it shall be produced for the purpose of inspection.
10. An annual permit for the purpose of parking a vehicle at a parking place for hired vehicles shall be applied for
and obtained prior to 31
st of January.

<!-- page 42 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
42A
11. In every parking place for hired vehicles, the spaces designated to park vehicles shall be separately indicated
by drawing yellow or white lines with a width of 13 Centimeters and the vehicles shall be parked within the
said lined up spaces.
12. No vehicle shall be repaired or washed within the parking place except a minimal repair to a vehicle carried
on with the purpose of removing the said vehicle from its parked place within the parking place for hired
vehicles.
13. No person shall behave drunken or improper or indecent manner or be a nuisance to others within a parking
place for hired vehicles or in a vehicle parked at such place.
14. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for  such
offence by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is
continued even further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized
officer serves a written notice drawing attention to such contravention or violatton, for each day of such
continued contravention, the maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty
and maximum of the additional penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15 of 1987.
15. It shall be lawful to cancel the permit of a person who has offended this by-law twice or more, or subjected
under any other penalty by a court with proper jurisdiction.
16. Unless other interpretation is required regarding the text of this by-law ;
“Sabha” means the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Chairman” means the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Authorized Officer” means, an Officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha who has been authorized by the Chairman;
“Motor Vehicle or Hired Vehicle or Vehicle” means a Three-wheeler, Lorry, Van, Tractor, Truck, Car or Hand
Tractor.
“Police Officer” includes the interpretation given for the term under the Police Ordinance.
SCHEDULE NO. 01
APPLICATION   FOR   A   PERMIT  TO  PARK AT  A  HIRED  VEHICLE  PARKING   PLACE
1. Vehicle Number :
2. Category :
3. Owner’s Name, Identity Card No. :
4. Owner’s Telephone Number :
5. Address :
6. Driver’s Name :
7. Driver’s Identity Card No. :
8. Driving License Number :
9. Address :
10. Place requested to park the vehicle :
11. For which purpose is the vehicle being used :
12. Capacity of the Vehicle/ No. of seats :
I confirm that the above particulars are true and accurate.
..............................
Owner/Driver.
Date :...........................

<!-- page 43 -->

43AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
For Office Use
REPORT  OF  THE   REVENUE   INSPECTOR
1. Details of the Parking Place :
2. Pass Fee : Rs.....................
I recommend the issuance of permit/I do not recommend the issuance of permit based on following reasons.
........................................................................................................................................................................................
..............................
Revenue Inspector.
Date :...........................
Secretary's Recommendation
I recommend the issuance of permit / I do not recommend the issuance of permit based on following reasons.
........................................................................................................................................................................................
..............................
Secretary.
Date :...........................
According to the above report, issuance of the permit is approved/ not approved.
.............................
Chairman
................... Pradeshiya Sabha
Date:
BY-LAWS    RELATING  TO   SALE   OF  MEAT
1. Pradeshiya Sabha has been assigned with power under Section 126 (ix) (j) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15
of 1987 to draft this by-law.
2. This by-law shall be enforced to supervise, regularize and control the meat selling places within the Pradeshiya
Sabha area of authority and to levy charges on such.
3. This by-law shall be cited as the By-law Relating to Sale of Meat within the Pradeshiya Sabha Area of Authority.
4. No person shall without obtaining a valid license issued under provisions of this by-law by the Chairman of
Pradeshiya Sabha, use any premises within Pradeshiya Sabha Area of Authority for the purpose of selling
meat.
5. Provided that the sales premises applied for obtaining a licence under this by law is in conformity with the
conditions set out below, the Chairman shall not issue a licence to any person to carry on a meat sales centre.

<!-- page 44 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
44A
a) The place where meat is exhibited for sale shall be laid with tiles or plastered with cement or applied
with rust proof metal sheets.
b) The floor of the premises where meat is exhibited for sale and the floor of the stores shall be finished
off with cement or laid with tiles.
c) There shall be drains finished off with cement or laid with tiles with the necessary gradient to facilitate
the flow of waste water.
d) While sufficient precautions shall be put in place to prevent the waste water draining through the
drains referred to in paragraph (c) flowing to any public source of water, action shall be taken to drain
off such waste water to a suction pit.
e) The Suction Pit put in place to accept waste water shall not be opened to the air.
f) While water-sealed lavatory facilities sufficient for the use of the persons working in the premises
shall be made available, suitable sanitary methods and material to be made use of after the use of the
lavatory shall be supplied.
g) The part where meat will be kept hanging for sale or display shall be arranged in such a manner not
visible to the public directly.
6. Provided that the meat is of an animal slaughtered at a slaughter house formally licensed under the provisions
of the Butchers Ordinance, no person shall sell or exhibit for sale meat at any meat stall.
7. At the end of the daily sales of any licensed meat stall action shall be taken to wash and clean with
disinfectant fluid the floor, the tiled or cemented parts of the walls, logs used to cut meat, other utensils
and the places exhibiting meat for sale.
8. While containers sufficient to hold biodegradable waste produced at the meat market shall be made available,
action shall be taken at the end of the day’s sales to ground such waste material at least 0.5 meters deep in the
ground or dispose in accordance with provisions decided upon by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
9. Action shall be taken to maintain in perfect conditions and devoid of any bad smell the drains in and around
any licensed meat stall and all the containers and utensils used in storing, processing or sale of meat.
10. Provided that meat left behind unsold at the conclusion of daily sales at the licensed meat stall are stored in
a deep freezer and the said deep freezer had been properly activated from the time of storage until the
opening of the stall for sales on the following day no species of meat left behind unsold shall be sold or
exhibited for sale or kept in the deep freezer or at the licensed stall on the following day.
11. When the Authorized officer has gazetted a proclamation under the provisions of the Butchers Ordinance
prohibiting the slaughter of animals in any slaughter house for food during a certain day or over a period of
time no meat stall shall keep meat for sale or exhibit meat for sale or store meat at any meat stall.
12. Any licensed meat stall shall be kept devoid of dogs, cats, rats, insects or any other animal
13. Every meat stall may be kept open from 7.00 a.m. to 7.00 p.m. daily for sale of meat, except on days sales
of meat is prohibited by the licensing authority.
14. Except instruments and containers used for storage or processing or selling meat no other goods or
clothes or sleeping mats or any other material shall be kept at the licensed stall.

<!-- page 45 -->

45AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
15. No animals or bird shall be kept in the licensed place.
16. Action shall be taken to keep drinking water in sufficient quantities for the use of employees serving in
the licensed premises.
17. ( a) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation of a infectious, contagious or skin disease has
not elapsed no person suffering from such disease or had contacted such a disease in the recent past or
had been recently nursing anybody who is suffering from such a disease shall engage himself or employ
anybody or let anybody else engage in any form of sale or as an assistant of any person engaged in sale
at any meat stall.
(b) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engage himself or
employ anybody else in any form of sale at a meat stall.
(c) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees deployed at the meat stall to a medical test
at least once a year.
18. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety facemasks, gloves and other safety attire and materials
necessary to employees and to ensure that they are wearing these safety attire and materials at every occasion
when they are on duty at the meat stall. Also, a document containing those employees’ names, addresses and
identity card numbers shall be kept in the licenced premises.
19. It shall be the duty of the licensee to provide soap or soap fluid for the use of all persons employed at the
licensed premises.
20. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to buy a sample of any kind of meat kept
for sale or displayed for sale or stored inside the premises of any meat stall, no licensee shall desist or
prevent such purchase.
21. A name board identifying the place as a “meat selling place” shall be displayed by the licensee at the licensed
premises in the languages of Sinhala, Tamil and English including the licensee’s name, address and license
number.
In a licenced premises
(i) Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are recycled, it shall be the duty of
the licencee to take action to categorize the waste material under the categories of bio-degradable and
non-biodegradable materials and dispose them in separate containers or tanks with lids for the disposal
of each material.
(ii) Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks having being categorized in the manner set out in
paragraph (1) above is disposed of under the programme of waste management launched by the
Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribed by the Chairman.
23. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or authorized officer to enter the meat-stall, inspect and buy a sample
during appropriate times to inspect the regulations of these by-laws.
24. In the event of the premises where sale of meat is carried on under a licence issued under the By-laws of this
part fails to maintain it in accordance with any one of the provisions set out in Section No.5 or contravenes
the provisions of any by-law of the by-laws set out in this part or any other by-law, the Chairman shall take
action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore
the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.

<!-- page 46 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
46A
25. Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in Section No. 24 shall act in the manner prescribed in the
notice before the date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable reasons have been forwarded in
writing, the Chairman shall have power to extend the date specified in the said notice. However, the period of
such extension shall not exceed more than fourteen days.
26. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in Section No. 24 fails to act in accordance with the
manner set out in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the date extended it shall be lawful for
the Chairman to cancel the licence issued to that premises.
27. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such
offence by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is
continued even further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized
officer serves a written notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such
continued contravention, the maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty
and maximum of the additional penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act No. 15 of 1987.
28. Unless other interpretation is required regarding the text of this by-law ;
“Sabha” means the Pradeshiya Sabha
“Chairman” means the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha
“Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority” means the area in which the Pradeshiya Sabha has been established.
“Appropriate Time” means any time period during which meat is sold, displayed or stored at a meat stall
and kept open for business.
“Meat” means meat or body parts of an animal taken under the Butchers Ordinance
BY-LAWS  RELATING  TO  PRIV ATE  TUITION  INSTITUTIONS
1. Pradeshiya Sabha has been assigned with power under Section 126 (IX) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987 to draft this by-law.
2. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize and monitor the buildings where private tuition institutions are
conducted within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority.
3. This by law shall be cited as the By-law relating to Private Tuition Institutions within the Pradeshiya Sabha
area of authority.
4. No private tuition institution shall be conducted within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority by any owner
or caretaker conducting private tuition institution, without a licence obtained from the Chairman of Pradeshiya
Sabha for the said purpose.
5. In order to obtain the licence stipulated under above Section 4, an application conforming to the format set
out in Schedule I of this by-law shall be submitted to the Chairman along with the following mentioned
documents.
(a) Approved plan of the relevant building
(b) Internal layout
(c) Details on technical equipment utilized
6. Charges to be levied for a licence under this by-law shall have been decided by an annual resolution passed at
the Council and published in the Gazette paper.

<!-- page 47 -->

47AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
7. Unless a licence obtained under above Section 4 is cancelled earlier, it shall terminate from the 3151 December
of the year for which the said licence was obtained.
8. Every person applying for a licence under this by-law shall have fulfilled the following conditions at the time
of applying.
(a) Where the length of the lecture building extends up to 15 Meters or more than that, a stage facility of
0.5 Meters high shall be provided to the tutor to enable the tutor to be visible to the rear part of the
lecture building.
(b) Where the lecture hall extends up to IS Meters or more than that, sufficient public addressing systems
should have been provided.
(c) Sufficient fire extinguishing equipment should have been fixed within the building and they shall be in
active condition at any occasion of inspection by the Chairman or an officer authorized by him.
(d) Doors should be allocated to enter and exit and where the number of students exceeds 100, an additional
door should be allocated to exist in an emergency situation.
(e) Inside walls of the lecture hall shall have been painted in white paint from a height of 1 Meter upwards
from the floor level.
(f) The walls should be painted once a year or on occasion ordered by the Chairman to do so
(g) Sufficient first aid facilities should be provided within the buildings
(h) At the side walls of the lecture hall ventilators covering at least 1/4 area of the wall area shall be set
up to allow ample ventilation.
(i) The surrounding environment of the lecture hall shall be kept in constant state of cleanliness and
sufficient number of waste bins should be placed outside the hall for the purpose of disposing waste.
(g) Separate lavatory and urinary facilities as men’s and women’s should be allocated and such facilities
should be provided for a ratio of at least one lavatory for 50 students. Those lavatories and urinary shall
be kept in constant state of cleanliness having cleaned them with suitable disinfectant to prevent odour
from emanating, while sufficient water facilities should be available in active condition.
(k) Sufficient clean drinking water facilities should have been provided to students to the ratio of one tap
for 50 students.
(i) Seating facilities should be provided for students with seats not less than 50 Centimeters in height and
not less than 30 Centimeters in width with back rest. If seats are not allocated separately for each
student, at least 60 Centimeter length space should be allocated per student from the seat provided.
(m) Each student should be provided with a table 60 Centimeters long and 45 Centimeters wide.  If separate
tables are not arranged for each student, at least 60 Centimeters length should be allocated for one
student from the table provided. The maximum length of a table should be 3.5 Meters.
(n) When arranging the chairs and tables in the lecture hall, the minimum space between two tables should
be 60 Centimeters.
(o) In every occasion, the tables and chairs allocated for students’ use shall be in proper usable condition.

<!-- page 48 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
48A
9. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an officer authorized by the Chairman to enter whatever private tuition
institution at all justifiable hours and inspect it.
10. Provided that a place issued with a licence under this by-law to conduct a private tuition institution should
cease to function in compliance to any regulation under this by-law, a notice ordering the licencee to carry
out everything required to restore the said place according to the said regulation prior to a date specified,
shall cause to be served to the licencee by the Chairman.
11. Any licencee, upon receiving a notice under Section 10, shall take action as ordered by the said notice prior
to a date specifically mentioned in that notice. Where acceptable reasons have been forwarded, the Chairman
shall have power to extend the date specified in that notice. However, the date of such extension shall not
exceed more than 14 days.
12. Where a licencee having received a notice under Section 10 has defaulted taking action prior to the date
specifically mentioned in that notice or extended date, cancellation of the licence issued to such place by
the Chairman shall be lawful.
13. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such
offence by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is
continued even further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized
officer serves a written notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such
continued contravention, the maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty
and maximum of the additional penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act No. 15 of 1987.
14. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this by-law
“Council” means the Pradeshiya Sabha
“Chairman” means the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha
“Authorized Officer” means, an Officer who has been authorized by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha;
“Private Tuition Institution” means an additional teaching institution which is conducted by charging a fee
from students.
S
CHEDULE  NO. 01
APPLICATION   FOR   OBTAINING   A   LICENCE   TO   CONDUCT   A   PRIV ATE   TUITION   INSTITUTION
01. Applicant’s Name :
02. Address :
03. Identity Card No. :
04. Telephone Number :
05. Name of the Eductional Institution :
06. Address :
07. Registered No. :
08. Documents Presented :
I. Building plan Yes No
II. Layout Yes No
III. T echnical Equipment Yes No
09. Other Details
I confirm that the above particuluars are true and accurate
Applicant's Signature :................................................                   Date :..........................................

<!-- page 49 -->

49AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
For office use
Subject Clerk
Application for the building Correct Incorrect
Revenue Inspector/Layout Correct Incorrect
It is proper to issue the licence
Signatures
1. ....................................... .
2 ........................................ .
I recommend/not recommended the issuance of licence
Secretary :.....................................
Approved/not approved
.............................
Chairman
BY-LAWS    RELATING   TO  SLAUGTHER  HOUSES
01. Pradeshiya Sabha has been assigned with power under Section 126 (xi)(i) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987 to draft this by law.
02. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize, monitor, inspect and control public slaughterhouses within the
Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority and to levy charges on such.
03. This by-law shall be cited as the By-law Relating to Slaughterhouses Established within the Pradeshiya Sabha
Area of Authority.
04. Every slaugther house shall be kept under the custody of a slaughterhouse caretake.
05. Unless within the time periods ordered by the proper authority from time to time only, no licenced butcher
shall be allowed to slaughter animals within slaughterhouses.
06. A licenced butcher shall slaughter animals only in the space allocated for such purpose within the
slaughterhouse by the slaughterhouse caretaker.
07. No animal shall be slaughtered unless the Divisional Medical Health Officer or an officer authorized by him
has inspected the animal and issued with a permit to slaughter that animal.
08. A permit issued under above Section 7 shall be valid up to seven days from the date of issue of that permit.

<!-- page 50 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
50A
09. A document confirming the prior ownership of the animal to be slaughtered shall be in possession of the
slaughterhouse caretaker and details relating to animal’s nature and other information related to prior ownership
as well as all other details containing in a format approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha shall be kept in custody
of the slaughterhouse caretaker.
10. Any person failing to produce the confirmations of following mentioned facts regarding an animal to the
slaughterhouse caretaker prior to its entering to the slaughterhouse shall not be allowed to enter the said
animal to the slaughterhouse.
(a) Identification certificate ;
(b) Fitness certificate ;
(c) Permit.
11. To prevent animals brought into the slaughterhouse from escaping, they shall be tied up with ropes or other
safety measures should have been taken.
12. Every licenced butcher shall register in the Pradeshiya Sabha office the names of employees who are willing
to serve as butchers in his business of butchery and rejection to register certain name or cancellation of an
already registered name may be performed by the Chairman or an officer  authorized by him. No person or
persons unregistered or whose name had been cancelled shall not be employed or kept in service by a licenced
butcher.
13. Every licenced butcher shall, as soon as obtaining a certified copy of his licence and a certified copy of the
certificate obtained by him after registering the names of employees serving in the butchery, handover such
to the caretaker of the slaughterhouse.
14. Hides, intestines and discarded parts of slaughtered animals shall be collected by the butcher or his employees
at places assigned for cleaning them by washing, prior to their removal.
15. In respect of any damage or loss to the slaughterhouse owing to actions of the licenced butcher or his
registered employees at the time of using the slaughterhouse by them, the licenced butcher shall hold
responsibility and the losses incurred thus shall be paid the licencee. Defaulting the payment of loss may
cause the Chairman to cancel the licence or as an alternative, to charge the amount of loss from the licenced
butcher or his guarantors, or to exercise both such penalties.
16. The slaughterhouse caretaker shall not let any person suffering from a skin disease, leprosy or an infectious
or contagious disease to enter the slaughterhouse.
17. In terms of animals, it is lawful for the Council to decide on the charges to be levied per animal for the tasks
mentioned below through a resolution adopted by it from time to time.
(1) To use slaughterhouses
(a) Cattle
(b) Pigs and goats
(2) To feed cattle (for a period of 24 hours or part therein)
(a) Cattle
(b) Pigs and goats
(3) To use the shed
(a) Cattle
(b) Pigs and goats

<!-- page 51 -->

51AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
18. Due to the reason of defaulting payments payable and if such payment defaulting is continued further, after
being informed about it, the Chairman may take action to sell at public auction, subsequent to publicizing
about such auction two days before such auction date, of an animal retained in the slaughterhouse. From the
money received from such selling, the Chairman, having retained a certain amount to compensate for charges
receivable and expenses incurred on behalf of that animal, may pay the residual amount, if any, to the person
who brought the animal to slaughterhouse to be slaughtered upon his request. Failure of the person who
brought the animal to the slaughterhouse to request for such payment within a year subsequent to auction
sale, such amount should be credited to the Council Fund.
19. Prohibiting by the caretaker of the slaughterhouse or Divisional Medical Officer of Health or an officer
authorized by him the slaughtering of an animal identified as not suitable for human consumption due to
illness or any other reason, is lawful eventhough a licence had already been issued at that point.
20. The person responsible for bringing in the animal rejected from being issued with a permit for slaughtering
or prohibited from slaughtering shall remove such animal within 12 hours from such rejection or prohibition
order and action shall be taken as per provisions of Section 18 in case of defaulting such removal within the
given time period.
21. No person shall remove and take away the meat, hide, intestines or discarded meat of any animal slaughtered
in a public slaughterhouse without a permit issued by the Chairman or an officer authorized by him for the
said task under a format approved by the Council. Where the relevant permit was requested by certain officer
of Pradeshiya Sabha from a person removing and taking away such meat, hide, intestines or discarded meat,
it shall be produced for inspection.
22. No dog shall be allowed inside the slaughterhouse and no owner or caretaker of a dog shall take or allow
entering a dog into the slaughterhouse. All the dogs found inside a slaughterhouse shall be considered as
stray dogs and measures shall be taken accordingly.
23. No butcher or a butcher’s registered employee or any other person allowed to enter the slaughterhouse may
make unnecessary noise, create brawl or squabble, or use contemptuous, abusive or derogatory words within
the slaughterhouse.
24. Unless having obtained a licence specially from the proper authority, slaughtering an animal by a person
other than a licenced butcher within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority is illegal and even a person who
has obtained such licence should not carry out such slaughter having deviated from the place stated in the
said licence or conditions stipulated therein. In an application for such special licence, details conforming
to the Format “a” in the Schedule of Cattle Branding, Transfer and Sale Ordinance (Chapter 473) should be
included regarding the animal to be slaughtered, whereas, it shall be sent along with a report obtained from
the Police Officer of the applicant’s area or Grama Niladhari that the applicant owns such animal. A sum not
exceeding Rupees Two Hundred Fifty (Rs. 250/-) and decided upon by the Council shall be paid to obtain this
special licence.
25. Every slaughterhouse shall be washed at least twice a day and keeping it under proper maintenance shall be
slaughterhouse caretaker’s responsibility.
26. Subsequent to slaughtering an animal approved to be slaughtered as above, in case it was found out that the
corpse of the said animal is infected with certain disease or is unsuitable for human consumption, measures
shall be taken by the Chairman or an authorized person to dispose it in order to prevent it from being used as
a human food. The decision taken with regard to it by the Veterinary Medical Officer or Medical Officer of
Health shall be the final decision. When action is taken thus, no party has the right to request a compensation.

<!-- page 52 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
52A
27. No person, other than the butchers, their assistants, Pradeshiya Sabha officers related to the slaughterhouse
and authorized persons, shall be allowed to enter the slaughterhouse during the process of animal slaughtering,
skinning or carving.
28. All the discarded meat or other waste left out in the slaughterhouse by the butchers or their assistants
shall be disposed without causing nuisance.
29. A person shall take meat of any animal to outside in a manner such meat is protected from sunlight, dust,
rain and covered well to be not visible to the public.
30. Every time an animal is slaughtered within the slaughterhouse it shall be carried out under a proper
covering not visible to any other animal.
31. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such
offence by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is
continued even further and when convicted for that offence or when the Chairman or other authorized officer
serves a written notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued
contravention, the maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum
of the additional penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987.
32. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this by-law
“Chairman” means the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Council” means the Pradeshiya Sabha
“Authorized Officer” mean an officer authorized by the Chairman
“Proper Authority” means the Chairman or an officer authorized by him
“Slaughterhouse Caretaker” means a person appointed to watch over a slaughterhouse or person conducting
a slaughterhouse,
“Discarded Meat” means the meat unsuitable for human consumption,
“Animals” means interpreation under the Butchers' Ordinance.
BY-LAW  ON  CONTROLLING  WEIGHT   AND   SPEED  OF   VEHICLES   RUNNING   ON   PRADESHIYA
SABHA   THOROUGHFARES
1. Pradeshiya Sabha has been assigned with power under Section 126 (vii) (c) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15
of 1987 to draft this by law.
2. This by-law shall be enforced to specify weigh and speed limits in Pradeshiya Sabha roads in Pradeshiya
Sabha areas of authority and thereby to prevent damages that may be caused to roads or thoroughfares and
allocate provisions to control transportation of heavy vehicles in such roads.
3. This by-law shall be named as the’By-Iaw on Controlling Weight and Speed of V ehicles Running on Pradeshiya
Sabha Thoroughfares’.
4. From among the Pradeshiya Sabha thoroughfares located within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority, it is
lawful for the Pradeshiya Sabha to decide and announce by way of a resolution passed at the Council from
time to time as to the maximum weight and speed of a vehicle to be run on a Pradeshiya Sabha road or on part
thereof.
5. The Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall display by way of a notice board prepared as per format indicated
in the Schedule below and erected alongside the relevant road or at the starting/ending points of the part of
the road or at access points from other roads connecting to the said road or part thereof, the maximum

<!-- page 53 -->

53AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
weight and maximum speed of a vehicle to run on a Pradeshiya Sabha road or part thereof as decided by the
Council as per Section 4 above.
6. Every notice displayed under above Section 5 shall be prepared and displayed according to provisions
stated in Thoroughfares Ordinance and Motor Transport Act.
7. Every decision taken under above Section 4 shall be made having taken the following matters into
consideration.
a) Width of the relevant road
b) Nature and thickness of material used to construct the road surface
c) The slanting angle of the road
d) The nature of the land on which road has been constructed
e) The weight endurable by bridges and culverts
f) Nature of vehicles travelling
8. Where a road or part thereof be closed down due to reconstruction or other activity to a Pradeshiya Sabha
road, a notice related to such closure shall be displayed by the Chairman three days prior to such closer, at
the connecting-point to the relevant road or part thereof and at other access points from other roads to the
said closed down road.
9. Where the Pradeshiya Sabha hasdisplayed a notice under Section 5 of this by-law after deciding the weight
and speed limits to a Pradeshiya Sabha road, no person shall drive vehicles in such road exceeding the weight
and speed limits specified thus.
10. Where weight and speed limits have been decided under this by-law for a Pradeshiya Sabha road, no person
shall discard or dispose of any material, or discharge collected water to such road, in a manner causing
damage to the said road.
11. Where weight and speed limits have been decided under this by-law for a Pradeshiya Sabha road, no person
shall let a tree or part of thereof protrude on to the road obstructing the speed to be maintained in such road.
12. In the event of a person continuously utilizing a Pradeshiya Sabha road or part thereof,which has a weight and
speed limitation imposed as per Section 4 of this by-law, for a business task to transport the maximum
weight, it is lawful for the Pradeshiya Sabha to charge a fee as decided by it as compensation to damage
caused to the road or part therein on a contract reached by Pradeshiya Sabha with such person.
13. It is lawful for the Chairman, on timely necessity, to make an order to be valid for some time to limit
transportation of a maximum weight, or to limit travelling of vehicles, or to allow travelling of vehicles to
one side on a Pradeshiya Sabha road or on part therein, or decide on the maximum speed to be maintained at
such times by further limiting the maximum speed prescribed as per Section 4 above.
14. Breach or contravention of whatever provision of this by-law is an offence and when convicted before a
court of proper jurisdiction with regard to the relevant offence, the maximum penalty that may be imposed
and where such breach or contravention is continued further even after being convicted, and where the said
contravention is continued even further subsequent to being handed over a written notice by the Chairman or
other authorized officer drawing attention to the said contravention, the maximum of the additional penalty
that may be imposed for each day of such contravention shall accord to the provisions of Clause 122(2) of
the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.

<!-- page 54 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.02.2016
54A
15. Taking proper and suitable action by the Chairman or an officer authorized by him to inspect the weight of a
vehicle travelling on a road with maximum weight and speed declaredas per Section 4 of this by-law, shall be
lawful.
16. Unless other interpretation is required with regard to text :
“Council” means the  Pradeshiya Sabha established under Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 5 of 1987
“Chairman” means the Chairman selected for the Pradeshiya Sabha
“Person” means an individual or board of persons or a statutory institution.
“Vehicle” includes the interpretation given under Motor Traffic Ordinance.
“Weight” includes the total weight directed on to the axel including the weight of the vehicle and material
loaded into it from outside.
S
CHEDULE
Maximum Wieght Maximum Speed
.............................Metric ................................
Tons Kmph
Chairman, Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha Pradeshiya Sabha
03-223
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.