

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'25
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2014
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notifications
wxl 1877$16 – 2014 wf.daia;= 25 jeks i÷od – 2014'08'25
No. 1877/16 – MONDAY, AUGUST 25, 2014
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
My No.: Cl/1779.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Asia Pacific Brewery (Lanka) Ltd, No. 46, Welikadawatta, Nawala Road, Rajagiriya of the
one part and the Inter Company Employees Union, No. 12/2, Weera Mawatha, Sri Subuthipura, Battaramulla of the other part on 18th day
of November 2013  is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments
of Ceylon ,  (Revised Edition 1956).
W. J. L. U. WIJAYAWEERA,
Acting Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
08th August, 2014.
Collective Agreement No. 18 of 2014
COLLECTIVE   AGREEMENT
THIS  AGREEMENT entered into  by and between  Asia Pacific Brewery (Lanka) Ltd., a Company duly incorporated in Sri Lanka and
having  its  registered office at  No. 46, Welikadawatta, Nawala Road, Rajagiriya, (hereinafter referred to as "the Employer")  and the Inter
Company Employees Union, a trade Union duly registered in Sri Lanka, having its registered office at  No. 12/2, Weera Mawatha, Sri
Subuthipura, Battaramulla, (hereinafter referred to as ‘‘the Union’’)
1A – G 20120 – 12  (2014 / 08)

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'25
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2014
WHEREAS  after representations were by the Union for a revision of salaries for their members covered and bound and by the
Employer for the implementation of a new work arrangement at their brewary at Mawathagama, parties have, after discussions, arrived at
the following terms of settlement.
1. Parties Covered and Bound.– This Collective Agreement shall cover and bind the  employer,  the union and the members (save
and except non-permanent employees)  of the union employed by the employer on permanent monthly contracts of employment (herein-
after referred to collectively as  "the Employees " and individually as  " the Employee ") at their brewey at Mawathagama.
2. Effective Date and  Operation of the Agreement.– This Agreement shall   take effect from 1st October, 2013 and shall , unless it
is repudiated by either party by giving one month's written notice to the other, shall continue to remain in force provided, ho wever, that
neither party shall give such notice prior to  the  31st day of December, 2014. and the  Agreement shall not stand terminated proir to the 31st
day of December, 2014.
3. Wage Revision.–
l The Employer agrees to grant a total wage increase of 10%, with effect from the 1st October, 2013 to Employees covered by
way of revision of wages for the period of the agreement.
l The Employer further agrees to grant an increase in production incentive of Rs. 500/- per month if the production exceeds
175,000 crgates of beer in the preceding month and a further Rs. 500/- per month, if the production exceeds 200,000 crates
of beer in the preceding month.
The Union and the Employees hereby agree that other than what has been agreed in this agreement no further demands  will be made from
the Employer for wage increases and/or any other pecuniary matters during the operation of this Agreement.
4. Other Terms and Conditions.– Parties agree  that the terms and conditions hitherto applicable shall continue to be in force subject
to the revisions set out in this Agreement.
5. Productivity Improvement Measures and Performance of Overtime.–
(a) It is agreed by the Union and the Employees to fully support all endeavours of the management of the Employer to improve
Total Productivity Management.
(b) It is agreed by parties  that in addition to provisions that are already in force, parties shall strictly adhere to the princi ples
relating to work ethics and discipline, as set out in Schedule 1 of this Agreement.
(c) It is also agreed by the Union and the Employees that the Employees shall fully cooperate in implementing the new work
arrangements and carryout any overtime to meet the exigencies  of the Employer (including the performance of overtime work
on public holidays).
(d) The management of  the Employer agrees to abide by all legal obligations in relation to the payment of wages for overtime
work in consideration of matters set out in (b) above and to give adequate notice of overtime work to be performed by the
Employees.
(e) In the event of absenteeism or other staffing requirement, the sole discretion of allocation of duties, including overtime, shall
be with the Management. Employees should  strictly follow the leave policy.
6. The Union, the Employer and the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement undertake that they shall not during the
continuance of this Agreement seek to vary or change, in any manner, any of the terms and conditions agreed upon herein. The Union and
the Employees covered and bound agree that they shall not resort to any form of Trade Union action in relation to any dispute connected
with or arising out of any matter covered by this Agreement.
7. Staff Welfare Outing.– The Employees will be entitled to a two day Annual Outing.
8. Union AGM.– A day's leave shall also be granted for purpose of attending the Annual General Meeting of the Union.
9. Disputes Settlement Procedure.– In the event of a dispute arising out of this Agreement, parties agree to submit the matter for
conciliation pursuant to the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act.
In the event of a dispute arising out of a matter not covered by this Agreement, parties agree to strictly abide by the Dispute
Resolution Procedure set out in the Check-Off Agreement that binds parties.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'25
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2014
3A
Schedule 1
WORK ETHIC AND DISCIPLINE
With objective achieving a higher standard of work ethics and discipline in the brewery, it is agreed that parties to this collective agreement
shall, in addition to provisions that are currently applicable, respect and adhere to following.
* Use of Personal Protection Equipment, (PPE) shall be mandatory and noncompliance will result in disciplinary  action.
* Employees shall extend fullest cooperation  to participate in training  activities/programs organized by the company.
* Flexibility and freedom of management to  allocate staff to respective machines/ equipment as per the capabilities and skills of the
shift  crew shall be respected.
* Any grievance  or dispute shall be addressed in terms of the procedure applicable in the company without stoppages of work.
* The management shall have the  right to require employees  to submit to breathlyser  tests carried out at random in order to prevent
the unauthorized consumption of beer/ liquor within brewery premises
* All employees to extend their fullest cooperation in relation to the maintenance work and on going  cleaning of lines and equipment
carried out by personnel assigned to such, including permanent cadre.
* Employees will strictly adhere to the company's leave policy (Telephone calls will not be entertained unless in the case of an
emergency)
* Handover the shift work / machine to the next person shall be carried out thus ensuring continuous production.
* Employees shall not either  interfere with the CCTV system or cause any damage to such equipment.
* Employees shall at all times, conduct themselves in a manner befitting employees of the Company, safeguarding the reputation of
the  company.  This also applies to behaviour and conduct during external  training programs and company outings.
09 - 271
IN WITNESS HEREOF  the parties have hereunto set their hands on this  18th Day of November, Two Thousand and thirteen, in
Colombo.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA