

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.11.2013
w;s úfYI
wxl 1837$10 - 2013 fkdjeïn¾ ui 20 jeks nodod - 2013'11'20
No. 1837/10 - WEDNESDAY ,  NOVEMBER  20,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
The Indigenous Medical Statute No. 03 of 2013 of that the Western Province Provincial Council
I hereby inform that the Western Province Provincial Council Indigenous Medical Statute No. 03 of 2013 which was passed
at the Western Province Provincial Council meeting held on 18.06.2013 and which has received the assent of the Hon.
Governor, Western Province on 09.10.2013 is being implemented with effect from 25.10.2013.
J
AGATH ANGAGE,
Minister of Health, Indigenous Medicine, Social Welfare &
Women Affairs, Probation and Child Care Services
and Council Affairs - Western Province.
No. 175,
Stanley Thilalakaratna Mawatha,
Nugegoda,
Minister of Health, Indigenous Medicine, Social Welfare & Women Affairs,
Probation and Child Care Services and Council Affairs
Western Province,
25th October, 2013.
THE   INDIGENOUS  MEDICAL  STATUTE  NO.  03  OF  2013  OF  WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL.
In compliance with the subject of “Indigenous Medicine” stipulated  in list 1 schedule 9 of the Constitution of Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Western Provincial Council with a view to healing the diseases of the people living in Western
Province, the curative services, health education and establishment  and maintenance of indigenous community medical
services, promotion and preservation of matters, relating to indigenous medicine, establishment of indigenous medical
institutions, their maintenance, development and facilitation, establishment, maintenance and extension of medicinal herb
parks, the registration of indigenous medical institutions and employees in Western Province , their monitoring and supervision
and other matters connected and incidental to them by application of  indigenous medical system, the Western Provincial
does enact this statute as follows. The provisions of this Statute are inconsistent with Ayurveda Act, no 3 of 1961.
Thus the Western Provincial Council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka does therefore enacts as follows.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
4 — PG  001833

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -20.11.2013
2A
1. This statute maybe sided as “Indigenous Medical Statute No 03 of 2013” of Western province and
shall come to operation with effect from the date on which the Governor of western province
approves it.
Part 1
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF PROVINCIAL INDIGENOUS MEDICAL DEPARTMENT- ITS
COMPOSITION AND ROLE.
2. For realization of the objectives of this Statute, a  Department tilled as Western Province Indigenous
Medical Department (herein after referred to as   “Department” shall be established).
3. (1) The Western Provincial Commissioner of Indigenous Medicine here in after referred to as
“Commissioner” shall be the Head of the Department which has been established under the
provisions of section 2 of this statute.
(2) There shall be a staff consisting of  Deputy Commissioners and Indigenous Medical Practitioners
to assist the Commissioner.
(3) The provisions of Provincial Council Act , No. 42 of 1987 shall apply for the matters of
appointment of staff, transfers, and termination of service, discipline and to other incidental
matters.
4. The objectives of the Department are as follows :
(a) As stipulated in section 12 list No 1 schedule No 9 Constitution No 154 (a) in 13
th amendment
to Constitution of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 1978, the establishment of
indigenous medical hospitals and their maintenance, establishment of other institutions where
patients are provided with treatments according to indigenous medical system, their effective
maintenance, provision of facilities, assistance and incentives ;
(b) To streamline the  maintenance of indigenous medical systems for the promotion of health
conditions of citizen living within the area of Western Provincial Council, aiming at regular
maintenance curative services healing, and Medical Educational Affairs ;
(c) The establishment and maintenances of medicinal herb parks for the purpose of conservation
of indigenous medicinal plants ;
(d) Monitoring of any Indigenous Medical Dispensary, Hospital, Massage Centre, Pharmacy and
Pharmaceutical Manufacturing institution coming under or interpreted as Ayurveda, Siddha,
Unani Indigenous, or traditional medical systems.
5. The functions of the Department will be as follows :
(a) Establishment of hospitals, dispensaries other institutions engaged in treatment for patients
under indigenous medical systems and to ensure their effective, efficient functioning and their
maintenance and monitoring ;
(b) Preparation of plans necessary for the promotion of health condition of the people living
within the province and their operations ;
Short title & the
Date of  the
enacement.
The
establishment of
Provincial
Indigenous
Medical
Department’
The
Commissioner
of Indigenous
Medicine of
Western
Provincial
Council and
staff.
The objectives
of Department.
Functions of the
department

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.11.2013
(c) Improvement of the quality of Para-medical services and to take necessary actions for
propagation of Indigenous medical systems ;
(d) The promotion of knowledge and training of personnel, working in indigenous medical
institutions ;
(e) Registration of governmental, non-governmental, semi-governmental or organizations affiliated
to government, related to Indigenous medicine, within Western Province, in accordance with
government policies and accepted standards and stipulation of guidance, standards, norms,
and their maintenance, supervision, and monitoring ;
(f) Establishment of medical herbs parks and their maintenance ;
(g) Provisions of incentives for cultivation of medical herbs and promotion of  knowledge pertaining
to that ;
(h) Establishment of Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Laboratories in keeping with national policies
and accepted standards their maintenance and distribution of a drugs among the institutions
that are being carried out by the department ;
(i) Expansion of community medical services for the people living in the Province and provisions
of the services at instances of infectious diseases and other emergencies ;
(j) Encouragement in the production of drugs required by indigenous medical institutions and
promotion of awareness with regard to such activities ;
(k) The inspection, guidance and encouragement of governmental, non-governmental, semi-
governmental, and other indigenous medical institutions affiliated to the government with
regard to their functioning in accordance with national policies and accepted standards;
(l) Collection and information indigenous medical health services provided within the province
and related propaganda work ;
(m) Collection of  information pertaining to indigenous traditional medical systems and conservation
and promotion of such information ;
(n) Obtaining funds and material aids from foreign sources, in keeping with national policies and
accepted standards for development programs and/or implementation of technical programs at
the performance of departmental functions and responsibilities ;
(o) Formulation of provincial indigenous medical policies in keeping with national policies.
6. (1) Vesting of powers on the department within the limits imposed by common law for realization
of objectives of the department provided by the statute.
(2) Any information, documents or records, necessary for realization of objectives coming under
this statute, are requested by the commissions or by any other officer authorized by the
commissioner for any governmental or non-governmental indigenous medical institution or
from any other person shall provide, the requested information, documents or records.
Part II
INDIGENOUS  MEDICAL  INSTITUTIONS
7. (1) No person shall organize or operate an indigenous medical institution on a date or thereafter
fixed by a Gazette notification published by subject minister, unless,
(a) The Commissioner has authorized that person to operate an indigenous medical Institution
by a license issued by the Commissioner.
The powers of
department.
Registration of
indigenous
medicine
institutions.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -20.11.2013
4A
(b) The premises where the particular indigenous medical institution will be housed has
already been certified by the Commissioner as a house suitable for housing an indigenous
medical institution and certificate has been issued in that respect ;
(c) The governmental, non-governmental, semi-governmenta lindigenous medical institutions
or such institutions affiliated to the government in Western Province, which have been
operating by the time that this statute come in to operation, and has been registered under
Ayurveda Act, no 31 of 1961, shall be re-registered under the provisions of this statute as
well. ;
(d) The registration attended to as above will be valid for a period of 02 calendar years from
such date of registration.
(2) ( a) Every application meant for registration of an indigenous medical institution should be in
the prescribed form and be addressed to Commissioner, along with the registration fee ;
(b) The Commissioner upon receipt of an application in terms of 2(a) above for registration of
an indigenous medical institution shall refer it to Community Indigenous Medical Officer
of the relevant Divisional Secretariat area for a report of observations ;
(c) The Ayurveda Community Medical Officer upon receipt of such intimation from the
Provincial Commissioner should submit a report with his/her observations within a period
60 days from such intimation ;
(d) The Commissioner after Consideration of the report of observations submitted should
follow the following procedure.
I. Should register the indigenous medical institution and should issue a licenses for
that effect and issue the license to the effect that the premises where the institution
be housed is suitable for that purpose ;
II. Should otherwise reject the application if it does not comply with the regulations/
rules coming under the provisions of the statute, and should inform the applicant in
writing that his/her application is rejected ;
III. Any rejections under Para 2 above should be intimated with the reasons to the
relevant applicant within (60 days) from the date of rejection.
(e) (I) If any applicant is dissatisfied with the Commissioner’s decision for rejection of his/ her
application he/ she can make an appeal against that decision to the Secretary within 21
days of intimation of that rejection to him/ her.
(II) The Secretary upon receipt of such an appeal should intimate the applicant his delusion
on the appeal within 60 days from the date of his receipt of the appeal.
(f) The registration fee should be levied in accordance with the regulations enacted by Provincial
Minister in charge of the subject.
8. (1) The Commissioner if he considers it is necessary can delegate his powers for the performance
of matters and functions coming under this Statute to any other officer or to a committee and
upon such delegation that officer or the committee is under obligation to carryout
Commissioner’s normal or special orders in this regard.
(2) Any person authorized by the Commissioner in writing,can enter any of the registered
indigenous medical institutions or its premises at any time subjected to the limitations imposed
The powers and
functions of the
commissioner in
respect of
registered
Indigenous
medical
institutions 
.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.11.2013
by the law of the land, in order to perform the matters and functions coming under this Statute
in terms of 7(2) (c) and/or 7(2)(c)(1) of it and attend to any of the  following matters.
(a) Conduct and inspection about the premises ;
(b) To consult any person or patient in those premises ;
(c) To check the documents or reports maintained by the institution and take their Photostat
copies ;
(d) To instruct or order the owner or any other occupier of the premises to follow the rules and
regulations imposed by this Statute, as their functions ;
9. In carrying out the matters and functions coming under this Statute, if the Commissioner requests
the support of the Police, it is obligatory by the Police to extend such support.
Part III
INDIGENOUS  MEDICAL  EMPLOYEES
10. No person shall work in the capacity of an indigenous medical employee within Western Province
provided he/she has duly been registered by the Commissioner as an indigenous medical employee
on the date or thereafter fixed by the Subject Minister by a Gazette notification.
11. (1)  Every application for registration as an indigenous medical employee shall be addressed to
the Commissioner properly and in writing. Such application shall accompany necessary
testimonials.
(2) Any person whose registration as an indigenous medical employee has been cancelled by the
Commissioner he/she can re-apply for registration.
12. (1) The Commissioner shall maintain separate registers in respect of following categories of
employees.
(a)  Indigenous medical Pharmacists.
(b) Indigenous medical Attendants.
(c) Indigenous medical Panchakarma Therapists and/or Masseurs
(2) The Commissioner is responsible for proper custody and maintenance of documents stipulated
in (1) above.
13. No person is eligible to be registered as an indigenous medical employee, provided he/she is
(1) A citizen of Sri Lanka;
(2) Holds a certificate of proficiency from an institution recognized by the Commissioner, after
successfully completed an educational course in the relevant field at that institution; and,
(3) The Commissioner is satisfied that person concerned is, as the case may be, possesses adequate
knowledge and experience in the relative professions such as, Pharmaceutical, Patient care,
Panchakarma therapy, relating to Indigenous Medicine.
Registration of
indigenous
medical
employees.
The
requirements for
registration as
an indigenous
medical
employee.
5 — PG  001833

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -20.11.2013
6A
14. Upon receipt of an application for registration as an indigenous medical employee under sub
section 11(1) ;
(1) If the applicant complies with the rules stipulated by this Statute, he/she should be registered
as an indigenous medical employee and a license of registration shall be issued in his/her
name. or
(2) Those applications inconsistent with the rules and requirements specified for registration
shall be rejected and action shall be taken to intimate the rejection to the applicant in writing.
(3) The reason for rejection of an application under 14(2) above shall be intimated to the relevant
applicant in writing within 30 days of such rejection
15. At instances where an applicant for registration, has been punished by a law court, which possesses
the jurisdiction over the matter for an offence committed that he/she committed punishable under
Penal Code, then the Commissioner can reject his/her application or if has already been registered
shall cancel such a registration.
16. Every registered Indigenous Medical Employee can work in the capacity of an Indigenous Medical
Employee in the profession for which he/she has been registered within the Western Province.
17. (1) No person shall be deployed to work in the capacity of a Pharmacist Attendant, or Masseur to
perform any such functions in an indigenous medical institution, provided he/she has duly
been registered under the provisions of this Statute.
`(2) The owner of a registered indigenous medical institution shall produce a list of names of his/
her employees to the Commissioner once in every 3 months.
18. (1) Any aggrieved party whose application for registration has been rejected by the Commissioner
under 14(2) can submit an appeal against such decision to the Secretary within 21 days from
the date of intimation of the rejection of him.
(2) The secretary upon his receipt of the appeal shall intimate his decision in writing to the
applicant within 30 days of  his receipt of the appeal.
19. (1) No person shall use the words and phrases such as “Aurvedha”, “Siddha”,”Unani” or
“Traditional Medicine”, unless he/she has been duly authorized eventually by the Commissioner
in writing.
(2) The use of the words “Aurvedha”, “Siddha”,”Unani” or “Traditional Medicine” as described
in 2(1) above will also include the use as the introduction or any or more of those words, before
(a) A designation or a name;   or
(b) On a name board or a on a sign board; or
(c) In a commercial advertisement through electronic or printed media; or
(d) In a notice, name boards prospects or pamphlets or in written media of any other nature.
Registration or
rejection of an
application to
be registered as
an Ingenious
Medical
Employee.
The reason for
registration
cancellation or
suspension of an
application for
registration
.
The registered
indigenous
medical
employees are
entitled to work
in Western
Province.
Appeals against
the rejection of
applications for
the registration.
Use of the words
and phrases such
as “Ayurvrda”,
“Siddha”,
“Unani” or
Traditional
Medicine”coming
under indigenous
medicine

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.11.2013
Part IV
OFFENCES  AND  PENALTIES
20. Any person who operates an indigenous medical institution without been registered under
subsection 7(1) of this Statute does thereby commit an offence and if found guilty at a summary
trial before a Magistrate is liable for a fine not exceeding Rupees Two Hundred Thousand or to an
imprisonment not exceeding six months (06) or to a punishment of both descriptions.
21. Any person who employs himself/herself in the capacity of an Indigenous Medical Employee
without been duly registered under subsection 16 (1) of this Statute does thereby commit an
offence, if found guilty at a summary trial before a Magistrate is liable for a fine not exceeding
Rupees Fifty Thousand or to an imprisonment not exceeding six months (06) or a punishment of
both descriptions.
22. Any person who disobey or obstruct the activities of an officer who has been delegated with
normal of special powers, under section 7(2) (b) and sub section 8(1) of this Statute or violate the
provisions of the Statute, thereby commits an offence, and if found guilty at a summary trial
before a Magistrate is liable for a fine not less than Rupees Five Thousand and not more than
Rupees Twenty Five Thousand or for an imprisonment not exceeding 06 months or for a punishment
of both descriptions.
23. Any person who violates the provisions stipulated in sub section 17(1) and/or (2) of this Statute
does thereby commits an offence and if found guilty at a summery trial before a Magistrate is
liable for a fine not exceeding Rupees Two Hundred Thousand or to an imprisonment not exceeding
Twelve months (12) or for a punishment of both descriptions.
24. Any person without been registered under subsection 10(1) of this Statute Displaying Designations
Such As Indigenous Medical Attendant, Indigenous Medical Measurer in English or in any other
language with individual letters or words.
(1) Using any connotations, designations additions or descriptions as to imply that he/she is a
registered Indigenous Medical Pharmacist Registered Indigenous Medical Attendant,
Registered Indigenous Medical Measurer etc. or
(2) Using any name designation addition or description to imply that he/she is a Registered
Indigenous Medical Pharmacist, Registered Indigenous Medical Attendants,and Registered
Indigenous Medical Measurer or using other words or letters to imply the same.
(3)  Bogusly practicing in the professions of Indigenous Medical Pharmacist, Indigenous Medical
Attendant Indigenous Medical “Panchakarma” Therapist Indigenous Medical Measurer or
engaging in medical consultation,
Any person who behaves as any of the above positions does thereby commit an offence and if
found guilty at a summery trial before a Magistrate is liable for a fine not exceeding Rupees Two
Hundred Thousand or to an imprisonment not exceeding six months (06) or to a punishment of
both descriptions.
25. Any person who violates the provisions specified in sub section 19(1) of this Statute thereby
commits an offence and if found guilty at a summery trial before a Magistrate is liable for a fine not
exceeding Rupees Two Hundred Thousand or for an imprisonment not exceeding Six months (06) or
for a punishment of both descriptions.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -20.11.2013
8A
Part V
PROVINCIAL  INDIGENOUS  MEDICAL  ADVISORY  COUNCIL
26. The minister, for the purpose of planning and implementation of provincial Indigenous Medical
Services shall appoint an Advisory Council.
27. (1) The Provincial Indigenous Medical Service Advisory council, (here in after referred to as
“Advisory Council”) shall consist of following members.
(a) The Secretary ;
(b) The Commissioner ;
(c) The Provincial Director of Health or his representative ;
(d) 3 qualified indigenous medical professionals/ practitioners  outside the public service,
each to represent each of Colombo, Gampaha and Kalutara districts ;
(e) A learned professional to represent the field of Indigenous medicine and the general
public.
(2) The Secretary to subject ministry shall be the ex-officer Chairman, while the “Commissioner”
shall be the ex-officer Secretary of Advisory Council.
(3) The members appointed for the positions of (a),(b) and (c) of sub section 27(1) above, will be
appointed on the virtue of their offices.
(4) ( a)  the tenure of office of the Advisory Council will be three (03) years.
(b)  Every Advisory Council member holds his office for a period of 03 years unless and otherwise
his/her memberships was terminated owing to reasons such as resignation, death, or termination
of office by the Minister or any other reason and those members whose membership has been
terminated are eligible for re appointment.
(c) At instances where a membership falls vacant owing to the resignation or death of a member or
termination of office by the Minister or to some other reason the Minister shall appoint another
suitable person to fill the vacancy valid until the end of the tenure of that Council.
(5)  The membership of any member appointed to the advisory council under sub section 27(1)
para (d) and (e) can be terminated at any time by the subject minister.
(6) A member of the Advisory appointed under sub section 7(1) para (d) and (e) can resign from his
post any time by submission of a letter of resignation added to the Subject Minister.
(7) The advisory council shall meet at least once in three months (03).
(8) The quorum of the Advisory council meeting shall be four members (04).
28. The role of the Advisory Council is to submit their observations recommendations and advices to
the subject minister on the matters referred to the council and to submit from time to time their
recommendations and/or suggestions for promotion of services rendered by provincial Indigenous
Medical Department and to for development of health conditions in the province.
Provincial
Indigenous
Medical service
Advisory
Council .
The role of the
Advisory
Council.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.11.2013
\Part VI
HOSPITALS  DEVELOPMENT  COMMITTEES
29. (1) The Secretary can appoint Hospital Development Committees (here in after referred to
as”committees”) in respect of Indigenous hospitals,Indigenous central dispensaries, and other
indigenous medical institutions.
(2) The composition of a hospital development committees appointed in terms of sub section
29(1) above shall be as follows.
(a) The divisional secretary of the relevant division or his representative ;
(b) The medical officer in charge of the institution ;
(c) Members to represent voluntary organizations operating in the area where the relevant
institution is located ;
(d) Registered Indigenous Medical Practitioners of the area ;
(e) Representatives representing Clergy ;
(f) Representatives of hospitals staff ;
(g) Other persons who are able to provide an active contribution to the development of the
institution.
(3) The representatives  mentioned above in paragraphs c, d, e, f, g shall be appointed with the
consent of the Minister in charge of the subject and the number of representatives to be
appointed thus as per each paragraph shall be decided by way of rules by the Minister
according to the categorization of the institution.
(4) A person named by the Minister from among the Committee members recommended by the
Hospital Committee shall become the Chairman of this committee and the Medical Officer in
charge of the institution shall ex-officio become the Secretary of this Committee.
(5) (a) The tenure of the committee shall be 02 years
(b) If the membership of any committee member appoint under para (c) (d) (e)(g) in sub section
29(2) above, terminates before the completion of tenure of office due to any reason, a
successor can be appointed to fill that vacancy with the concurrence of the subject minister
in such instances, the so appointed member will hold his office for the remaining period in
the tenure of office of his predecessor ;
(c) the subject minister can terminate the membership of any appointed committee member at
any time and a member in turn can resign at any time of his own ;
(d) The quorum of the hospital committee meeting shall be 07 members.
30. The functions of the hospital committees established under section 29 of this Statute shall be as
follows.
(1) Coordination between the relevant institution and public ;
(2) Institutional development performances and welfare activities ;
(3) Contribution for provision of qualitative services to its clientele by the institution.
The
establishment of
Hospitals
Development
Committees and
their
composition.
The functions of
the hospital
development
committees.

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -20.11.2013
10A
31. (1) The Hospital Committee shall meet once a month and the copies of the proceedings of its
meetings shall be presented to the Secretary and to the Commissioner.
(2) A member of a Hospital Committee or his/her spouse or his/her family member shall not enter
in to contracts or engage in supplies or bear any other obligation with the relevant hospital.
(3) In the accomplishment of one’s duty, hospital development committee members, based on
their committee membership, shall not exercise unnecessary influences with regard to hospital
activities.
Part VII
GENERAL  PROVISIONS
32. (1) The subject minister shall provide legislation over following matters.
(a) Legislative provisions applicable for registration of Indigenous Medical Institution in Western
Province ;
(b) The registration fees for Indigenous Medical Institution to be located in Western Province;
(c) The procedure to be adapted in registration of a person as an Indigenous Medical employee
in Western Province ;
(d) The prescription of qualification for registration as an Indigenous Medical Employee ;
(e) The documents and forms to be used in Western Province for registration of Indigenous
Medical Institutions and other documents necessary for indication ;
(f) The documents and forms to be used in Western Province for registration of Indigenous ;
(g) The registration of a person as an Indigenous Medical Employee and the period of validation
of such registration ;
(h) Instances of registration or cancellation of registration of Indigenous Medical Institution in
Western Province and rejection of renewal of such registration ;
(i) Instances of registration or cancellation of rejection of Indigenous Medical Employee in
Western Province and rejection of renewal of such registration ;
(j) Establishing Hospital Development Committees and deciding the composition;
(h) Any other matter relating to implementation of the provisions coming under this Statute;
(2) Every legislation enacted under sub section 32(1) above shall be published in the Government
Gazette, and they come to operation either of the date of Gazette notification or on a date
thereafter as specified in the notification.
(3)  Every legislation enacted under sub section 32(1) and published in the Government Gazette
should be directed to the Provincial Council for its approval.
(4) Any rule that is not so approved should be considered as invalid from the date of that
annulment, but there should not be any prejudice for anything that has been done earlier
under it.
(5) The date of any rule that is considered as made invalid should be published in the Gazette.
Provisions of
legislation by the
minister.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.11.2013
33. The implementation of the work, duties and authorities of this Statute should be carried out by
the Commissioner under the direction and supervision of the Secretary to the Ministry.
34. At any controversy about the meaning of Sinhala, Tamil and English versions of this Statute
the Sinhala version will prevail.
35. Unless a deviation is arrived at the meanings of the words and phrases given below shall be as
follows for the purpose of this Statute,
“The Province” means the Western Province of Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka ;
“The Provincial council” means the Western Provincial Council ;
“The Governor” means the governor of western province ;
“The Subject Minister” means the Provincial Minister in charge of the Indigenous Medicine
in theWestern Provincial Council ;
“The Secretary” means the Secretary to the Ministry of Western Provincial Council to
which the subject of Indigenous Medicine belongs ;
“The Commissioner” means the commissioner of indigenous medicine appointed to
Department of Indigenous Medicine in Western Provincial Council ;
“A Person” means any person Indigenous Medicine Institution or Company.
12 - 102
Direction of the
Secretary.
In case of a
controversy the
Sinhala version
prevails.
Definitions.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.