

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of January 01, 2016
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 04. 01. 2016)
S. B. NAWINNA FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the S. B. Nawinna Foundation
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Buddhika Pathirana, M. P. for
Matara District
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
(Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

1S. B. Nawinna Foundation
(Incorporation)
2—PL 009703—  225 (01/2016)
Preamble.
Short title.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE S. B. NAWINNA FOUNDATION
WHEREAS An Association called and known as
“S. B. Nawinna Foundation” has heretofore been formed in
the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting all
objects and matters connected with the said Foundation
according to the rules  agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the S. B. Nawinna
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.   of 2016.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the “S. B.
Nawinna Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted members of the
Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual
succession under the name and style of “S. B. Nawinna
Foundation” and by that name may sue and be sued in all
courts, with full power and authority to have and use a
Common Seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to give assistance, prizes and scholarships to needy
school children to enable them to continue their
education, encourage them to attend school
regularly, assist them in their educational, cultural
and scientific activities and to establish permanent
and mobile libraries ;
Incorporation
of the S. B.
Nawinna
Foundation.
30

<!-- page 3 -->

2 S. B. Nawinna Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(b) to organize seminars, workshops, lectures,
exhibitions, competitive tests and educational tours
with a view to promoting the educational activities
of school children and to hold competitions and
training camps in order to improve their sports skills
and artistic skills and to take steps including the
award of prizes and certificates and giving
assistance for local or foreign tours to talented
children ;
(c) to offer prizes and organize workshops and seminars,
and provide loan schemes and other assistance to
school principals and teachers in order to appreciate
and encourage their services and to improve their
professional knowledge ;
(d) to take necessary steps to promote artistic creations,
sports skills and technical knowledge of school
leavers and to set up vocational training centers as
well as give them assistance to persue studies in
computer science and technology and to establish
institutions to provide such studies ;
(e) to assist by granting scholarships to students
selected to Universities and Technical Colleges and
to establish self-employment opportunities for
unemployed citizens and to provide loans and to
inaugurate various savings schemes ;
(f) to inaugurate and maintain pre-schools for early
childhood development of the poor children,
inaugurate and maintain classes in various
languages and various subjects for elders, school
children, school leavers and provide them with
other facilities ;
(g) to provide lands and houses to families who do
not own lands and houses, inaugurate water     supply
schemes in areas where  there is a shortage of water,

<!-- page 4 -->

3S. B. Nawinna Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
take steps to prevent and minimize natural disasters
such as floods, provide buildings to schools with
less facilities and to cater to other needs of such
schools and provide infrastructure facilities such
as roads, electricity and health in various areas ;
(h) to assist in the development of educational,
religious, cultural, aesthetic and sports facilities
without any reference to race, religion or caste
and to conduct various festivals and competitions ;
(i) to provide medical relief and food for the poor,
destitute and sick persons, establish and maintain
houses for displaced persons and elders and
establish and maintain Children’s homes and day
care centres for children and elders ;
(j) to promote, arrange and organize exhibitions,
lectures, seminars, discussions, workshops, debates,
panel discussions tours, pleasure trips or such other
activities with a view to accomplishing the
objectives of the Corporation and to print, publish
and distribute such books, journals, bulletins and
newspapers as are necessary to achieve these
objects ;
(k) to provide facilities for the blind, deaf and dumb
by the establishment and maintenance of transit
houses ;
(l) to promote peace, goodwill, understanding and
cooperation among all communities and people of
Sri Lanka ; and
(m) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreign
institutions which have similar objects.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation be administered by a Board of
30
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 S. B. Nawinna Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
Directors consisting of Chairman and a Secretary, Treasurer
and another eleven members elected in accordance with
such rules.
(2) The founder member of the Foundation, Honourable
Minister S. B. Nawinna shall be the Chairman of the Board
of Directors for life and thereafter, the Family member of the
person who was holding office as the Chairman shall become
the next Chairman of the Board of Directors.
(3) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Administration of the
Foundation holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act.
(4) A member of the Board of Directors other than the
Chairman shall unless he vacates his office earlier by death
or  resignation, hold office for a period of four years. Where
due to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Board of
Directors a new member shall be appointed to fill such
vacancy and such a new member shall hold office for a period
of four years.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things what
so ever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion or
furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them, including the power to acquire and hold property
movable or immovable, to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise moneys with or without security,
to receive or collect grants or donations, to invest its  funds,
to erect any building or structures on any land held by the
Corporation and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and
servants required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any General Meeting of the members and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
General
Powers of
the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
35

<!-- page 6 -->

5S. B. Nawinna Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
Debts due by
and payable
to the Centre.
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this  Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters :—
(a) classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable ;
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Board of Directors, the quroum for such meetings
and the exercise and performance of their powers
and duties ;
(c) the appointment, powers, duties and functions of
the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation ;
(d) qualifications required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the Board of Directors ; and
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation .
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject
to the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 S. B. Nawinna Foundation
(Incorporation)
Fund of the
Corporation.
Audit and
accounts of
the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or
grants for and on account of the Corporation shall be
deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or more
banks as the Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable and immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and
all such property shall be held by the Corporation for the
purposes of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation, with full power to sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. No member of the Corporation shall for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable  to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of such membership fees as may be
due from him to the Corporation.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or institutions
having objects similar to those of the Corporation and which,
is or are by its or their rules prohibited from distributing any
income or property among their members.
12. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper accounts to be kept of all moneys received and
expended by the Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Limitation of
liabilities of
members.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 8 -->

7S. B. Nawinna Foundation
(Incorporation)
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
5
10
15
(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by an auditor or
auditors  appointed by the Board of Directors.
13. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such
number of persons as may be provided for in the rules in
force for the time being of the Corporation,  who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence and
such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic,  or
corporate or of any other persons except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those  claiming by, from or under
them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Seal of the
Corporation.
20

<!-- page 9 -->

8 S. B. Nawinna Foundation
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .