

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2011
2079
2079
wxl 1"738 - 2011 foieïn¾ 23 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'12'23
No. 1,738 – FRIDAY , DECEMBER 23, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2082
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2086
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 30th December, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 16th
December, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Parts I:III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,737 of 16.12.2011 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2011
2080
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2011
2081
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2011
2082
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
GAMPAHA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 17th January, 2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3,
Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
22nd November, 2011.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Gampaha Attanagalla Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  of Siyane Korale East and Births and   General, District Secretariat Gampaha
Deaths of Megodapotha Division
12–805
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
MULLAITIVU   DISTRICT
THE application for the "Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of
Katsilaimadu Division and Marriages (General) (Tamil) of Katukulan
Manthai East Division" which was the notice published in the
Gazette No. 1,734 dated 25.11.2011 of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka is hereby changed as for the "Post of Registrar
of Births and Deaths of Katsilaimadu Division and Marriages
(General) (Tamil) of Oddusuddan Division".
02. The  closing date of receiving applications only for this
changed post will be 31.01.2011.
03. All other details relevant to the above post published in the
Gazette notification No. 1,734 dated 25.11.2011 remain unchanged.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
05th December, 2011.
12–809

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2011
2083
URBAN  SETTLEMENTS  DEVELOPMENT  AUTHORITY
V ACANCIES
APPLICA TIONS are called from Sri Lankan citizens for the
following posts in the Urban Settlements Development Authority,
situated on 3rd Floor, "Sethsiripaya", Battaramulla.
Applications prepared according to the specimen application
form given below may be addressed to The Director General, Urban
Settlements Development Authority, 3rd Floor, "Sethsiripaya",
Battaramulla. On the top left hand corner of the envelope in which
applications are sent should be written the name of the post applied
for and the letters should be sent under registered cover to be
recieved by the said address on or before 20.01.2012. Action will
not be taken with regard to applications received late and application
forms will not be issued by the Urban Settlements Development
Authority.
Nature of appointment :
1. Permanent/with entitlement for EPF and ETF.
2. Apart from the basic salary applicable to each post, other
allowances approved by the government and the Cost of
Living allowance will be paid.
3. General qualifications for recruitment :
Every candidate should be :
(a) A Sri Lankan citizen ;
(b) Physically and mentally capable of performing the
tasks assigned to the post satisfactorily and should
be of sound physical and mental status required for
work in any part of the Island.
(c) Of an excellent moral character.
3.1 Post – Management Service
category (MM 1–1).
Salary Scheme – MM1-1-2006- Rs. 25,640 -
3 x 665 - 7 x 735 - 15 x 925 -
Rs. 46,655.
Age – Not less than 25 years and not
more than 45 years.
The maximum age limit will not
be applicable to those who are
already in the public service.
3.1.1 Assistant Director (Finance) and Assistant
Director (Procurement Payments)
 Qualifications :
(a) First Management Degree obtained from
a University recognized by the
University Grants Commission ; or
(b) Pass in the ICA/CUIMA/ACCA Final
Examination ; and
(c) Minimum of three years' experience in
accounting in a government or a private
sector institute recognized by
government, after obtaining the First
Degree/receiving membership of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants.
3.1.2 Assistant Director (Engineering)
Qualifications :
(a) First Civil Engineering Degree obtained
from a University recognized by the
University Grants Commission ; and
(b) Minimm of three (03) years' working
experience in a government or a private
sector institute recognized by
government, after obtaining the First
Degree/receiving membership of the
Association of Chartered Engineers.
3.1.3 Assistant Director (Architecture)
Qualifications :
(a) First Architecture Degree obtained from
a Universtiy recognized by the
University Grants Commission ; and
(b) Minimum of three (03) years' working
experience in a government or a private
sector institute recognized by
government, after obtaining the First
Degree/receiving membership of the
Association of Chartered Architects.
3.2 Post – Junior Management Service
Category (JM 1-1).
Salary Scheme – JM1-1-2006A- Rs. 20,525 -
10 x 365 - 18 x 550 -  Rs. 34,075.
Age – Not less than 25 years and not
more than 45 years.
The maximum age limit will not
be applicable to those who are
already in the public service.
3.2.1 Administrative Officer
Qualification :
(a) A First Degree in any subject obtained
from a University recognized by the
University Grants Commission ; and
(b) Minimum of one (01) year's management
level working experience in Human
Resource Management in a government
or a private sector institute recognized
by government.
3.2.2 Technical Officer
Qualifications :
(a) First B. Sc. Degree obtained from a
Univesity recognizd by the University

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2011
2084
Grants Commission with one of the
subjects of Civil Engineering/quantity
Surveying/Drafting ; and
(b) Minimum of one year's experience in
technical functions in a government or a
private sector institute recognized by
government.
3.3 Post – Enforcement/
Implementation/ Extension
Officer Category (MA 5-1)
Salary Scheme – MA5-1-2006A- Rs. 16,890 -
10 x 320 - 15 x 365 - 11 x 450 -
Rs. 30,515.
Age – Not less than 22 years and not
more than 35 years.
The maximum age limit will not
be applicable to those who are
already in the public service.
3.3.1 Planning Assistant
Qualifications :
(a) First Degree obtained from a University
recognized by the University Grants
Commission including one of the subjects
of Computer Science/Statistics/
Information Technology/Computing and
Management and Town and County
Planning.
3.3.2 Planning Assistant (Planning and
Information Management Systems)
Qualifications :
(a) First Degree obtained from a University
recognized by the University Grants
Commission including one of the subjects
of Computer Science/Statistics/
Information Technology/Computing and
Management and Town and County
Planning.
3.3.3 Planning Assistant (Research)
Qualifications :
(a) First Degree obtained from a University
recognized by the University Grants
Commission including one of the
subjects of Computer Science/Statistics/
Information Technology/Computing
and Management and Town and County
Planning.
3.3.4 Planning Assistant (Statistics)
Qualifications :
(a) First Degree obtained from a University
recognized by the University Grants
Commission including one of the subjects
of Computer Science/Statistics/
Information Technology/Computing and
Management and Town and County
Planning.
3.3.5 Planning Assistant (Systems Analyst)
Qualifications :
(a) First Degree obtained from a University
recognized by the University Grants
Commission including one of the subjects
of Computer Science/Statistics/
Information Technology/Computing and
Management and Town and County
Planning.
3.3.6 Data Processing Assistant
Qualifications :
(a) First Degree obtained from a University
recognized by the University Grants
Commission including one of the subjects
of Computer Science/Statistics/
Information Technology/Computing and
Management and Town and County
Planning.
3.4 Post – Associate Officers' Service
Category (MA 3)
Salary Scheme – MA3-2006A- Rs. 15,600 -
10 x 215 - 4 x 240 - 15 x 320 -
7 x 360 -  Rs. 26,030.
Age – Not less than 22 years and not
more than 35 years.
The maximum age limit will not
be applicable to those who are
already in the public service.
3.4.1 Community Development Assistant
Qualifications :
(a) First Degree in any field obtained from a
University recognized by the University
Grants Commission (preferably in the
subjects of Sociology and Agriculture).
Other qualifications :
(b) Full time two-year Diploma Course in
V ocational Social Work or a Diploma in

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2011
2085
Agriculture/Social Sciences obtained
from an institute recognized by
government.
3.5 Post – Management Assistant
(Technical) Service
Category (MA 2-1)
Salary Scheme – MA2.1-2006A- Rs. 14,610 -
10 x 145 - 7 x 170 - 4 x 240 -
20 x 320 -  Rs. 24,610.
Age – Not less than 18 years and not
more than 35 years.
The maximum age limit will not
be applicable to those who are
already in the public service.
3.5.1 Programme Writer
Qualifications :
(a) A pass in the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination
in six (06) subjects with credit passes in
subjects including Sinhala/Tamil
Language, Mathematics and English and
in another subject, in not more than two
sittings ; and
(b) Should have reached the performance
level required for the study of a tertiary
educational course having obtained
passes in all subjects in the Science/
Maths streams in the G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination (except the General
Examination) ; and
(c) Diploma in Information Technology
obtained from a government or
government recognized institute at a level
not lower than Level 5 of National
V ocational Qualification (NVQ) as
required by the Tertiary Education
Commission.
3.6 Post – Management Assistant (Non
Technical) Service Category
(MA 1-1)
Salary Scheme – MA1.1-2006A- Rs. 13,450 -
10 x 145 - 7 x 170 - 4 x 240 -20x
320 - Rs. 23,450.
Age – Not less than 25 years and not
more than 45 years.
The maximum age limit will not
be applicable to those who are
already in the public service.
3.6.1 Management Assistant (Non-technical)
Qualifications :
(a) A pass in the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination
in six (06) subjects with credit passes in
subjects inclduing Sinhala/Tamil
Language, Mathematics and English and
in one more subject in not more than
two sittings ; and
(b) A pass in three subjects in the G . C. E.
(A/L) Examination (except the General
Examination).
Apart from the above, the possession of
a certificate in Secretariat Practice and/
or a Diploma Certificate in Computer
and the ability to work in Sinhala and
English languages will be considered as a
special qualification.
4. Candidates are required to attach copies of the following
certificates to the application form (not the originals) :
(a) Certificate of birth ;
(b) Two character certificates obtained recently (non-related) ;
(c) Certificates to support educational qualifications ;
(d) Certificates of service (only if available) ;
(e) A photocopy of the NIC.
5. (a) Candidates who are already in the government service
should forward their applications through their respective
Heads of Department. A certificate to the effect that the
candidate can be released in the event of bring selected
should be attached.
(b) Application forms completed by the candidates in their
own hand writing on papers 11" x 8" in size should be
sent to the address given in para 2 above under registered
cover along with copies of relevant certificates.
6. Application forms which are not prepared according to all the
requirements as stipulated in this notice in their entirety will be
rejected. No acknowledgement will be sent to such candidates in
such cases.
Note .– No travelling or other allowances will be paid to
candidates who attend the examinations or interviews.
Dr. S
UMITH WANNIARACHCHI,
Director General,
Urban Settelements Development Authority.
3rd Floor, "Sethsiripaya",
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2011
2086
Specimen Application Form
URBAN SETTLEMENTS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
POST APPLIED FOR ..............................
01. 1.1 Name of candidates with initials :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
2.0 NIC No. :–––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
3.2 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
4.0 Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
E-mail address (If available) :–––––––––––.
5.0 Whether it is by birth or registration that you are a Sri Lankan
citizen ? :–––––––––––.
6.0 Whether married or single :–––––––––––.
7.0 Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––– Month :–––––––––– Date :––––––––––.
8.0 Age as at the closing date of application :
Years :––––––––– Months :––––––––– Days :–––––––––.
9.0 Educational qualifications :–––––––––––.
10.0 Additional Educational/V ocational qualifications :–––––––.
11.0 Related additional experience :–––––––––––.
12.0 Have you ever been convicted by any court ? (Yes/No). If
yes, give details :–––––––––––.
13.0 Candidate’s certificate :
I hereby state that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and
that all sections therein have been completed accurately.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF DEPARTMENT
(Only for those who are in Public Service)
I do certify hereby that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................ who
forwards this application has been in service in this office/institute
in a permanent/temporary/casual post as a ................. (designation)
since ....................... and that his/her service is satisfactory and in
the event of being selected for an appointment on the results of this
interview, he/she will be/will not be released from the post held by
him/her at present and that the particulars furnished above are true
and correct.
––––––––––,
Signature and official seal of the
Head of Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name of certifying officer :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
12–779
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  SPORTS
National Institute of Sports Science
Diploma Course in Sports Science 2011/2012
APPLICATIONS are invited from suitably qualified candidates to
follow the Diploma Course in Sports Science conducted in Sinhala
medium by the National Institute of Sports Science of the Ministry
of Sports. The applicants should be between 18-35 years of age.
(The upper age limit for those who are in Government Service
should not exceed 45 years).
01. Educational and other qualifications :
1.1 Should have passed G. C. E. Ordinary Level Examination
in Six (6) subjects with three (03) Credits in not more
than two sittings and two of the six subjects should be
Sinhala or Tamil Language and Arithmetic or Mathematics.
1.2 In addition to the above, the applicants should have
obtained –
(a) First, Second or Third place in National Sports Festival
or First or Second place in an individual event/First
place in a team event of a District Level Competition
of the same Sports Festival conducted by the
Ministry ; or
(b) First, Second or Third place in an individual event/
First or Second place in a team event conducted by a
National Sports Association ; or
(c) First place in an individual event or a championship in
a team event of over Sixteen years of age in a National
School Competition ; or
(d) Should have participated in South Asian games, Asian
games, Asian Championship competitions,
Commonwealth Games, World Championship games
or Olympic Games as a member of a National Sports
Team ; or
(e) Should have served as Sports Officer in the Ministry
of Sports or in an institution under the Ministry or
Sports Officer in any Provincial Council or as a teacher
in sports under the Ministry of Education (It is
mandatory to fulfill the requirements relating to Note
01) ; or

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2011
2087
(f) Should be a Teacher, Instructor/tress in sports or
Physical Education (even as a V olunteer) in an
institution recognized by the Government or a Sports
Officer attached to the National Youth Council with
five (05) years of service and should possess a graded
coaching phase license obtained from a National Sports
Association ; or
(g) Should have successfully completed a preliminary and
a higher level course in sports of not less than Six (06)
months duration as an instructor/tress in a training
institute or school of the Police, Armed Forces or
Civil Defence Service.
N. B.– Note :
01. Those who are serving under the Ministry of Sports
and Ministry of Education should have completed
one year and five years of service respectively.
(Physical education teachers who have received
training at College of Education should possess two
year experience).
02. Applications which do not conform to the specimen
form will be rejected.
02. Preparation of Application :
2.1 Candidates possessing the necessary qualifications
mentioned above should submit their applications in a
paper of 8" x 13 1/2" in size as per specimen application
form appearing at the end of this notice. Applications
should be completed in applicant’s own handwriting and
sent by Registered Post to reach the Director, National
Institute of Sports Science, No. 100/7, Independence
Avenue, Colombo 07 on or before 23.01.2012.
2.2 “Application for the Course of Diploma in Sports 2011/
2012” should be written at the top left corner of the
envelope containing the application.
2.3 Applicants from the Government Service Provincial
Government Service, corporations should channel their
applications through the heads of their respective
Departments/Institutions. The applications which do not
conform to this requirement will be rejected.
2.4 The receipt obtained after paying Rs. 500 being
examination fees to the credit of “National Sports Fund”,
Account No. 2323282, Bank of Ceylon, Torrington
Branch should be sent affixed to the application.
03. Selection of Candidates. – Out of the applications received
all candidates who have fulfilled rquired qualification will be called
for a written examination. The candidates who are successful at the
examination will be called for an interview and a physical fitness
practical examination. Those who are successful will be selected to
follow the course.
04. Details of the course :
4.1 Syllabus contains five sections as follows :
(a) General Theory of Training (Study of Physical
Qualities, Skill Development Techniques and
Strategies, Training Methods, Aspects of Planning,
Principles of Training Load and Tests) and a viva
voce examination.
(b) Theory and practice of at least ten major sports.
(c) Specialization in Track and Field Athletics.
(d) Within the duration of the Diploma course,
specialization is required in football, volleyball,
netball or basketball for male and female candidates
depending on the situation in addition to Track
and Field athletics.
(e) Study of general subjects such as Sports
Physiology Sociology, Sports Administration,
Sports Statistics, Organizing Methods of Sports
Festivals, Sports Medicine, Sports Biochemistry,
Sports Nutrition and Sports Psychology.
4.2 The duration of the course is 12 months.
4.3 Of the candidates selected to follow the course the
unemployed should pay Rs. 15,000 and those who are
employed in Government Ministries, Departments,
Corporations and Provincial Councils should pay
Rs. 30,000 as course fee personally or through their
institutions. The receipt obtained after paying the
relevant course fee to the credit of “National Sports
Fund”, Account No. 2323282, Bank of Ceylon,
Torrington Branch should be submitted to the office.
4.4 The selected candidates are bound by the rules and
regulations of the National Institute of Sports Science.
4.5 Certificate in “Diploma in Sports Science” will be
awarded to those who complete the course successfully.
05. Other conditions :
5.1 The Ministry does not hold responsibility to provide
employment to those who complete the course.
5.2 However if the Ministry requires, those who are
following this Course should enter into an agreement
with the Director of the National Institute of Sports
Science, they should do so accordingly.
5.3 Highest qualification or required qualifications should
be stated in the application and any data sent later will
not be accepted.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2011
2088
5.4 Any matter not specified in this notice will be decided
at the discretion of the Director of the National Institute
of Sports Science.
M. M. W IJAY ASENA,
Director,
National Institute of Sports Science.
No. 100/7, Independence Avenue,
Colombo 07,
23rd December, 2011.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
N
ATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SPORTS SCIENCE
DIPLOMA IN SPORTS SCIENCE – 2011/2012
1. (i) Full name : Mr./Mrs./Miss. :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Name with initials :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Full name (In English block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
(iv) National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––––.
2. Address :
(i) Private :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Official :–––––––––––––.
Telephone Official :–––––––––––, Private :–––––––––––.
3. Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––– Month :–––––––––– Day :––––––––––.
Age on 23.01.2012 :
Years :–––––––––– Months :–––––––––– Days :––––––––––.
4. State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :–––––––––––––.
(by descent or by registration) :–––––––––––––.
5. (i) Sex :–––––––––––––.
(ii) M arital status :–––––––––––––.
6. Whether you are employed or not :–––––––––––––.
(i) Service station :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Present post :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Duration of the service :–––––––––––––.
7. Educational qualifications :
Year Name of Examination Subjects Grade
8. Achievements in sports (Certificates obtained and special
achievements) :–––––––––––––.
9. (i) According to the gazette notification, under which
qualification category (1.2: a, b, c, d, e, f, g) that you are
eligible to apply for the course :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Give details of qualifications relevant to the category
stated above :–––––––––––––.
10. Any other special remarks :–––––––––––––.
11. Whether you are prepared to pay a course fee of Rs. 15,000 or
Rs. 30,000 if selected :–––––––––––––.
I certify that the particulars given above are true and correct. I
am aware that if the information given by me is found to be false or
incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified and removed from the course.
–––––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :–––––––––––––.
For Government/Local Government/Corporation Employees
only :
Director,
National Institute of Sports Science,
I recommend herewith the application of Mr./Mrs./Miss.
....................... employee of ...................... working as ................. I
certify that this applicant if selected could be released for the period
of the course.
–––––––––––––,
Signature.
Name and Designation of the certifying officer.
Official rubber stamp :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
12–782
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.