

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2319$40 - 2023 fmnrjdß ui 14 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2023'02'14
No. 2319/40  -  Tuesday,   february  14,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6221 - 4506 (02/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
 L.d.b 11/80 (30).
FOOD ACT, No. 26 OF 1980
reGuLaTIONs made by the Minister of Health in consultation with the food advisory Committee under section 32 of the 
food act, No. 26 of 1980.
 Keheliya RambuKwella,
 Minister of Health.
Colombo,
17th  January, 2023.
Regulations
1.    These regulations may be cited as food (Labelling and advertising) regulations 2022 and shall come into operation 
on 01st of January 2024.
2.    a  person shall not import, transport, distribute, store, sell, offer for sale, expose or keep for sale or advertise for sale, 
any food contained in a package or container, unless such package or container is labelled in accordance with these 
regulations:
  Provided, that these regulations shall not apply to any packs for retail sale, if the food is of the nature, quality, quantity, 
origin or brand requested by the purchaser and is weighed, counted or measured in the presence of the purchaser.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
2a
3.  (1)  The package or container shall bear a label upon which a declaration in respect of the food contained in such a 
package or container shall be clearly and conspicuously displayed.
	 (2)	 The	 label	shall	be	affixed	on	the	package	or	container	of	the	food	indelibly	printed	or	painted	or	securely	affixed	by	
the manufacturer, packer or distributor.
 (3) a  person shall not deface, distort, erase or obliterate the original date of manufacture, date of packing or date of 
expiry printed, painted or displayed by the manufacturer or packer.
	 (4)	 Where	 a	label	in	any	one	of	the	three	languages	has	been	affixed	on	an	imported	package	or	container	of	food	and	a	
supplementary label conforming to the regulations shall appear conspicuously and prominently in bold type in the 
other	two	languages,	indelibly	printed	or	painted	or	securely	affixed	on	such package	or	container	shall	be	sufficient	
to satisfy the requirements of these regulations:
Provided	however,	where	such	supplementary	label	affixed	for		the	purpose	of	complying	with	the	provisions	
under regulation  3(4) of these regulations, if the supplementary  label contains information in respect of  date 
of manufacture, date of packing or date of expiry and  other mandatory information,  such supplementary label 
shall	be	affixed	securely	in	a	manner	that	it	does	not	distort,	deface	or	obliterate	the	original	date	of	manufacture,	
date of packing, date of expiry and other information required to be declared by the manufacturer or packer:
Provided however that imported products which are transported to or kept in warehouses authorized by Customs 
for purposes of compliance to these regulations before Customs clearance, is exempted from requirements 
under regulation 2.
4. (1) The following declarations shall be made indelibly and legibly on the main panel- 
(a) common name of the product in bold type in all three languages;
 Provided that the common name may be substituted by any other name as set out in schedule I hereto;
(b) trade name and brand name (if any), in any one or more of the three languages in a manner that shall not be 
deceptive or mislead any person;
 However, for the purpose of these regulations, a brand name or a trade name shall be considered deceptive or 
misleading to a consumer, where it implies directly or indirectly -
(i) a common name used to identify another food product or category;
(ii) a physiological, biochemical or psychological function (of food);
(iii) a health effect or an outcome
(c)  the net contents of the package or container expressed in sI units or by the international symbols ‘g’ or ‘kg’ in 
the case of solids, ‘ml’ or ‘l’ in the case of liquids and, if packaged in liquid medium, the net drained weight 
expressed as ‘g’ or ‘kg’:
(2) (a) The following declarations shall be made indelibly and legibly on any panel in any one or more of the three  
 languages –
(i)  a complete list of ingredients used in the food by their common names in descending order of ingoing 
weight (m/m) at the time of manufacture of the food including any permitted food additive by its common 
name and INs number as prescribed by regulations made under the act. 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
3a
However, processing aids that are not carried over to foods are exempted from declaration in the list of ingredients; 
(ii)  (a) the name and address of the manufacturer and distributer, and in the case of 
  imported food products, in addition the name and address of the importer;
 (b) the name and address of the packer, if any;
(iii)  the batch number or code number or a decipherable code marking;
(iv)  the date of manufacture;
(v) the date of expiry;
(vi) in case where foods are imported in bulk and repacked, the date of manufacture and the date of repacking;
(vii) the country of origin in case of imported foods; 
(viii) nutrition labelling in letters of font size not less than 1.5 millimetres;
(ix) any other declarations stipulated under these regulations.
(b)			 consumer	warnings,	if	any,	specified	in	any	regulations	under	the	Act	in	all	three	languages	in	letters	of	font	size	
not less than1.5 millimetres;
(c) the date of expiry shall be on any panel in any two of the sinhala, Tamil and english languages:  
Provided that in the case of bottled food products, the date of expiry, batch number and date of manufacture 
may be stamped indelibly and legibly on the bottle neck using a letter size not less than 1.5 millimetres. In the 
case of metal cans containing food, the date of expiry, batch number and date of manufacture shall be displayed 
indelibly and legibly on the lid of the can either at the top or bottom of the can:
Provided further that the date of expiry may not be required for sugar, tea, cereals and pulses in wholesale packs, 
fresh vegetables, fruits, roots and tubers and bread other than sliced bread.
(d) Instructions for storage and use, if any, in a minimum of two of the three languages; Where the surface area of 
the pack is small, exceptions for the use of two languages can be given by the Chief food authority on a case 
by case basis. 
(3)  The provisions of this regulation shall not apply to prepackaged food products, the weight of which does not 
exceed 25 grams or the volume does not exceed 30 milliliters, provided the dispenser package or container from 
which they are customarily sold to the buyer is available at the point of sale and is labelled according to this 
regulation.
(4)  a person shall not sell, offer for sale, expose or keep for sale, transport for sale any food after the date of expiry 
thereof.
(5)  The date of packing shall be considered as the date of manufacture in respect of tea, spices, edible oils, edible 
salt, cereals, whole and split legumes and edible oilseeds:
 Provided that the packer ensures that the product is wholesome and safe for human consumption at the time of 
packaging.
(6)		 Nutrition	Labelling	shall	be	mandatory	as	specified	in	Schedule	IV	hereto.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
4a
5.  for the purpose of regulation 4: -
(a)  the size of the letters used for the common name shall be not less than one third of the size of the letters used 
for the trade or brand name, whichever is larger, with a minimum height of 3 millimeters.  If the common name 
consists of one word or more than one word such word or words (other than articles, conjunctions or prepositions) 
shall be in identical type and size and similarly displayed.
(b)		 the	height	of	the	letters	used	for	the	common	name	in	the	supplementary	label	as	specified	in	regulation	3	(4)	
shall not be less than one half of the height of the letters used for the common name on the main panel of that 
package or container subject to a minimum height of 3 millimeters.
(c)	 	the	letters,	numericals	and	symbols	on	the	label	should	be	readable	and	visible	to	the	naked	eye	and	identifiable	
in contrast to their background colour.
(d)  the letters used for the declarations of net contents, date of manufacture and date of expiry of regulation 4 shall 
be	in	bold	type	and	not	less	than	the	height	specified	in	Column	I	in	Schedule	II	hereto	in	respect	of	the	area	of	
the main panel of the label set out in the corresponding entry in Column II of schedule II.
 
(e)  the declarations, other than the declarations of regulations 4(1), 4(2) (a) (iv) and 4(2) (a) (v) shall be conspicuously 
printed in bold type letters of not less than 1.5 millimeters in height.
(f)  (i)     The date of expiry in respect of food contained in a package or a container shall be expressed in terms of –
(a) day, month and year; 
(b) year, month and day; or 
(C) month and year.
(ii)  where the year is expressed in four digits, the format may be either day, month and year or year, month 
and day.
(iii)  where the year is expressed in two digits, the format shall be day, month and year; or year month and day, 
provided the indications – dd/MM/yy  representing day, month and year or yy/MM/dd representing 
year, month and day as the case may be, shall be printed above or in close proximity to the digits.
(iv)  where only month and year are indicated as the date of expiry the format shall be month and year; or year 
and month, provided the indications – MM/yy representing month and year or yy/MM representing year 
and month as the case may be are printed above or in close proximity to the digits.
 (v)  where only the month and year are indicated as the date of expiry, the date of expiry of that product shall 
be deemed to be the last day of that month.
 (vi)  the date of expiry shall be declared in numerical form preceded by either the word (s) “expiry” or “use 
before” or “use by” or “best before”, or the abbreviation “exp” in english, together with “ld.b.È'” in 
sinhala or “fh.Njjp.” in Tamil.
(g) (i) the date of manufacture in respect of food contained in a package or a container shall be expressed in  
terms of (a) day, month and year;  or (b) year,  month and day.
(ii)  where the year is expressed in four digits, the format may be either day, month and year or year, month 
and day.
(iii)  where the year is expressed in two digits, the format shall be day, month and year; or year, month and day, 
provided the indications -   dd/MM/yy  representing day, month and year or yy/MM/dd representing 
year, month and day as the case may be, shall be printed above or in close proximity to the digits.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
5a
(iv)  the date of manufacture shall be declared in numerical form preceded by either the word or words “date of 
manufacture” or “Manufacture date” or “Manufactured on” or the abbreviation “Mfd” in english, together 
with “ks.È'” in sinhala or “c.Njjp.” in Tamil.
6.	 (1)		 	Any	edible	oil	(including	any	refined	oil)	shall	bear	clearly	and	conspicuously,	its	common	name	and	in	close		
 proximity, the source of origin in the same font, size and colour.
(2)  No label shall bear the word “butter” or any synonym thereof or any word implying the presence of butter –
(a) in the description of any sugar confectionery or chocolate products, unless the fat used in the manufacture 
of such confectionery or chocolate product contains not less than four per centum (4%) by weight, of butter 
fat;
(b)	 in	 the	description	of	any	flour	confectionery	unless	the	fat	used	in	the	manufacture	of	such	confectionery	
consists entirely of butter fat.
7. (1)  Prepackaged food shall not be described or presented on any label by words, pictorial or other devices which refer 
to or are suggestive either directly or indirectly, of any other product with which such food might be confused, or 
in such a manner as to mislead the purchaser or consumer to suppose that the food is connected with such other 
product. 
(2)  No fruit based beverages for direct consumption or reconstitution shall be described in any label or advertisement 
as an identical fruit based beverage, unless it contains an amount of fruit juice of such fruit in accordance with 
the	quantities	specified	in	the	Schedule	III	hereto.		Otherwise	it	shall	be	described	as	“artificial	syrup”	“artificial	
cordial”	or	“artificial	beverage”	as	the	case	may	be.
(3)  any bottle or receptacle of vinegar, except when produced by fermentation of a plant product, shall be labelled 
as	“artificial	vinegar”.
(4)		 Any	label	or	advertisement	relating	to	any	food	product	referred	to	as	“artificial”	in	paragraphs	(2)	and	(3)	of	this	
regulation shall –
(a)		 bear	thereon	clearly	and	conspicuously	the	word	“artificial”	in	close	proximity	to	the	name	of	the	product	
and the type, colour and size of the letters of such word shall be of the same type, colour and size of the 
letters used for the common name of the product;
(b)  not bear the word “fruit” in the description of such product or carry the pictorial representation of any fruit;
(c)  not carry any pictorial representation of any vinegar related plant or plant product.
8. (1)  Where confectioneries, chocolates or biscuits or any similar products, not based on fruits and in non fruit based 
natural	or	artificial	flavoured	drink	mixes,	jelly	crystals	and	pudding	mixes,	the	name	of	a	fruit	or	fruits	or	a	
pictorial representation of a fruit or fruits may be made on the label:
Provided	that	in	the	case	of	non	fruit	based	natural	or	artificial	flavoured	drink	mixes,	jelly	crystals	and	pudding	mixes,	
the	common	name	“X”	flavoured	drink	mix/	jelly	crystals/	pudding	mix	shall	be	used	on	the	main	panel	of	the	label,	
where “X” is the name or names of the fruits.
            
(2)		 Where	a	characterising	ingredient	or	characterising	component	of	a	food,	excluding	flavouring	substances,	is	
mentioned or associated with the name of a food or emphasised in the label in words, pictorials or graphics, its 
proportion shall be declared on the label as a percentage of the ingoing ingredients immediately following the 
common, descriptive or generic name of the ingredients or components e.g. “X”noodles, “X’’ is the characterising 
ingredient. 

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
6a
9.	 (1)		Where	 a	standard	is	specified	in	any	regulations	made	under	the	Food	Act	for	any	food,	only	such	ingredients	as	
may be named in such standards shall be used in such food.  any addition or admixture of any other   ingredients, 
whether with or without a label or declaration in respect of such ingredients, shall be prohibited.
(2)	 Where	 any	food	for	which	a	standard	is	not	specified	in	any	regulations	made	under	the	Food	Act	contains	an	
addition,	admixture	or	has	any	deficiency,	the	label	or	advertisement	relating	to	such	food	shall	contain	a	declaration	
of	such	addition,	admixture	or	deficiency	and	such	declaration	shall	clearly	state	the	name	and	percentage	of	the	
addition	or	admixture	or	the	deficient	ingredient	as	the	case	may	be.
(3)  (a) Where sweeteners are added to a food product, there shall be written on the label separately, in capital 
letters of bold type in a minimum font size of 1.5 mm, the statements:
(i) “CONTaINs sWeeTeNers “X” and substituting for the letter “X” the names of any permitted 
sweeteners used;
(ii) “NOT reCOMMeNded fOr CHILdreN uNder THree years Of aGe”. 
 
(b)  sweeteners can be used partly in place of sugar where there is at least 30 percent energy reduction compared 
to a similar or the original product of the manufacturer available in the market and a declaration of “eNerGy 
reduCed” in capital letters may be made on the label.
	(4)		 Where	flavour	enhancers	are	added	to	food	products,	there	shall	be	written	separately	on	the	label	in	capital	letters	
in a minimum font size of 1.5 mm, the statements:
	(a)	 “FLAVOUR	ENHANCER(S)	“X”	ADDED”	and	substituting	for	the	letter	“X”	the	names	and	INS	Numbers	
of	any	permitted	flavour	enhancers	added;	and
 (b) “NOT reCOMMeNded fOr CHILdreN uNder THree years Of aGe”.
(5)  If a food product of vegetable or plant origin contains any ingredient of animal origin, it shall be declared in letters 
in a minimum font size of 1.5 mm in bold type on the label conspicuously and legibly the name or names of such 
ingredients with a statement that they are of animal origin. dairy products are exempted from this requirement 
unless it contains ingredients of animal origin other than dairy.
           
10. (1)  The label of a food which has been treated with ionizing radiation shall carry a written statement indicating that 
treatment in close proximity to the common name of the food.  The international symbol given below shall be 
indicated in green, conspicuously in close proximity to the common name.
(2)   When irradiated products are used as ingredients in another food, such products shall be declared separately in 
the list of ingredients in the same manner as referred to in paragraph (1) of this regulation.
(3)   When a single ingredient product is prepared from a raw material which has been irradiated, the label of the  
 product shall contain a statement indicating such treatment.
11.   No label or advertisement relating to any food shall contain words indicating that it is recommended by a Medical 
Practitioner or association or any professional or any other words or device, pictorial or otherwise, which may imply 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
7a
or suggest that such food is recommended, prescribed or approved by any Medical Practitioner, association or any 
professional except on written approval granted by the Chief food authority.
12. (1)  No label or advertisement relating to any article of food shall contain a false claim or misleading description of 
such food in such a manner as to mislead the purchaser or consumer of such food.
(2)  No food shall be described or presented in a manner that is false, misleading or deceptive or is likely to create 
an erroneous impression regarding its character in any respect.
(3) for the purpose of this regulation “claim” means any representation which states, suggests or implies that a food 
has particular qualities relating to its origin, nutritional properties, nature, production, processing, composition 
or any other quality.
(4) any food for which a nutrition claim, a nutrient content claim, a nutrient comparative claim or a health claim is 
made	shall			be	in	accordance	with	Nutritional	Labelling	specified	in	Schedule	IV,	hereto.
(5) (a) The nutrient content claims and nutrient comparative claims permitted shall be relating to protein, dietary 
fibre,	vitamins	and	minerals	for	which	Nutrient	Reference	Values	(NRVs)	are	specified	in	Schedule	V	hereto.	
If	Nutrient	Reference	Value	(NRV)	for	the	nutrient	is	not	specified	in	Schedule	V,	prior	written	approval	
shall be obtained from the Chief food authority.
(b)  No label or advertisement relating to any food shall contain a nutrient content claim or nutrient comparative 
claim	unless	conditions	specified	in	Schedule	VI	and	VII	hereto	are	adhered	to.
(c)  Where applicable, the conditions for nutrient content claims and nutrient comparative claims shall be used 
to	determine	the	levels	for	“high”,	“low”,	“reduced”	and	“free”	according	to	Schedules	VI	and	VII	hereto.
(d)		 If	the	fortification	level	of	a	nutrient	exceeds	one	third	(1/3)	of	the	Nutrient	Reference	Value	(NRV),	prior	
written approval shall be obtained from the Chief food authority, before such products are marketed. 
(6) (a)  every health claim and Nutrient function Claim , shall have prior written approval by the Chief food 
authority before a claim can be made on the label or advertisement of the food.
(b)	 If	 the	claimed	benefit	is	attributed	to	a	constituent	in	the	food	for	which	a	Nutrient	Reference	Value	is	
established	as	set	out	in	Schedule	V,	the	food	in	question	shall	be–
(i) a “source” of or “high” of the constituent in the case where, increased consumption is recommended; 
or
(ii) “low”, “reduced”, or “free” of the constituent in the case where, reduced consumption is recommended.
(c)		 Only	those	nutrients	for	which	a	Nutrient	Reference	Value	(NRV)	has	been	established	in	Schedule	V	hereto	
shall be the subject of a nutrient function claim.
(d)  any claim shall not be made if it encourages or condones excessive consumption of any food or disparages 
good dietary practice.
(7)  No label relating to any article of food shall, in the description of such article of food bear the word “pure” or any 
other	word	implying	that	it	is	pure,	unless	such	article	is	of	the	character,	value,	composition	and	merit	specified	
under the regulations made under the food act, and contains no additives of any kind.
(8) No label shall in the description of any food, bear the word “natural” thereon unless – 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
8a
(a)  such food consists of unmixed, unadulterated or unprocessed products with no additives.  It may however 
be	subjected	to	pasteurization,	filteration,	chilling	or	freezing;	and	
 
(b)  such food is produced from biological material as distinct from synthetic material.
(9)  No label relating to any article of food shall in the description of such food, bear the word “substitute” or any 
other word implying that it is a substitute for such food, unless such food is permitted under any of the regulations 
made under the act, to be used in such description.
(10)	 (a)	 No	 label	or	advertisement	relating	to	any	food	shall	indicate	that	it	is	a	fortified	food	unless	such	food	
has been added with one or more essential nutrients, whether or not it was normally present in that food, 
provided	that	the	intended	purpose	for	such	addition	is	to	prevent	or	correct	a	demonstrated	deficiency	of	
one or more of such nutrients in the population.
(b)  The list of permitted vitamins, minerals, fatty acids, amino acids and nucleotides that may be added to 
foods	is	specified	in	Schedule	VIII	hereto.
(c)  No fruit product or vegetable product or sugar based product shall be described on any label, as to be 
“fortified	with	vitamin	C”	unless	such	product	contains	not	less	than	40	milligrams	of	ascorbic	acid	per	
100 grams of the product.
(d)		 (i)		 If	 the	nutrient	to	be	added	is	to	maintain	the	nutritional	profile	at	preprocessing	level,	after processing 
or	the	nutrient	added	to	the	food	does	not	exceed	one	third	(1/3)	of	the	Nutrient	Reference	Values	
(NRVs)	specified	in	Schedule	V,	the	permission			of	the	Chief	Food	Authority	is	not	required.
(ii)		 Notwithstanding	regulation	(d)	(i)	fortification	of	food	for	children	under	thirty	six	months,	the	
permission of the Chief food authority, is required.
(e)  The approval of the Chief food authority is	required	for	fortification	of	foods	with	any	other	fortificant	or	
ingredient	other	than	nutrients	specified	in	Schedule	VIII	hereto.
(f)  Where in a label or in an advertisement, a claim or statement made in respect of similar foods having the 
same characteristics, such label or advertisement shall be required to carry another claim or statement 
specified	in	the	language	required	and	in	the	same	fonts	and	in	close	proximity	to	the	original	statement	in	
specifying that all similar foods have the same characteristics.
e.g. if the label of a container containing a vegetable oil claims that the oil is free from cholesterol, 
another statement has to be made on the label in the same language and fonts and in close 
proximity to the original statement that vegetable oils do not contain cholesterol.
(11) (a) Where a statement or claim implying a special dietary use is made on the label or advertisement, relating 
to any food, such label shall bear a declaration stating the type of diet for which that food is recommended.
(b)  No label or advertisement relating to any food shall state directly or indirectly that such food is a source 
of energy;
Provided that a claim which states that a food is a source of energy, such food shall contain the energy value of 100 
kcals (425 kJ) or more per 100 g (or 100 ml) and in addition shall declare the following statements: -
(i) the energy value in kcals or kJ per 100g (or 100 ml) and, where appropriate, per serving quantity, 
and

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
9a
(ii) the amount of carbohydrate, protein and fat contained in each 100 g (or 100 ml) and, where appropriate, 
per serving quantity.
(12) (a)  No label or advertisement relating to any food shall state that dietary fats are a protection against heart 
diseases	or	of	benefit	to	persons	suffering	from	heart	disease.
(b)  No label or advertisement relating to any food shall indicate directly or indirectly that such food contains, 
restorative	or	medicinal	property	or	properties	which	make	it	beneficial	for	invalids	or	which	will	alleviate	
or prevent any illness unless prior approval has been obtained from the Chief food authority.
(c)  No label  or  advertisement relating to  any  food shall indicate directly or indirectly that  such food  is a 
cure  for  any illness.
(d)  No   label or advertisement relating to any food shall claim such food to be an aid for slimming, weight 
gain, weight control or weight reduction unless prior approval has been obtained from the Chief food 
authority.
 (e)  Other than the brand or trade name of the food product as permitted in this regulation, nutrients, bioactive 
components or ingredients in the food shall not be represented in the label or advertisements, singly or 
as a group as a trademark by word(s), symbol(s), logo or a pictorial other than by its common or generic 
name, unless permitted otherwise by the Chief food authority, or in accordance with any regulations.
 (13)  a person shall not label a food as “organic” unless due processes and practices have been observed in its preparation 
and	a	valid	certification	is	obtained	to	that	effect	from	an	accredited	agency	or	a	Competent	Authority.
13. (1)  a  person shall not advertise any advertisement containing any health claim or nutrient function claim relating 
to any food, without prior written approval of the Chief food authority. The reference number mentioned in the 
“Letter of approval” shall be displayed along with the advertisement.
(2)		 Any	person	who	intends	to	advertise	more	than	one	product	specified	in	regulation	13	(1)	shall	submit	separate	
applications in respect of each food. 
(3)  every applicant for advertising of any food shall furnish, along with his application to the Chief food authority, 
all	such	information	as	may	be	required	as	specified	in	Form	A	of	Schedule	IX	hereto,	and	any	further	information	
as may be requested, by the Chief food authority.
(4)  every application shall accompany the following documents and audio-visuals, if any:
(i) the draft advertisement;
(ii) if it is by electronic media, a copy of the story board;
(iii) if the Chief food authority has given any approval relevant to a claim of a certain food item previously, 
details of such approval; 
(iv) any other relevant document; and
(v) original receipt of the payment of the fee.
(5)	 The	fee	payable	in	respect	of	a	“Letter	of	Approval”	shall	be	as	specified	in	Appendix	D	of	Schedule	IX		hereto.
(6)  On receipt of an application for a “Letter of approval” for advertising of a food, the Chief food authority, shall 
forward such application to a sub-Committee appointed by the food advisory Committee for this purpose.  The 
Chairman of this Committee shall be the director in charge of food Control administration.    

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
10a
(7)  The sub-Committee shall make its recommendations within two months of receiving such application.  The time 
period shall not apply in case additional information is sought by the sub-Committee.
(8)  The Chief food authority may	grant	the	“Letter	of	Approval”	as	specified	in	Form	B	of	Schedule	IX	hereto.
(9)   The “Letter of approval” shall be deemed null and void if there is any change in the nutrition composition of the 
product for which approval is granted or the content or format of the approved advertisement has been changed 
or any conditions stipulated therein has been violated. The Chief food authority may inform the holder of the 
Letter of approval and the media or advertising agency or agent or Institution to suspend the advertising if any 
violation occurs:
 Provided however that this shall not be a bar for any prosecution.
(10)  The said “Letter of approval” shall be valid for a period of three (3) years unless it is revoked or cancelled earlier.
(11)  an application for a renewal of such approval shall be made six (6) months before the expiry of the period of 
validity.
 
(12)  any application for renewal of approval shall be substantially in form C of schedule IX hereto.
(13)		If	 any	request	is	made	to	the	Chief	Food	Authority	based	on	new	scientific	evidence	to	revise	the	approved	
advertisement or claim, the Chief food authority in concurrence with the food advisory Committee may direct 
the sub-Committee to review and report.
(14)  No advertising agency, agent or institution of any media (print, electronic, outdoor) shall accept any advertisement 
containing health claims or nutrient function claims of food without the “Letter of approval” issued by the Chief 
food authority. 
(15)		The	fee	payable	in	respect	of	an	application	for	renewal	is	specified	in	Appendix	D	of	Schedule	IX	hereto.
(16)  a  person shall not advertise infant formulae (starter), infant formulae (follow on), any other food products for 
infants or milk and milk based products for young children. 
(17)  a  person shall not advertise in a product label, print, electronic media, social media or any other means any 
advertisement, audio-visual or a pictorial representation either directly or indirectly, of a pregnant or lactating 
mother, an infant or child under the age of twelve (12) years in relation to food. 
(18)  a  person shall not promote any food directly or indirectly to children under twelve (12) years of age by way of 
advertisements,	leaflets,	free	samples,	articles	or	toys	attached	to	food	items	or	separately	or	by	using	cartoon	
character, mascot or celebrities or any other form, unless approved by the Chief food authority. 
14.  In these regulations unless the context otherwise requires –
“admixture” means a product made by physically mixing different component/s into a mixture;
            
“advertisement” has the same meaning as in the act; 
“approved advertisement” means the advertisement duly approved by the Chief food authority;
           
“bioactive components” means essential and non-essential components that occur in nature, are part of the food 
chain,	and	can	be	shown	to	have	a	benificial	effect	on	human	health;
 
“Chief food authority” shall have the same meaning as in the act;           

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
11a
“common	name”	of	a	food	shall	be	the	name	under	which	the	food	is	commonly	identified;	
        
“dietary	fibre”	means	carbohydrate	polymers	with	ten	or	more	monomeric	units,	which	are	not	hydrolyzed	by	the	
endogenous enzymes in the small intestine of humans and belong to the following categories:-
- edible carbohydrate polymers naturally occurring in the food as consumed;
- carbohydrate polymers, which have been obtained from food raw material by physical, enzymatic 
or	chemical	means	and	which	have	been	shown	to	have	a	physiological	effect	of	benefit	to	health	as	
demonstrated	by	generally	accepted	scientific	evidence	to	competent	authorities;
-		 synthetic	 carbohydrate	polymers	which	have	been	shown	to	have	a	physiological	effect	of	benefit	to	
health	as	demonstrated	by	generally	accepted	scientific	evidence	to	competent	authorities.
“flour	confectionery”	means	products,	including	pastry,	cakes	and	biscuits,	cooked	or	uncooked,	consisting	of	a	
mixture	of	cereals	and	other	foodstuffs,	and	excludes	bread	and	breads	made	by	adding	other	permitted	flours;
“ font size or letter size” means
(i)	 height of letters in case of english capital letters (uppercase) or
(ii)	 height of letters without an ascender or descender (e.g. a, n,m, ."i,m, a>l>s) in case of simple letters.
“formulated	caffeinated	beverage”	shall	have	the	same	meaning	as	in	Sri	Lanka	Standards	specification	183:2013	
for carbonated beverages (3
rd revision);
“fortificant”	means	a	substance,	in	chemical	or	natural	form,	added	to	food	to	increase	its	nutrient	value;
“health claim” means any representation that states, suggests, or implies that a relationship exists between a food 
or a constituent of that food and health.  Health claims include the following: -
(i)  nutrient function claims – a nutrition claim that describes the physiological role of the nutrient in 
growth, development and normal functions of the body.  e.g.  “Calcium aids in the development of 
strong bones and teeth.  food X is a source of/high in calcium”.
(ii)		 other			function	claims	–	These			claims	concern			specific	beneficial	effects	of	the	consumption	of	foods	
or their constituents, in the context of the total diet on normal functions or biological activities of the 
body.  such claims relate to a positive contribution to health or to the improvement of a function or 
to modifying or preserving health e.g. “substance a (naming the effect of substance a on improving 
or modifying a physiological function or biological activity associated with health).  food y contains 
X grams of substance a.”
“infants” means persons under the age of twelve months;
“ingredient” means any substance, including a food additive, used in the manufacture or preparation of a food 
and	present	in	the	final	product	although	possibly	in	a	modified	form;
“labelling” has the same meaning as given in the act;
“main panel” means the part of a label that is most likely to be displayed, presented, shown or examined under 
customary conditions of display for retail sale;

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
12a
Provided however that the area considered to be the “main panel” shall not be less than twenty per cent of the 
total surface area excluding the bottom of the package or container;
“nutrition claim” means any representation which states, suggests or implies that a food has particular nutritional 
properties including but not limited to the energy value and to the content of protein, fat and carbohydrates, 
as well as the content of   vitamins and minerals;
The following shall not constitute nutrition claims: -
(a) the mention of substances in the list of ingredients;
(b) the mention of nutrients as a mandatory part of nutrition labelling;
(c) quantitative or qualitative declaration of certain nutrients or ingredients on the label if required by 
the food act and its regulations made under the act;
“nutrient” means any substance normally consumed as a constituent of food:
(a) which provides energy; 
(b) which is needed for growth, development and maintenance of life; or
(c)	 a	deficit	of	which	will	cause	characteristic	bio-chemical	or	physiological	changes	to	occur;
“nutrient content claim” is a nutrition claim that describes the level of a nutrient contained in a food; (e.g: “source 
of	calcium”;	“high	in	fibre”	and	“low	in	fat”).
“nutrient comparative claim” is a claim that compares the nutrient levels and/or energy value of two or more 
foods (e.g. “reduced”; “less than”; “fewer”; “light”; “increased”; “more than”);
“nutrition labelling” is a description intended to inform the consumer of nutritional properties of a food and 
consists of two components-
(a nutrient declaration and 
(b) supplementary-nutrient information.
“nutrient declaration” means a standardized statement or listing of the nutrient content of a food;
“Nutrient	Reference	Values	(NRVs)”	are	a	set	of	numerical	values	that	are	based	on	scientific	data	for	purposes	
of	nutrition	labelling	and	relevant	claims.		They	comprise	the	following	two	types	of	NRVs;
(a)		 Nutrient	 Reference	Values	–	Requirements	(NRVs	–R)	refer	to	NRVs	that	are	based	on	levels	of	
nutrients associated with nutrient requirements;
(b)	 	Nutrient	Reference	Values	–	Non	communicable	Disease	(NRVs-NCD)	refer	to	NRVs	that	are	based	
on levels of nutrients associated with the reduction in the risk of diet-related non communicable 
diseases	not	including	nutrient	deficiency	diseases	or	disorders.
“packs	for	retail	sale”	means	a	package	or	a	container	intended	for	retail	sale	from	which	a	specific	food	item	
shall be taken, counted, weighed or measured and sold in the presence of the buyer and does not include 
a container containing prepackaged retail packs which are labelled in accordance with these regulations;

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
13a
“person” includes any body of persons corporate or unincorporate; 
“prepackaged” means packaged or made up in advance in a container, ready for offer to the consumer, or for 
catering purposes; 
“processing aids” means any substance or material, not including apparatus or utensils, and not consumed as a 
food ingredient by itself, intentionally used in the processing of raw materials, foods or its ingredients, to 
fulfill	a	certain	technological	purpose	during	treatment	or	processing	which	may	result	in	the	non-intentional	
but	unavoidable	presence	of	residues	or	derivatives	in	the	final	product;					
 
“polyunsaturated fatty acids” means fatty acids with cis-cis methylene interrupted double bonds;
“sugar” means all mono-saccharides and di-saccharides present in food;
“sugar confectionery”  means any solid or semi solid food complete in itself and suitable  for consumption 
without further preparation or processing, of which  the main ingredient is sugar, sweetening matter with 
or without the addition of edible fat, dairy products, gelatin, edible  gums, nuts or preserved fruits and 
includes sweetened liquorice and chewing  gum but does not include chocolate confectionery and cream, ice 
lollies, table jellies, table jelly preparations, slab marzipan,  meringues or pharmaceutical products or sugar;
“three languages” means sinhala, Tamil and english languages;
 “trans fatty acids” means all the geometrical isomers of monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids having 
non-conjugated, interrupted by at least one methylene group, carbon-carbon double bonds in the trans 
configuration;
“wholesale package” means a package containing –
(a)		 a	number	of	retail	packages,	where	such	first	mentioned	package	is	intended	for	sale,	distribution	or	
delivery to an intermediary and is not intended for sale direct to a single consumer; or
(b)  a commodity of food sold to an intermediary in bulk to enable such intermediary to sell, distribute 
or deliver such commodity of food to the consumer in smaller quantities;
“young child” mean a person between the age of twelve months and thirty six months of age.
15.   food (Labelling and advertising) regulations 2005 made under the food act, No. 26 of 1980 and published in Gazette 
Extraordinary No.1376/9 of 19
th January 2005 is hereby rescinded.
sCHeduLe 1                                                 Regulation 4(1) (a)
    
(a) biscuits: 
                                                                                                                  
Cheese bits, Cream Crackers, bran Cracker, Kurakkan Cracker, Crisco, Lemon Puff, Marie, Ginger Nuts, Nice, Wafers, 
Cookies, digestive biscuits
(b) Meat Products:
bratwurst, Pasta Mortadella, Pawkies, salami, Lingus, Chipolotas, bockwurst, frankfurters, Whitewurst, Luncheon meat, 
Pate, Meat loaf, Meat balls, Chicken roll

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
14a
(c) ambulthiyal
(d) Carbonated beverages
(e) Confectionaries: Choco
all carbonated beverages excluding formulated caffeinated beverages, may be exempted from the use of the common name.                                                      
                                                                   
                                                                
sCHeduLe II                                                      Regulation 5(d)
Column I                                                                                 Column II
Minimum Height                                                    area of Main Panel of the Label
1.5 mm                                                                    Not exceeding 120 square cm
3 mm                                                                       exceeding 120 
square cm
sCHeduLe III                                                 Regulation 7(2)                       
 
Item fruit juice content
ready to serve fruit drinks/beverages without dilution   not less than 5 percent m/m fruit juice
   *fruit Nectar ready for consumption without dilution         not less than 15 percent m/m fruit juice
fruit Crush, Cordial, squash or syrup  without dilution            not less than 25 percent m/m fruit juice
fruit Concentrates  without dilution                                           not less than 45 percent  m/m fruit juice
* for lime and lemon adequate content to reach a minimum acidity of 0.5 per cent. 
 
SCHEDULE	IV                                                 Regulation 4(6), 12(4)
NUTRITION LABELLING
NuTrIeNT deCLaraTION
1. Nutrient declaration 
1.1 Nutrient declaration shall be mandatory for:
1.1.1. foods for which nutrition or health claims are made;
1.1.2. foods specially made for infants, young children and pregnant mothers;
1.1.3. foods for special dietary uses and foods for special Medical Purposes.
      
1.2 Nutrient declaration shall be voluntary for all other foods. It shall be mandatory for all food products after the 
expiry of a period of two years from the date of publication of these regulations in the Gazette. 
2. Listing of nutrients
 
2.1 Where nutrient declaration is applied as per section 1 above, the declaration of the following shall be mandatory:
2.1.1 energy value; 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
15a
2.1.2 The amounts of protein, total sugars (with naturally occurring and added sugar), available carbohydrate 
(i.e.	dietary	carbohydrate	excluding	dietary	fibre),	dietary	fibre,	total	fat, saturated fat, trans- fats 
and sodium; 
2.1.3 The amount of any other nutrient for which a nutrition claim and/or health claim and/or reference is 
made on the label; and                       
2.1.4 The amount of any other nutrient considered to be relevant for maintaining a good nutritional status.
         
2.2 Where a claim is made regarding the amount and/or type of fatty acids or the amount of cholesterol, the amounts 
of saturated fatty acids, monounsaturated fatty acids and polyunsaturated fatty acids and cholesterol shall be 
declared, and the amount of trans- fatty acid is required, in addition to the requirements of section 2.1 and in 
accordance with section 4.6.
2.3 In addition to the mandatory declaration under 2.1 and 2.2, vitamins and minerals may be listed in accordance 
with the following criteria:
2.3.1 Only vitamins and minerals for which recommended intakes have been established shall be declared.
2.3.2 When nutrient declaration is applied, vitamins and minerals which are present in amounts less than 
5	per	cent	of	the	Nutrient	Reference	Value	per	100	g	or	100	ml	or	per	serving	as	quantified	on	the	
label shall not be declared.
3. Calculation of nutrients  
3.1 Calculation of energy
The amount of energy to be listed should be calculated by using the following conversion factors: 
 
 Carbohydrates 4 kcal/g  or 17 kJ/g
 Protein 4 kcal/g  or 17 kJ/g
 fat 9 kcal/g  or 37 kJ/g
 Organic acid 3 kcal/g  or 13 kJ/g
3.2 Calculation of protein
      
The amount of protein to be listed should be calculated using the formula:
Protein = Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen x conversion factor
The conversion factor being 6.25 unless a different factor is given in the method of analysis for that food. 
4. Presentation of nutrient content
           
4.1 The declaration of nutrient content shall be numerical. However the uses of additional means of presentation are 
not excluded.    
4.2 Information on energy value shall be expressed in kcal and/or kJ per 100 g or per 100 ml or per package if the 
package contains only a single portion. In addition, this information shall be	given	per	serving	as	quantified	on	
the label or per portion provided that the number of portions contained in the package is stated.
4.3 Information on the amounts of protein, carbohydrate and fat in the food should be expressed in g per 100 g and/
or per 100 ml or per package if the package contains only a single portion. In addition, this information shall be 
given	per	serving	as	quantified	on	the	label	or	per	portion	provided	that	the	number	of	portions	contained	in	the	
package is stated.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
16a
4.4 Numerical information on vitamins and minerals shall be expressed in metric units and/or as a percentage of the 
Nutrient	Reference	Value	per	100	g	or	per	100	ml	or	per	package	if	the	package	contains	only	a	single	portion.	
In	addition,	this	information	shall	be	given	per	serving	as	quantified	on	the	label	or	per	portion	provided	that	the	
number of portions contained in the package is stated. In addition, information on protein and additional nutrients 
may	also	be	expressed	as	percentages	of	the	Nutrient	Reference	Value	where	an	NRV	has	been	established.
            
The	Nutrient	Reference	Values	given	in	Schedule	V	of	these	Regulations	are	for	the	general	population	identified	
as individuals older than 36 months. They should be used for labelling purposes to help consumers make choices 
that contribute to an overall healthful dietary intake. 
4.5	The	presence	of	available	carbohydrates	(carbohydrates	excluding	dietary	fibre)	shall	be	declared	on	the	label	
as “carbohydrates”. Where the type of carbohydrate is declared, this declaration should follow immediately the 
declaration of the total carbohydrate content in the following format:
 “Carbohydrate ... g, of which sugars            ... g”.
This	may	be	followed	by	the	following:	“x”	…	g	where	“x”	represents	the	specific	name	of	any	other	carbohydrate	
constituent.
 
4.6 Where the amount and/or type of fatty acids or the amount of cholesterol is declared, this declaration shall follow 
immediately the declaration of the total fat in accordance with section 4.3. 
 
      The following format should be used:
      Total fat …. g of which                                                                       
saturated fatty acids                                            ....  g
trans- fatty acids                                                 ....  g
monounsaturated fatty acids                        .... g
polyunsaturated fatty acids                          .... g 
    
Cholesterol                                               ...  mg
5. Tolerances and compliance
5.1 Tolerance limits shall be set in relation to public health concerns, shelf-life, accuracy of analysis, processing 
variability and inherent liability and variability of the nutrient in the product, and, according to whether the 
nutrient has been added or is naturally occurring in the product.
5.2	The	values	used	in	nutrient	declaration	shall	be	weighed	average	values	derived	from	data	specifically	obtained	
from analysis of products which are representative of the product being labelled.     
6. Format for basic Nutrition Information Panel to appear on product label
Typical Values Per 100g (in case of solids)
Per 100 ml (in case of liquids)
Per serving
energy kJ kJ
kcal Kcal
Total Carbohydrates g g
dietary fiber g g
Total sugar g g
Naturally occuring sugar g g

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
17a
Typical Values Per 100g (in case of solids)
Per 100 ml (in case of liquids)
Per serving
added sugar g g
Protein g g
Total fat g g
saturated fatty acids g g
Monounsaturated fatty acids g g
Polyunsaturated fatty acids g g
Trans- fatty acids g g
Cholesterol mg mg
sodium (Na) mg mg
                
serving size is ………..g or ml
Number of servings per pack………..      
SCHEDULE	V		                              Regulation 12(5)(a), 
12(6) (b) (c) 12(10) (d)
Nutrient	Reference	Values	(NRVs)	are	of	two	types:	
           
Nutrient	Reference	Values-	Requirements	(NRVs-R)	and	
Nutrient	Reference	Values-Non-Communicable	Disease	(NRVs-NCD)																																							
NRVs-R	per	day
Protein (g)      50
Vitamin	A	(μg)	*																			 800
Vitamin	D	(μg)	 	 			 5
Vitamin	C	(mg)		 													 100
Thiamin (mg)                 1.2
Riboflavin	(mg)		 	 1.2
Niacin (mg) **                       15
Vitamin	B6	(mg)																 1.3
Folate	(μg)	***	 										 400
Vitamin	B12	(μg)		 														 2.4
Biotin	(μg)																													 30
Pantothenate (mg)                   5

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
18a
Vitamin	K	(μg)	 											 60
Vitamin	E	(mg)														 9
Calcium (mg)        1000
Magnesium (mg)         310
Iron (mg)            22
Zinc (mg)           15
Iodine	(μg)		 																			 150
Copper	(μg)																						 900
Selenium	(μg)																				 60
Potassium (mg)              3500
sodium (mg)                  2000
Chloride (mg)                                                                                                                             3400
Phosphorus (mg)             700
Manganese (mg)                 3
fluoride (mg)                     3.5
Chromium	(μg)	 							 120
Molybdenum	(μg)														 45
dietary fibre (g)               30
Conversion factors for niacin, folate and vitamin a equivalents:
Vitamin Vitamin	equivalents																								 dietary equivalents
Niacin 1 mg niacin equivalents(Ne) =                       1 mg niacin
60 mg tryptophan
folate 1		μg	dietary	folate	equivalents	(DFE)	=									 1		μg	food	folate
0.6	μg	folic	acid	added	to	food	or						
                                                                                                         
as supplement consumed with food
                                                                                                           
0.5		μg	folic	acid	as	supplement	
                                                                                                         
taken on an empty stomach

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
19a
Vitamin	A					 1	μg	retinol	activity	equivalents(RAE)	=																1	μg	retinol
                                                                                                               
12	μg	β-carotene
                                                                                                               
24	μg	other	provitamin	A
                                                                                                                          
carotenoids         
Or
1	μg	retinol	equivalents	(RE)	=																														1	μg	retinol
6	μg	β-carotene
                                                                                                               
12	μg	other	provitamin	A	carotenoids		
NRVs-NCD
saturated fatty acids     
sodium                            
20g
2000mg
*rae or re - retinol activity equivalents or retinol equivalents 
**Ne -  niacin equivalents
***dfe- dietary folate equivalents 
SCHEDULE	VI		                          Regulation 12(5)(b) and (c)
explanatory note on use of Nutrition and Health Claims                                                                                                                             
           
1.		NUTRIIENT	COMPARATIVE	CLAIMS
        Comparative claims shall be permitted subject to the following conditions and based on the food as sold, taking 
into account further preparation required for consumption according to the instructions for use on the label:
           
The foods being compared shall be different versions of the same food or similar foods. The foods being 
compared	shall	be	clearly	identified.
         
 a statement of the amount of difference in the energy value or nutrient content shall be given. 
The following information shall appear in close proximity to the comparative claim:-
     
(a) the amount of difference related to the same quantity, expressed as a percentage, fraction, or an 
absolute amount. full details of the comparison shall be given.
(b) the identity of the food(s) to which the food is being compared. The food(s) shall be described in 
such	a	manner	that	it	(they)	can	be	readily	identified	by	consumers.
for comparative claims about energy or macronutrients and sodium, the comparison shall be based on a relative 
difference of at least 30% in the energy value or the nutrient content respectively between the compared foods and a minimum 
absolute	difference	in	the	energy	value	or	nutrient	content	equivalent	to	the	figure	defined	as	“low”	or	as	a	“source”	in	Schedule	
VII.	For	comparative	claims	about	micronutrients	other	than	sodium,	the	comparison	shall	be	based	on	a	difference	of	at	least	
10%	of	the	NRV	between	the	compared	foods.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
20a
2. HeaLTH CLaIMs
for evaluation of nutrition and health claims, only documents either peer reviewed by reputed professional bodies 
or	published	in	peer	reviewed	scientific	journals	shall	be			accepted.	Company	based	research	materials	which	do	not	satisfy	
the above criteria shall not be accepted.
       
Health claims shall be permitted provided that all of the following conditions are met.
The health claim must consist of two parts:
 (i) Information on the physiological role of the nutrient or on an accepted diet-health relationship 
followed by
(ii) Information on the composition of the product relevant to the physiological role of the nutrient 
or the accepted diet-health relationship unless the relationship is based on a whole food or foods 
whereby	the	research	does	not	link	to	specific	constituents	of	the	food.
SCHEDULE	VII		                           Regulation 12(5)(b) and (c)
                                                        
Conditions for Nutrient Contents
COMPONeNT                         CLaIM  CONdITIONs
energy   Low not more than 40 kcal (170 kJ) per 100 g (solids)
not more than 20 kcal (80 kJ) per 100 ml (liquids)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                                       
free                                not more than 4 kcal per 100 ml (liquids)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
reduced*                               energy value  reduced by at least 30%, with an  
indication of the characteristic(s) which make(s) 
the food reduced in its total energy value
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
fat Low                            not more than 3 g per 100 g (solids)**
                                    not more than 1.5 g per 100 ml (liquids)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
free                           not more than 0.5 g per 100 g (solids) or 100 ml 
                                        (liquids)***
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
saturated fat ** * *   
Low                          not more than 1.5 g per 100 g (solids)
                                  not more than 0.75 g per 100 ml (liquids)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
free                           not more than 0.1 g per 100 g (solids)
                                  not more than 0.1 g per 100 ml (liquids)
 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
21a
                                                  reduced                     the sum of saturated fatty acids and trans fatty acids at least 
30% less than the sum of saturated fatty acids and trans 
fatty acids in a similar product and  trans fatty acid content 
equal to or less than in a similar product
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cholesterol****
                                          
  Low                        not more than 0.02 g per 100 g (solids)
           not more than 0.01 g per 100 ml (liquids)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
 free                          not more than 0.005 g per 100 g (solids)
                                                                                    not more than 0.005 g per 100 ml (liquids)  
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Low                         not more than 5 g per 100 g (solids)
                                 not more than 2.5 g per 100 ml (liquids)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
sugars free                          not more than 0.5 g per 100 g (solids)
                                 not more than 0.5 g per 100 ml (liquids)
No added sugar        not contain any added mono- or di-saccharides or any other 
food used for sweetening properties.  If sugars are natural -
ly present in the food, state “Naturally occurring sugars  
present” on  label.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
sodium            
Low                        not more than 0.12 g per 100 g or per 100 ml
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Very	Low															not	more	than	0.04	g	per	100	g	or	per	100	ml
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
free                        not more than 0.005 g per 100 g
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Protein Source																			at	least	10%	of	NRV	per	100	g	(solids)
			 																at	least	5%	of	NRV	per	100	ml	(liquids)	or
																														at	least	5%	of	NRV	per	100	kcal	or	10%	 	 		                                                                          
of	NRV	per	serving
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
High         2 times the values for “source”
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Vitamins	and	Minerals Source		 																	at	least	15%	of	NRV	per	100	g	(solids)
																															at	least	7.5%	of	NRV	per100	ml	(liquids)	or
					 																	at	least	5%	of	NRV	per	100	kcal	or	15%	of	NRV	
                                                                                           per serving
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                                  
High                      2 times the value for “source”
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dietary fibre                                                                                source                   at least 3 g per 100 g or 1.5 g per 100 kcal
																														or	10	%	of	NRV	per	serving
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
High                      at least 6 g per 100 g or 3 g per 100 kcal
																														or	20	%	of	NRV	per	serving
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
22a
Omega-3 fatty acids           source  																at	least	0.3	g	α	linolenic	acid	per	100	g	and	per	100kcal
                             or at least 40 mg of the sum of eicosapentaenoic acid (eP a) 
and docosahexaenoic acid (dHa) per 100 g and per 100 kcal
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
High /rich           2 times the value for “source”
_______________________________________________________________________________
Monounsaturated fat             High                   at   least  45%   of   the  fatty  acids  derived  from monoun-
saturated  fat under the condition that  monounsaturated  fat  
provides  more than 20%  of the energy of the product.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Polyunsaturated fat                High                    at   least  45%     of  the   fatty   acids   derived   from poly-
unsaturated  fat under the condition that polyunsaturated fat 
provides more than 20% of the energy of the product.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
unsaturated fat                     High                 at least 70% of the fatty acids derived from unsaturated fat under 
the condition that unsaturated fat provides more than 20% of 
the energy of the product.    
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         
    * “reduced energy” claim only when there is a comparable product
    **Non fat milk powder exempted                                          
 ***This clause does not apply to aqueous coconut products. 
****In the case of the claims for saturated fat and cholesterol, trans fatty acids shall be taken  into account where applicable
                                           
SCHEDULE	VIII																															Regulation 12(10)(b) and (e)
List of permitted vitamins, minerals, amino acids, fatty acids, nucleotides which may be added to foods
Vitamins  
                                                             
Vitamin	A																																																														
Provitamin a                                                         
Vitamin	D	(D
2 & d3)                                             
Vitamin	E																																																															
Vitamin	K1																																																											
Vitamin	B1																																																											
Vitamin	B2																																																											
Niacin                                                                  
Pantothenic acid                                                  
Vitamin	B6																																																										
folic acid                                                            
Vitamin	B12																																																								
biotin                                                                   
Vitamin	C																																																												
Choline                                                                
Inositol                                                              
Minerals
Calcium 
Phosphorus
Magnesium 
Iron
Copper 
Iodine 
Zinc
Manganese 
sodium 
Potassium 
selenium 
Chromium 
Molybdenum 
flouride
Chloride

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
23a
Amino acids 
                                                        
Isoleucine                                                             
Leucine                                                                
Lysine                                                                  
Methionine                                                          
Phenylalanine                                                      
Threonine
Tryptophan
Valine
Histidine  
arginine      
Tyrosine    
Cystine
Cysteine                        
alanine     
aspartic acid
Citrulline
Glutamic acid
Glutamine
Glycine
Ornithine
Proline
serine
Carnitine
Taurine
Fatty acids
Linoleic acid 
alpha-linolenic acid
arachidonic acid
docosahexaenoic acid (d Ha)  
eicosapentanoic acid (ePa)
Nucleotides
adinosine 5'monophosphate 
(aMP) 
Cytidine 5'monophosphate
(CMP) 
Guanosine 5'monophosphate
(GMP)
uridine5'monophosphate (uMP)
Inosine5'monophosphate (IMP)
                                                                  
sCHeduLe IX                                                       Regulation 13
   
Form A
Application for Advertisement which contains  health Claims of a Food Product
●	Common	Name	of	the	Food	Product:	…………………………………………………………
●	Brand/	Trade	Name	of	the	Food	Product:	…………………………………………………….
1. Applicant* (Manufacturer/Packer/Distributor/Importer):
Name of the Company :
Name of the applicant :
NIC No. of the applicant :
address :
Telephone No:                                             Mobile:
e-mail :
2. Advertising agency or agencies: (Attach separate list if more than one agency)
Name of the agency :

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
24a
Name of the contact person :
NIC No. of the contact person :
address  :
Telephone No. :                                   Mobile:
e-mail  :
3. Claims included in the advertisement for which approval is requested:
I
II
III
IV
4. Manufacturer of the Food Product (only for those manufactured in Sri Lanka)
Name :
address :
Telephone No :                                                             Mobile:
e-mail :
5. Country of Origin (for imported products only):
6. Mode of advertisement:
Mode Yes No
I Video
II audio including disc Jockey (dJ)
III still/slide/Print
7.  Names of the media where the advertisement will be displayed.
Media Name/s
I Television
II radio 
III Newspapers
IV social media
V any other bill	boards,	hoardings,	posters,	leaflets,	brochures,	any	other	(specify)	………

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
25a
8. Advertising Languages (Please tick):
sinhala Tamil english
 
9. Documents and other materials required:
Documents and other materials Yes No
1 Six	(6)	Certified	copies	of	story	boards
2 Six	(6)	Certified	copies	audio-visuals	(if	applicable)
3 Six	(6)	Certified	copies	of	scripts	for	radio	broadcasting	(if	applicable)
4 Six	(6)	Certified	copies	of	draft	advertisement	for	printed	media	(if	applicable)
5 Six	(6)	Certified	copies	of	peer	reviewed	technical/	research	documents	if	any
6 List of ingredients as mentioned in the label
7 Composition analysis report from an independent accredited laboratory
8 any other relevant documents (please specify) eg: NMra Letter
9 receipt of the payment of application fee (Gen 172)
10 An	official	letter	authorizing	the	applicant	by	the	CEO
Date:……………………………         ........................................                                                
                                                 Signature of Applicant*
NIC No.
Company seal
                                                                                                                                                                           
*	Chief	Executive	Officer	(CEO)	or	Designate	of	CEO
    
               
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          application Number
Official Use only

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
26a
FORM B
Letter of Approval for Advertisement which contains health Claims & Nutrient Function Claims of a Food Product
approval is hereby granted on this day to Mr/Ms ……………………………………. (applicant name) bearing NIC 
Number………………………………………………….. of …………………………………………. (company 
name and address) to advertise the food stuff ………………………………………. (Common Name) of the brand 
………………………………. (brand/trade name) in the ……………………………………… (media) by strictly adhering 
to	the	submitted	advertisement/	story	board	(certified	copy	attached)	in	Sinhala/	Tamil/	English	language/s	only	with	the	
below mentioned claim/s.
Claims approved
1. ……………………………………………………………………………..
2. ……………………………………………………………………………..
3. ……………………………………………………………………………..
4. ……………………………………………………………………………..
This letter of approval is valid for three (3) years from the date of issue and is subjected to the conditions prescribed in the 
Gazette Extraordinary No............ of…………….  food (Labelling and advertising) regulations 2022 made under the food 
act, No 26 of 1980.
This Letter of approval shall be null and void if any unauthorized change is made in the product composition, nutritional 
outcome, contents, language and format of the advertisement or story board for which the application was submitted and 
approval granted. 
………………                                                                  …………………………………………………………................ ,
date of issue.                                                                 Chief food authority/director in charge of food    
Control administration. 
                                                                                                         
referral Number
Application Number

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
27a
FORM C
Application for the Renewal of Approval Granted for Food Advertisement
1. Common Name of the food Item
2. brand/Trade Name of food Item
3. date of previous approval granted
4. Previous approval expiry date
5. receipt Number of the payment of renewal fee (Gen 172) (Please 
attach the receipt)
6. An	official	letter	authorizing	the	applicant	by	the	CEO
1. Applicant * (Manufacturer/ Packer / distributor / importer)
Name of the Company :
Name of the applicant :
NIC No. of the applicant :
address :
Telephone No :                                                             Mobile:
e-mail :
2. Advertising agency or agencies: (Attach separate list if more than one agency)
Name :
Name of the contact person :
NIC No. of the contact person :
address :
Telephone No :                                                             Mobile:
e-mail :
            referral Number
 Original Application Number

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
28a
3. Manufacturer of the Food Product (only for those manufactured in Sri Lanka)
Name :
address :
Telephone No :                                                             Mobile:
e-mail :
4. Country of Origin (for imported products only):
5. Mode of Advertisement:
Mode Yes No
I Video
II audio including disc Jockey (dJ)
III still/ slide/Print
6. Names of the media where the advertisement will be displaced:
Media Name/s
I Television
II radio
III Newspapers
IV social media
V any other bill	boards,	hoardings,	posters,	leaflets,	brochures,	any	other	
(specify)……………………………..
7. Advertising Languages (Please tick):
sinhala                       Tamil                 english
I do hereby certify that no changes have been made to the composition of the product and the format of the advertisement 
since last approval and request for the renewal of the approval granted for the above referred advertisement.
date :………………………                                                                            …………………………………. ,
signature of applicant *
NIC No,
Company seal.
*Chief	Executive	Officer	(CEO)	or	Designate	of	CEO

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
29a
Appendix D
Fees
1. Processing fee for application – rs. 25,000/- for each language (Non refundable)
2. Processing fee for amended version of advertisement (re submission) – rs.25,000/- (Non refundable)
3. fee for issuing the letter of approval –
Mode of advertisement Rs.
I Video rs. 100,000.00
II audio including disc Jockey (dJ) rs. 75,000.00
III still/slide/Print/billboard rs. 50,000.00
4. fee for renewal of letter of approval – rs. 50,000/-
application for the renewal of letter of approval is made six (6) months prior to the expiry of the validity of the letter of 
approval.
5. a fee of rs. 2000/- shall be paid for a duplicate copy of the letter of approval if the original is damaged or lost and such 
copy of approval shall bear the words “duplicate copy”.
eOG 02-0150
PRiNTeD aT The DePaRTmeNT OF GOVeRNmeNT PRiNTiNG,  SRi laNKa.