

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.09.2014
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1881$10 - 2014 iema;eïn¾ ui 23 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2014'09'23
No. 1881/10  - TUESDAY ,  SEPTEMBER  23,  2014
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
L. D. B. 4/2007.
AYURVEDA  ACT No. 31 OF 1961
REGULATIONS formulated by the Ayurveda Medical Council under Section 18 of the Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961.
Chairman,
Ayurveda Medical Council.
23rd  September  2014,
Colombo.
Regulations
1. This regulation, known as the Professional Code of Ethics for Ayurveda Nursing officers bearing No. 01 of 2013,
would come into effect from 01.10.2014.
RESPONSIBILITY   OF   THE   NURSING    PROFESSION
2. Nursing is a universal necessity and therefore,
(a) Promotion of health ;
(b) Freedom from disease ;
(c) Sustenance of health ;
(d) Relief from illness related suffering
are responsibilities of every Ayurveda nursing officer.
3. It is an inherent characteristic of the nursing profession to respect the human rights of the patient including his/her
cultural right, his/her right to life and discretion and his/her self-respect. Nursing is a noble profession and thus its provision
should not, in any way be affected by reason of, the patient's race, colour, cast, creed, age, culture, sexual  preference, political
ideology, social status, gender, debilitation or the state of health.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.09.2014
2A
4. The service of an Ayurveda nursing officer is either for, an individual, a family, or for the society at large and it is the
duty of the officer to act in liaison with the other related services of the health sector, during the course of his/her nursin g
service.
AYURVEDA  NURSING  OFFICER  AND  THE  PUBLIC
5. The public in need of health care is the primary responsibility of an Ayurveda nursing officer. Therefore, in
discharging that duty, every nursing officer should ;
(a) Strive to create an environment in which the human rights, ethics, customs and religious  beliefs of the
patient, his family and the general public, are respected.
(b) Provide correct, timely and adequate information regarding the illness to the patient to obtain his/her
consent for the provision of health care and other related attentive.
(c) Maintain privacy with regard to the personal information of the patient, unless such information is divulged
either,
(i) with the permission of the patient ;
(ii) to a close relative of the patient for the benefit of the patient or ;
(iii) when authorized to do so by the Ayurveda Medical Council upon solicitation by a Court of Law.
(d) Exercise equity and justice when providing nursing service, in the distribution of resources among patients
and in the provision of health care facilities to patients.
AYURVEDA   NURSING   OFFICER   AND   THE   PROVISION   OF   THE   NURSING   SERVICE
6. The Ayurveda nursing officer should, at all times, maintain the highest standards of his/her profession and this
should be done through continuous research and access to current information on the profession.
7. The nursing officer should maintain his/her own health in a proper state so that it would not come in the way of
his/her service to the patients.
8. The nursing officers should conduct himself/herself in such a way so as to symbolize and enhance the dignity of
his/her profession and also to earn the confidence of the general public.
9. A nursing officer, when deploying new technology and sicentifically advanced methods in the course of his/her
nursing duties, should ensure that such deployments are  in the best interest of the patient and that those in no way jeopardize
the safety, rights and respect of the patient.
10. The Ayurveda nursing officer should strive, to provide his/her service with utmost courtesy and also, to engage
the patient in an open dialogue.
AYURVEDA   NURSING   OFFICER   AND   THE   NURSING   PROFESSION
11. The nursing officer should contribute towards the management, and in the determination and implementation of
established standards of education and research institutions, during the provision of his/her service at medical clinics.
12. The nursing officer should actively participate in the initiation, upholding and in the furtherance of standards and
the code of ethics of the nursing profession.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.09.2014
3A
13. The nursing officer should contribute towards the creation of a standard of service that it positive, collective,
secure and also socio-economically justifiable.
14. The nursing officer should take action to protect the environment and be educated on the influence of environ-
ment on health
THE   NURSING   OFFICER   AND   THE   OTHER   MEMBERS   OF   THE   STAFF
15. The nursing officer should maintain cordiality and coordination with his/her professional colleagues as well as
with other health professionals.
16. The nursing officer, in the event of a perceived health threat to an individual, family or General public, from a
member of the staff or from an outsider, should take appropriate action to protect the individual , family or the general public
from that health threat.
17. The nursing officer should assist his/her staff members in the furtherance and enhancement of their professional
conduct ; provide guidance.
THE    PENALTIES
18. (1) Every Ayurveda nursing officer should abide by the aforesaid regulations and any breach of one or several of
the said regulations would be construed as professional misconduct.
(2) The Ayurveda Medical Council is empowered to rescind the registration of an Ayurveda nursing officer, found
guilty of professional misconduct at a inquiry held in terms of the Ayurveda (disciplinary) regulations, 1973.
(3) (a) However, in determining whether a particular nursing officer is guilty or otherwise of “Professional Miscon-
duct” the Ayurveda Medical Council will not limit its inquiry in to the provisions of the said regulations alone.
(b) This declaration is made to dispel doubts entertained on the position that the Ayurveda Medical Council will
institute legal action under Ayurveda disciplinary regulations of 1973, when the Ayurveda Medical Council considers that the
perpetration of a particular act has not been covered under the said regulations and that it is apparent to the Ayurveda Medical
Council that the perpetration of that act impinges on the reputation of the nursing Profession.
INTERPRETATIONS
19. For the purpose of this regulations -
The “Council” is the Ayurveda Medical Council formed under Section 11 of the Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961.
The “Ayurved a nursing officer” is a nursing officer registered under the Ayurveda Act, No. 31of 1961.
10-349
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.