

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
777
777
wxl 1"808 - 2013 wfm%a,a 26 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'04'26
No. 1,808 – FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 780
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 788
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 17th  May, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 03rd  May,
2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SILV A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Note .— (i) Customs (Amendment) Bill is published as a Supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka of February 22, 2013.
(ii) Nation Building Tax (Amendment) Bill is published as a Supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of February 22, 2013.
(iii) Muslim Marriage and Divorce (Amendment) Bill is published as a Supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 22, 2013.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
778
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
779
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
780
Posts – Vacant
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
Post of Sub Inspector (State Intelligence Service)
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for the
Post of Recruit Sub Inspector of Police in the Sri Lanka Police
Department, directly to the State Intelligence Service.
2. Application forms duly perfected in accordance with the
specimen form given below should be sent to Director/Recruitment,
Recruiting Office, No. 375, Sri Sambuddathwa Jayanthi Mawatha,
Colombo 06. The application should be sent by Registered Post to
the above mentioned address to reach on or before 25.06.2013 and
the post applied for should be marked on the top left hand corner of
the envelope enclosing the application. Delayed applications will
be rejected and no applications will be issued by Sri Lanka Police
Department.
3. Salary scale.– Rs. 190,200 - 7 x 2,160 - 2 x 2,880 - 8 x 3,840
- 17 x 4,500 - Rs. 318,300.
In addition to the above salary scale, they will be paid following
allowances :
Rs. cts.
(a) Arduous duty allowance 2,000 0
(b) Combined allowance :
(1) For performance of duties in 12,000 0
North and East areas
(2) For performance  duties in other areas 9,600 0
(c) Other allowances :
(1) Uniform cleaning allowance 250 0
(2) Civil cloth allowance 200 0
(3) Incentive allowance 1,500 0
(4) 25% of the basic salary will be paid as
special allowance
(a) Free transport facilities.
(b) Free Medical facilities to officers  (Financial
assistance can be obtained for medical treatment
even in a foreign country.).
(c) All uniforms will be provided free of charge.
(d) Facilities to improve skill and talents in sports.
(e) Travelling expenses for duty and money will be
granted as rewards for outstanding and arduous
duties.
(f) Selected applicants should be willing to perform
their duties in civil attires and ready to undergo
domestic and foreign trainings.
04. Basic qualifications :
(a) Age limits. – The age should be between 18 and 28
years as at closing date as per the Gazette Notification.
However officers in Police Department and Security
Assistants Service Personal serving in the Police
Department are eligible to apply up to the age of 30
years as at the closing date of applications.
(b) Educational qualifications :
* Passed the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in 06 subjects
at one sitting with credit passes in 04 subjects which
02 should be medium language and Mathematics.
* Applicants should have passed at least 03 subjects
at one sitting at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination.
Note.– 01. According to the classification of subjects of the
Department of Examinations, in calculating the
Number of subjects passed at G . C. E. (O/L)
passes in Science subjects Number 41 , 44 will
be treated as one subject and both passes in
Mathematics Number 42 and 45 will be treated
as one subject.
Note.– 02. Failure in the Technical subjects at written test
of G . C. E. (O/L) ESxamination will be considered
as failure in the same subject although a pass has
been obtained for the same subject in the Practical
Test.
Note.– 03. Since optional subjects of Tamil, English and
Sinhala have not been included in the stream of
G . C. E. (O/L) syllabus passes in any of these
subjects will not be computed as a pass in the
G . C. E.  (O/L) Examination.
(c) Physical requirements
 :
  * Height 05 feet 06 inches (minimum).
  * Chest 32 inches Minimum (in exhalation).
Note.– Applicants who are slightly short of the physical
requirements, but fulfill the other stipulated
qualifications will be eligible at the discretion of
Inspector General of Police provided that they have
skills in sports or have achieved best performance in
sports at national level or they have earned reputation
for Sri Lanka by participating in an international
competition.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
781
(d) Visual requirement.– Vision should not be less than 6/12
with each eye, if the vision is of 6/6 with one eye and
6/18 with the other eye it will be accepted. Colour vision
should be normal. Applicants wearing spectacles or
contact lenses will not be eligible.
(e) Other qualifications :
Applicants should be unmarried. (Divorcees will be
considered as married). Only this condition will not
apply for those who have fulfilled the other
qualifications and presently serving in the Police
Department and for the Security Assistants.
5. Method of recruitment.– Selected applicants will have to pass
the Basic Qualification Test conducted by the Department of Police.
Only those who have passed this test must also get through the
physical fitness test or endurance test :
1,000 meters 3 minutes 14 seconds
Those who are successful in the Physical test will be
summoned for final interview. Those who score 40% or more
will be summoned for the final written test.
* The Written Test consists of two question papers :–
* An essay paper not less than 500 words within 45
minutes.
* General Knowledge and Intelligence Paper - 1 Hour.
6. Medical Examination .– Applicants selected as per the list of
priority and order of merit should pass a Medical Examination
prior to the appointment. Unsuccessful candidates will be rejected.
7. Background Inquiries  :
(a) In view of confirm the conduct of the applicant, inquiries
will be made on the conduct of the applicant, close
relations and friends. Applicants with  bad conduct will
not be recruited.
(b) Providing false information will make the applicant
ineligible. If the false information is elicited after the
appointment, the applicants will be dismissed from the
service.
8. Implementation of Official Language Policy :
* As per the Public Administration Circular, No. 07/2007
dated 28.04.2007 issued by the Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs, all officers recruited
to the Public/Provincial Public Service with effect from
01.07.2007 should acquire proficiency in the other official
language within a period of 05 years in addition to the
official language through which they enter the service.
* Officers recruited below the rank of an Assistant
Superintendent of Police from 01.07.2007 should pass
the Language Test conducted by the Official Language
Department.
* The salary increments of the officers who do not acquire
the specific proficiency in the second official language
within a period of 05 years from the date of their
appointments will be deferred until they obtain
qualifications.
9. Terms of Engagement. – This post is permanent and
pensionable. You are liable to contribute to the Widows'/Widowers'
and Orphans' Pension Scheme.
10. Conditions of Service :
(a) This appointment is subjected to a three year probation
period.
(b) The selected applicants will be required to comply with
any rules already made or may hereinafter be made to
give effect to the official language policy.
(c) They will be subjected to the relevant provisions of the
Establishments Code Volume I and II, Financial
Regulations, Departmental Orders and any other orders
that may be issued by the Inspector General of Police or
by the Government from time to time.
(d) Prior to their confirmation, every officer will be required
to pass the prescribed Departmental Examinations. Those
who fail to pass the prescribed examinations or found to
be unfit for Poilce duties will be liable for removal from
the Police Service.
(e) Permission will not be granted to marry prior to being
confirmed in the said rank without the permission of the
Inspector General of Police. However, in terms of P . G. II
No. 41 dated 28.02.1973 and I. G . P .'s Circular
No. 1952/2006 of 19.10.2006 and Circular (Amended)
dated 09.08.2007, it is possible to marry showing special
reasons and with permission of Inspector General of
Police.
(f) Applicants on being appointed and after the training
should serve a probationary period of three years in the
Police Department and if they wish to resign from service
before their probation is over, they should sign an
agreement of consent to the effect that they are willing to
pay at the time of tendering their resignation, any amount
which was incurred on the training and uniforms etc.,
together with any other prescribed payments. Director
of Police Training College will decide it having calculated
dues from the applicants. The acceptance of resignation
should conform to the Section 4, Chapter V of Volume I
of the Establishments Code, 1985.
(g) Immediately after Probationary Sub Inspectors have
commenced their training at the Police Training College,

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
782
they should take affirmation/oath to the effect that they
comply with the Police Code of conduct in terms of the I.
G . P.’s Circular No. 1693/2003.
(h) Immediately after Probationary Sub Inspectors have
commenced their training at the Police Training College,
subscribe the Oath of allegiance to a prestigious Public
service, in terms of the I. G . P.'s Circular, No. 1804/2004.
(i) Probationary Sub Inspectors who have been confirmed
in the post will have opportunities for promotions in
terms of the approved schemes of promotions of the
Police Department.
11. (a) Attention is invited to the general conditions applicable
to appointments to posts in the Public Service published
at the beginning of the Section (IIA) of the Part I of this
Gazette.
(b) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public Administration
Circular, No. 15/90 dated 10.03.1990.
12. Applicants should annex copies of the following documents
to their applications (originals must not be forwarded) :
(i) Birth certificate ;
(ii) Two recent testimonials of character (obtained from
persons who are not related) ;
(iii) Certificate in support of educational qualifications ;
(iv) Certificate in support of sports with outstanding records
or other extra curricular activates ;
(v) A photostat copy of the service experience (if available) ;
(vi) A photostat copy of the Identity Card.
13. (a) Applicants who are already in the Public Service must
forward their applications through the Heads of their
respective departments and they must be accompanied
with a certificate stating that the officer can be released,
if selected.
(b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their own
hand writing on paper 11" x 8" in size and post them
together with the copies of certificates called for, to the
address given in paragraph two and under no
circumstances should applications be handed over
personally to any officer in the Department.
14. Applications which do not conform to the requirements
stipulated in this notification will be rejected and such applicants
will not be notified.
Note.– No travelling or other expenses will be paid to
applicants who are summoned for the test and interview.
Inspector General of Police.
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
P
OST OF PROBATIONARY SUB INSPECTOR (SPECIAL TASK FORCE)
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
01. ( a) Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––.
(As stated in the applicant's Birth Certificate)
(b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
(c) Post applied for :––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
(Copy of the NIC should be attached)
03. Father's name in full :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
Police station to which the place of birth belongs :––––––––.
Province :––––––––––.
05. ( a) Present address :––––––––––.
(b) Police Station to which the present address belongs :
––––––––––.
(c) Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(d) Police station to which the permanent address belongs :
––––––––––.
(e) The electorate to which the permanent address belongs :
–––––––––.
(f) Grama Niladari's Division to which permanent address
belongs :–––––––––.
Divisional Secretariat :–––––––––.
(g) Telephone Number (Residence) :–––––––––.
Mobile No. :––––––––––.
06. ( a) Nationality :––––––––––.
(b) Whether you are a citizen by birth or registration :–––––.
(If by registration, attach copies of certificate)
(c) If you are citizen by birth, state the place of birth :
(i) Applicant :––––––––––.
(ii) Applicant's father :––––––––––.
(iii) Applicant's paternal grandfather :––––––––––.
(iv) Applicant's paternal great grandfather :––––––––.
07. Date of birth :––––––––––. (Copy of the birth certificate should
be attached)
Age : (as at the closing date of application as stated in the
Gazette):
Years :––––––––– Months :––––––––– Days :–––––––––.
08. Height : Feet :––––––––––.  Inches :––––––––––.
Chest (inches) :––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications (Copies of the certificates should be
attached) :––––––––––.
10. Additional qualifications (Copies of the certificates should be
attached) :–––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
783
11. Whether married or unmarried :––––––––––.
12. (i) Present employment :––––––––––.
(ii) Are you a member of any armed forces ? :––––––––––.
13. Do you have any special skills and/or qualifications :––––––.
14. Give names and addresses of two referees to inquire the
applicant  :
(i) ––––––––––.
(ii) ––––––––––.
15. ( a) Have you ever applied for a post in the Reserve Police
Service or Regular Police Service ? (If so give reference) :
––––––––––.
(b) Have you served in the Regular Police Service or in the
Sri Lanka Reserve Police before ? (If so under what
circumstances did you leave the service ? Give details) :
––––––––––.
16. Are you a member of the Sri Lanka Police Reserve ? If so give
date of appointment, Rank and number. Attach a copy of the
appointment letter :––––––––––.
17. ( a) Are you serving in any armed service ? (If so your
application must be submitted through the respective
service Commander) :––––––––––.
(b) Have you served in any of the Armed service ? (If so
attach copy of your discharge certificate) :––––––––––.
18. ( a) Are you serving as a V olunteer in any of the Armed
Service ?
(If so, your application must be submitted through the
respective Service Commander) :––––––––.
(b) Have you served in any of the V olunteer Armed service ?
:––––––––.
(If so attach copy of your discharge certificate)
19. Have you been involved in or concerned in or charged or arrested
even on suspicion and or convicted of any offence ? (If so give
details) :––––––––––.
20. Have any of your relatives been involved or concerned in or
charged or arrested even on suspicion and or convicted of any
offence ? (If so give details) :––––––––––.
I hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct to
the best of my knowledge and belief. If the particulars furnished are
found to be incorrect or fake, I am aware that I am liable for immediate
termination of my service in the Police Department at any time
even though I have been appointed to the post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
21. Certification of the Head of  Department (if applicable) :
This is to certify that the applicant Mr./Miss ..................... is
serving in ........................ the Department/Corporation/Board and
if he is selected for the above post, he could be released from
service.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Designation :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
04–672/1
–––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
Post of Police Constable (State Intelligence Service)
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for the
Post of Police Constable in the Sri Lanka Police Department, for
the recruitment to the State Intelligence Service directly.
2. Application forms duly perfected in accordance with the
specimen form given below should be sent to Director/Recruitment,
Recruiting Office, No. 375, Sri Sambuddathwa Jayanthi Mawatha,
Colombo 06. The application should be sent by Registered Post to
the abovementioned address to reach on or before 25.06.2013 and
the post applied for should be marked on the top left hand corner of
the envelope enclosing the application. Delayed applications will
be rejected and no application will be issued by Sri Lanka Police
Department.
3. Salary scale.– Rs. 171,360 - 7 x 1,740 - 10x2,160 - 17 x 2,880
- Rs. 254,100.
In addition to the above salary scale, they will be paid following
monthly allowances :
Rs. cts.
(a) Arduous duty allowances 2,000 0
(b) Combined allowances :
(1) For performing duties in 10,500 0
North and East areas
(2) For performance of duties in other areas 8,400 0
(c) Other allowances :
(1) Uniform cleaning allowance 250 0
(2) Civil cloth allowance 200 0
(3) Incentive allowance 1,500 0
(4) 25% of the basic salary will be paid as
special allowance

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
784
(a) Free transport facilities.
(b) Free Medical facilities to officers  (Financial
assistance can be obtained for medical treatment
even in a foreign country.).
(c) All uniforms will be provided free of charge.
(d) Facilities to improve their skills and talents in sports.
(e) Travelling expenses for duty and money will be
granted as rewards for outstanding and arduous
duties.
(f) Selected applicants should be willing to perform
their duties in civil attires and they should ready to
undergo domestic and foreign trainings.
04. Basic qualifications :
(a) Age limits.– According to the Gazette Notification The
age should be in between 18 and 28 years as at the
closing date of applications. However Security
Assistants who are serving in the Police Department
are eligible to apply up to 30 years as at the closing
date of applications.
(b) Educational qualifications :
Should have passed 06 subjects including
Mathematics and Medium Language in not more than
two attempts at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination.
Applicants who are qualified within two attempts
should have passed at least 05 subjects at the first
attempt.
Note.– 01. According to the classification of subjects of the
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, number
of subjects passed at the examination will be
decided by considering the two science subjects
bearing numbers 41, 44 as one subject and the
two Mathematics subjects bearing numbers 42
and 45 as one subject.
Note.– 02. Failure in the Technical subjects at written test
of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination will be considered
as failure in the same subject although a pass has
been obtained for the same subject in the Practical
Test.
Note.– 03. Since optional subjects of Tamil, English and
Sinhala have not been included in the stream of
G . C. E. (O/L) passes in any of these subjects
will not be computed as a pass in the G . C. E.
(O/L) Examination.
(c) Physical requirements :
  * Height 05 feet 04 inches (minimum).
  * Chest 30 inches (Minimum /in exhalation).
Note.– Applicants who are slightly short of the physical
requirements, but fulfill the other stipulated
qualifications will be eligible at the discretion of
Inspector General of Police provided  they have skills
in sports or have achieved best performance in sports
at national level or they have earned reputation for
Sri Lanka by participating in an international
competition.
(d) Visual requirement.– Vision should not be less than 6/12
with each eye, if the vision is of 6/6 with one eye and
6/18 with the other eye it will be accepted. Colour vision
should be normal. Applicants wearing spectacles or
contact lenses will not be eligible.
(e) Other qualifications :
Applicants should be unmarried. (Divorcees will be
considered as married). Only this condition will not
apply for those who have fulfilled the other
qualifications and presently serving in the Police
Department and for the Security Assistants.
5. Method of recruitment.– Selected applicants will have to pass
the Basic Qualification Test conducted by the Department of Police.
Only those who have passed this test must also get through the
physical fitness test or endurance test.
1,000 meters 03 minutes 44 seconds
Only those who are successful in the physical fitness or
endurance test will be called for final interview. Only those
who score 40% or more will be called for the written test.
* The written test consists of two question papers :–
* An essay paper not less than 500 words within 45
minutes.
* General Knowledge and Intelligence Test Paper - 1
hour.
6. Medical Test.– Candidates who are selected according to the
priority and merit test will have to get through medical test prior to
their appointment. Unsuccessful candidate will be rejected.
7. Background Inquiries  :
(a) In veiw of confirm the conduct of the applicant, inquiries
will be made on the conduct of the applicant, close
relations and friends. If the applicants with  the adverse
reports he will be rejected for recruitment.
(b) Providing false information will make the applicant
ineligible. If the false information is elicited after the
appointment, the applicants will be dismissed from the
service.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
785
8. Implementation of Official Language Policy :
* As per the Public Administration Circular, No. 07/2007
dated 28.04.2007 issued by the Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs, all officers recruited
to the Public/Provincial Service with effect from
01.07.2007 should acquire proficiency in the other official
language within a period of 05 years in addition to the
official language through which they enterred to the
service.
* Officers recruited below the rank of an Assistant
Superintendent of Police from 01.07.2007 should pass
the language test of secondary level conducted by the
Department of Official Language.
* The salary increments of those who fail to pass the second
official language within 5 years from the date of
appointment will be deferred until a pass is obtained.
9. Terms of Engagement. – This post is permanent and
pensionable. You are liable to contribute to the Widows'/Widowers'
and Orphans' Pension Scheme.
10. Conditions of Service :
(a) This appointment is subjected to a recruit period of three
years.
(b) The selected applicants will be required to comply with
any rules already made or may hereinafter be made to
give effect to the language policy of the Government.
(c) They will be subjected to the relevant provisions of the
Establishments Code Volume I and II, Financial
Regulations, Departmental Orders and any other orders
that may be issued by the Inspector General of Police or
by the Government from time to time.
(d) Prior to their confirmation of post every officer should
pass the prescribed Departmental Examinations. Those
who fail to pass the prescribed examinations or found to
be unfit for Police duties are liable to dismiss from the
service.
(e) Permission will not be granted to the selected officers to
marry prior to being confirmed in the said rank without
the permission of the Inspector General of Police.
However, in terms of P. G . II No. 41 dated 28.02.1973
and I. G. P.'s Circular No. 1952/2006 of 19.10.2006 and
Circular (Amended) dated 09.08.2007, it is possible to
marry showing special reasons and with permission of
Inspector General of Police.
(f) Applicants on being appointed and after the training
should serve a probationary period of 03 years in the
Police Department and if they wish to resign from service
before their probation is over, they should sign an
agreement of consent to the effect that they are willing to
pay at the time of tendering their resignation, any amount
which was incurred on the training and uniforms etc.,
together with any other prescribed payments. Director
of Police Training College will decide it having calculated
due from the applicants. The acceptance of resignation
should conform to the Section 4, Chapter V of Volume I
of the Establishments Code, 1985.
(g) Immediately after Recruit Police Constables have
commenced their training at the Police Training College,
they should take affirmation/oath to the effect that they
comply with the Police Code of conduct in terms of the I.
G. P.’s Circular No. 1693/2003.
(h) Immediately after Recruit Police Constables have
commenced their training at the Police Training College,
they should take the Oath of allegiance to the Public
Service, in terms of the I. G. P .'s Circular, No. 1804/2004.
(i) Recruit Police Constables who have been confirmed in
the post will have opportunities for promotions in terms
of the approved scheme of promotions of the Police
Department.
11. (a) Attention should be paid to the general conditions
applicable to appointments to the posts in the Public
Service published in the Section (IIA) of the Part I of
this Gazette.
(b) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public Administration
Circular, No. 15/90 dated 10.03.1990.
12. Applicants should annex copies of the following documents
to their applications (originals must not be forwarded) :
(i) Birth certificate ;
(ii) Two recent testimonials of character (obtained from
persons who are not related) ;
(iii) Certificates substantiating educational qualifications ;
(iv) Certificates substantiating any outstanding sports or
other extra curricular activities ;
(v) A photo copy of certificates of services (if available) ;
(vi) A photo copy of the Identity Card.
13. (a) Applicants who are already in the Public Service must
forwarded their applications through the Heads of their
respective departments and they must be accompanied
with a certificate stating that the officer can be released if
selected.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
786
(b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their own
hand writing on paper 11" x 8" in size and post them
together with the copies of certificates called for, to the
address given in paragraph two and under no
circumstances should applications be handed over
personally to any officer in the Department.
14. Applications which do not conform to the requirements
stipulated in this notification will be rejected and such applicants
will not be notified.
Note.– No travelling or other expenses will be paid to
applicants who are summoned for the test and interview.
Inspector General of Police.
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
P
OST OF RECRUIT POLICE CONSTABLE (STATE INTELLIGENCE SERVICE)
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
01. ( a) Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––.
(As stated in the applicant's birth certificate)
(b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
(c) Post applied for :––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
(Photo copy of the NIC should be attached)
03. Father's name in full :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
Police station to which the place of birth belongs :––––––––.
Province :––––––––––.
05. ( a) Present address :––––––––––.
(b) Police Station to which the present address belongs :
––––––––––.
(c) Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(d) Police station to which the permanent address belongs :
––––––––––.
(e) The electorate to which the permanent address belongs :
–––––––––.
(f) Grama Niladari's Division to which permanent address
belongs :–––––––––.
Divisional Secretariat :–––––––––.
(g) Telephone Number (Residence) :–––––––––.
Mobile No. :––––––––––.
06. ( a) Nationality :––––––––––.
(b) Whether you are a citizen by birth or registration :–––––.
(If by registration, attach copies of certificate)
(c) If you are citizen by birth, state the place of birth :
(i) Applicant :––––––––––.
(ii) Applicant's father :––––––––––.
(iii) Applicant's paternal grandfather :––––––––––.
(iv) Applicant's paternal great grandfather :––––––––.
07. Date of birth :––––––––––. (Copy of the birth certificate should
be attached)
Age (as at the closing date of application as stated in the
Gazette):
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
08. Height : Feet :––––––––––.  Inches :––––––––––.
Chest (inches) :––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications (Copies of the certificates should be
attached) :––––––––––.
10. Additional qualifications (Copies of the certificates should be
attached) :–––––––––.
11. Whether married or Single :––––––––––.
12. (i) Present employment :––––––––––.
(ii) Are you a member of the armed forces ? :––––––––––.
13. Do you have any special skills and/or qualifications :––––––.
14. Give names and addresses of two referees to inquire the
applicant :
(a) ––––––––––.
(b) ––––––––––.
15. ( a) Have you ever applied for a post in the Reserve Police
Service or Regular Police Service  (If so give reference) :
––––––––––.
(b) Have you served in the Regular Police Service or in the
Sri Lanka Reserve Police service before ? (If so, under
what circumstances did you leave the service ? Give
details) : ––––––––––.
16. Are you a member of the Sri Lanka Police Reserve ? If so give
date of appointment, Rank and number. Attach a copy of the
appointment letter :––––––––––.
17. ( a) Are you serving in any armed service ? (If so your
application must be submitted through the respective
Commander of the respective service) :––––––––––.
(b) Have you served in any of the Armed service ? (If so
attach copy of your discharge certificate) :––––––––––.
18. ( a) Are you serving as a V olunteer in any of the Armed
Service ? (If so, your application must be submitted
through the respective service Commander) :––––––––.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
787
(b) Have you served in any of the V olunteer Armed service ?
:––––––––.
(If so attach copy of your discharge certificate)
19. Have you been involved in or concerned in or charged or arrested
even on suspicion and or convicted of any offence ? (If so give
details) :––––––––––.
20. Have any of your relatives been involved or concerned in or
charged or arrested even on suspicion and or convicted of any
offence ? (If so give details) :––––––––––.
I hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct to
the best of my knowledge and belief. If the particulars furnished are
found to be incorrect or false, I am aware that I am liable for
immediate termination of my service in the Police Department at
any time even though I have been appointed to the post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
04–672/2
––––––––––––––––
Amendment
VALUATION  DEPARTMENT
IN the notification published in the Gazette Part I : Section (IIA) of
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,807 of 19.04.2013
"Post Vacant" the "Application Form" has not been printed at the
end of that notification. The relevant application form is now printed
below :
R. A. R. M. N. R
AJAKARUNA ,
Chief Valuer.
Valuation Department,
No. 748,
Maradana Road,
Colombo 10.
Specimen Application Form
(Applications should be prepared in accordance with the
specimen application)
APPLICATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT OF LEGAL
OFFICERS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF VALUATION
01. Name of the Applicant :––––––––––––.
1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.2 Full name :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.3 Full name :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
02. Personal Address :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
(Any change in the address should be immediately informed)
03. Calling letters for the interviews should be posted to :––––––.
(In English block capitals)
(In Sinhala/Tamil) .................................
04. Sex : Male
Female
(Male 01, Female 02)
05. Medium of interview :
Sinhala and English 1
Tamil and English 2
06. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :––––––––––––.
07. National Identity Card Number :
08. Date of birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––.
8.1 Age as at the closing date :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
09. (i) Vocational and other qualifications :––––––––––––.
(ii) Highest qualification achieved in second language :––––.
(iii) Highest qualification achieved in first language :––––––.
(If at G . C. E. (O/L) (A/L) the relevant year and the
grades (credits/distinctions) should be indicated)
(iv) (i) Degree qualifications :
Degree Subjects Grades/Class Year University
(ii) Post graduate qualifications :
Post graduate degree Year awarded University
(v) Experience in Legal Profession :––––––––––––.
10. Have you been convicted before a court of Law :––––––––––.
Yes/No
If yes, provide relevant details :––––––––––––.
11. Attestation of the applicant :
(a) I hereby solemnly and respectfully declare that the
particulars furnished by me in this application are true
and accurate to the best of my knowledge.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
788
(b) I am aware that I am disqualified for recruitment if this
declaration made by myself is proven to be inaccurate and
that I will be subject to dismissal if so proven after
recruitment.
––––––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––––. Applicant's Signature.
12. (i) Attestation of the Applicant's Signature :
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. who
submit this application, is personally known to me and the above
signature was placed in my presence on .........May, 2013.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Full name of the attester :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
12. (ii) Attestation of the Head of the Department :
I certify that, I examined all the particulars furnished, that they
are accurate and that his/her peformance, attendance and conduct
are satisfactory. He/She can/cannot be released from service if
selected for this post by the structured interview.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
04–856
COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT
TO  CLASS  III  OF  THE  SRI  LANKA  EDUCATION
ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE  ON THE  BASIS  OF
MERIT  AND  SENIORITY
By order of the Public Service Commission– 2012 (2013)
APPLICATIONS are called on the direction of the Public Service
Commission for the competitive examination for recruitment of
officers in Grade I of the Sri Lanka Principals’ Service to Class III
of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service on the basis of
merit and seniority in order to fill existing vacancies in the Class III
of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service. The applications
prepared in accordance with the model form attached at the end of
this notice, should be sent under registered cover to reach the
Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign
Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations, Pelawatte,
Battaramulla. The top left hand corner of the envelope should
clearly carry the words "The Competitive Examination for
Recruitment to Class III of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative
Service on the Basis of Merit and Seniority". Further, the name of
the examination should be written in Sinhala applications in addition
to Sinhala in English and in Tamil applications in addition to Tamil
in English.
Closing date for applications.- 27.05.2013.
Note.– It will not be possible to consider complaints to the
effect that an application or documents connected therewith
were lost or delayed in the post. Any loss that may result by
delaying application to the last date will have to be borne by
the applicant.
01. The Method of Recruitment to the Service :
(a) Recruitment will be made by considering the order of total
marks obtained for seniority and aptitude test. The carder
and the date of appointment will take effect shall be decided
by the Public Service Commission. The Public Service
Commission has the rights to fill all or certain number of
vacancies.
(b) In case any candidate called for the interview has not
fulfilled required qualifications, the next candidate in the
merit list will be called for the interview.
02.Conditions of Employment in the Service :
(i) Subject to the conditions set out in the minutes of the Sri
Lanka Education Administrative Service published in the
Gazette Extra-ordinary  of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1225/32 dated 01.03.2002
and the amendments made thereafter, and subject to the
general conditions governing appointments to the public
service, the selected candidates will be appointed to Class
III of the service.
(ii) This post is permanent and pensionable. Those who
selected should contribute to Widows’/Widowers’ and
Orphans’ Pension (W&OP).
(iii) The appointment is subject to a probationary period of
one year.
(iv) In terms of directions of the Public Administrative
Circular 7/2007 and the circulars thereof, the level of
proficiency in respect of the other languages should be
obtained within 05 years. The officers who joined the
service in a language other than an official language should
obtain proficiency in one official language within 03 years;
proficiency in the other official language should be
obtained within six (06) years.
(v) This appointment is subject to the procedural rules of
the Public Service Commission, the service minutes of
the Sri Lanka Education Administration Service and the
conditions in the amendments therein and the circulars
already issued with regard to the government service.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
789
03. Salary Scale. – This post is entitled to the monthly
consolidated salary scale SL-1-2006 Rs. 22,935 – 10 x 645 - 8 x 790
-17 x 1050-Rs.53,555. Salaries will be paid in terms of the Public
Administrative Circular No. 06/2006.
04. Qualifications.– Subject to the provisions of the notes given
at the end of this section, an officer who is currently in the service
and who has fulfilled the following requirements is qualified to sit
for the examination (Aptitude Test) for appointment on the basis
of Merit and Seniority :–
(i) A permanent officer in the Sri Lanka Principals’ Service
having a service period of minimum 3 years in Grade I.
(ii) 3 year service period is considered as at the closing date of
applications.
(iii) All applicants should have accomplished a satisfactory
service period.
Note.- Only an officer who has duly obtained all the salary
increments within the period of five (5) years immediately
preceding the closing date for applications and who has
not been subject to any punishment on disciplinary
grounds (except warnings) during that period, is considered
to be having satisfactory service period. Any officer who
has been interdicted from service as at the closing date for
applications is not qualified for applying for this
examination. The candidates are subject to the rules and
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations in respect of the conduct of the examination.
In the event of violation of those rules, the candidates
will be subject to any punishment determined by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
05. Age Limit.- Age limit will not be taken into consideration for
the recruitment of officers in Grade 1 of the Sri Lanka Principals’
Service to Class III of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service
on the basis of merit and seniority.
06. Physical Suitability :
(a) All candidates should possess a moral character and be in
sound health.
(b) The appointees are bound to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
07. Other Qualifications :
(i) The candidates should be Sri Lankan citizens ;
(ii) The candidates should possess an excellent character ;
(iii) All the requirements for the recruitment to the post should
have been satisfied as at the closing date for application.
08. 1 Written Examination :
8.1.1 Aptitude Test.- This is one hour paper held by the
Commissioner General of  Examinations. (50 Marks)
8.1.2 Syllabus.– The examination includes questions on
Fundamentals of Education and related activities on
productivity expected from education and questions
of having and employing servants in order to obtain
the maximum advantage on behalf of organizations
including schools and education institutions. (All the
questions should be answered)
8.2 Method of giving marks for seniority and experience :
(i) Seniority.– Apart from the 3 year minimum service period,
rest of the years of satisfactory service period will be
taken into consideration when giving marks. 8 marks will
be given for each year and 2 marks for 3 months for a
service period less than one year. (100 Marks Maximum)
8.3 Interview :
(i) In accordance with the ranking of total marks obtained
for Seniority and Aptitude Test, the required number of
candidates will be called for the interview for examining
qualifications to fill the vacancies.
(ii) In the event of any vacancies were to occur for the reason
a candidate or a number of candidates not fulfilling
stipulated requirements, such vacancies shall be filled
from the candidates next in the schedule according to the
ranking of marks in the merit list.
(iii)  If more than one candidate has scored identical marks,
the Public Service   Commission will make a decision in
this regard.
(iv) This interview is held to examine appropriateness of
applicants by an Interview Board appointed by the Public
Service Commission and no marks will be given.
09. Examination Conditions :
(i) The examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and
English languages. Any candidate can face the examination
in one language medium according to his/her preference.
No candidate will be permitted to change the medium of
language mentioned in the application form.
(ii) The examination fee is Rs. 1,000. A margin of the receipt
obtained in applicant’s name having paid the examination
fee at any post office in the island to be credited to
Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General
of Examinations, should be firmly pasted to the place
specified in the application form. It is useful to retain a
copy of the receipt with you.
(iii) For no reason will these examination fees be refunded.
(iv) This examination is held in Colombo and the date of the
examination will be notified later.
(v) Incomplete applications will be rejected without any
notice.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
790
Note:  Admission to the examination hall will not be permitted
without the admission card. Only the admission card
with the signature of the candidate certified has to be
presented to the officer in charge of the examination hall
on the day the examination commences. The issue of an
Admission Card to a candidate should not be regarded as
an acceptance of the candidate’s suitability to appear for
the Examination.
(vi) The application form should be prepared on A4 paper of
the size 22-29 cm. Headings 01 to 02 should be on the
first page, headings 03 to 09 on the second page and the
balance on the third page. The relevant particulars should
be entered clearly in the candidate’s own handwriting.
Applications which do not conform to the model
application form and incomplete applications will be
rejected without notice. It would be advisable to retain a
copy of the application. The candidate has to ascertain
whether the application completed is in conformity with
the model application form. It is repeated that if there is
no conformity, the application will be rejected.
(vii) The receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
Immediately after the issuance of admissions to the
applicants, a newspaper notice will be published. Any
applicant who does not receive the admission card even
after two or three days after the publication of the notice
should intimate it to the Department of Examinations in
the manner set out in the notice. It is advisable to send
your request to the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka
while retaining a copy of the same with you, enclosing a
copy of the application form and the receipt of the
payment made, the receipt of registration of the letter
and a fax number to send the admission, if you reside
outside Colombo.
(viii) The Commissioner General of Examinations has the
power, with the approval of   the Public Service
Commission, to either postpone or cancel the examination.
(ix) Candidates would be subject to the rules and regulations
enacted by the Commissioner General of Examinations in
respect of the conduct of the examinations. If these rules
are violated, candidates are bound to undergo any
punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
(x) The Identity of the Candidate. –  All candidates should
establish their identity to the satisfaction of the head of
the examination hall. Only one of the following documents
will be accepted for this purpose :–
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the
Department for the Registration of Persons,
(ii) A valid Passport,
(iii) A valid Driving License.
N.B:- ( a) No document or copy thereof should be annexed
to the application ;
(b) The applications of candidates who fail to produce
documents when requested to do so, will not be
considered.
Officers in the Public Service/ Provincial Public Service / Public
Corporations should forward their applications through the heads
of their institutions. It is essential that each candidate should get
his/her signature certified before appearing for the examination. A
candidate appearing for the examination through an institution
should get the signature certified by the head of that institution as
well. Candidates who do not fall in to this category should get the
signature certified by one of the following: A Head/ retired Head of
a government school; the GramaNiladhari of the Division; a Justice
of the Peace; a Commissioner of Oaths; an Attorney-at-Law; a
Notary Public; a Commissioned Officer of the forces; a staff officer
in a permanent post in the public or local government service who
earns an annual consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360 or more; the
Viharadhipathi of a Buddhist temple; a Nayaka Priest; a member of
the clergy of high standard in charge of a place of worship of
another faith.
10. The procedural rules of the Public Service Commission,
Circulars issued from time to time governing the Public Service and
the conditions of the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Education
Administrative Service with its amendments are applicable to this
post.
11.  The final decision on any matter not covered in this notice
rests with the Public Service Commission.
S. M. G
OTABHAYA JAY ARA TNE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
MODEL APPLICA TION
(Office use only)
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO CLASS III OF THE
SRI LANKA EDUCA TION ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE ON THE BASIS OF
SENIORITY AND MERIT -2012(2013)
Medium of language for the examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4 (write the relevant number in the cage)
01. (i) Name with Initials, with initials at the end (in English
Block Capital) :–––––––––––.
E.g. SILVA, G .A

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
791
(ii) Names denoted by Initials :–––––––––––.
(iii) Name in Full (In English Block Letters) :–––––––––––.
02. (i) Current Service Station and Official Address (In English
Block Letters) :–––––––––––.
(ii) Private Address (In English Block Letters) :––––––––––.
(iii) Address to which Admission Card should be sent (In
English Block Letters) :–––––––––––.
03. (i) Gender -
Male - 0
Female - 1 (write the relevant number in the cage)
(ii) Ethnic Group -
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2 (write the relevant number in
Indian Tamil - 3  the cage)
Muslim - 4
Other - 5
(iii) National Identity Card No.  :
04. (i) Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(ii) Age as at 27.05.2013 :
Years :   Months :  Days :
(iii) Civil Status :
Single - 1
Married - 2 (write the relevant number in the cage)
05. Service Particulars –
(i) Date of first appointment and designation :––––––––––.
(ii) Provincial / Zonal Education Office to which you belong
at present :––––––––––.
(iii) Date of appointment to Grade 1 of the Principals’ Service
:––––––––––.
06. Educational Qualifications :––––––––––.
07. Professional Qualifications :––––––––––.
08. Details of training courses attended :––––––––––.
09. Details of any punishment (except warnings) received within
immediate five years before the closing date of applications  :
––––––––––.
10. (i) Have you obtained all the salary increments within the
immediate five years before the closing date of
applications? :––––––––––.
(ii) If not why :––––––––––.
11. If any disciplinary inquiry is being conducted against you, its
present situation :––––––––––.
12. Details of no-pay leave and half pay leave taken during the last
five years :––––––––––.
I hereby declare that the details provided in this application are
true and that I am qualified for consideration for the promotion to
the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service on the basis of
merit and seniority as per the details given above. Further, I do
hereby declare that I am abided by the rules and regulations imposed
by the Commissioner General of Examinations on the conduct of
the examination.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
Secretary,
Ministry of Education
Having referred the personal file, I certify that the service
particulars from No. 05 to 12 are accurate. Further, I do hereby
certify that the receipt obtained by making a payment of Rs. 1,000
is affixed hereto.
––––––––––––––,
Zonal/Provincial Director of Education/
Provincial Education Secretary.
Date :––––––––––.
Paste the receipt obtained by making a payment of Rs. 1,000
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt with you)
04-715/1
–––––––––––––––
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS  III  OF  THE  SRI  LANKA
EDUCATION  ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE
By Order of the Public Service Commission - 2012(2013)
APPLICATIONS are called, on the direction of the Public Service
Commission, from the following suitable officers for the competitive
examination to fill existing vacancies in Class III of the Education
Administrative Service. Applications prepared according to the
model format given at the end of this notification should be forwarded
on or before the date given below to the Commissioner General of
Examinations, Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, Pellawatte, Battaramulla
under registered cover. The top left hand corner of the envelope
should clearly carry the words "Open Competitive Examination

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
792
for Recruitment to Class III of the Sri Lanka Education
Administrative Service". Further, the name of the Examination should
be given in applications in Sinhala in English in addition, and in
applications in Tamil in English in addition.
The closing date for applications.– 27.05.2013.
Note.- It will not be possible to consider complaints to the
effect that an application or documents connected
therewith were lost or delayed in the post. Any loss that
may result by delaying application to the last date will
have to be borne by the applicant.
01. The Methodology of Recruitment to the Service :
(a) Selection for appointment will be made on the basis of
sequence of higher total marks  having not less than 40%
for each subject at the written examination and after an
interview conducted by an Interview Board appointed by
the Public Service Commission to examine whether the
required qualifications are satisfied. The effective date of
the appointment and the number of officers appointed will
be decided by the Public Service Commission. The Public
Service Commission has the power to fill a certain number
of vacancies or all the vacancies.
(b) In the event that a candidate summoned for the interview
to verify qualifications, not satisfying the necessary
qualifications, the candidate next in sequence of marks
scored will be summoned for the interview to verify
qualifications.
(c) Selections for appointment will be made from those who
have appeared for Part I and II of the Examination, according
to the highest marks scored when Part I and Part II of the
Examination are taken together. If more than one candidate
has scored equal marks, the Public Service Commission
will take a decision on it.
02. Conditions of employment in the service :
(i) Subject to the conditions set out in the Minute of the Sri
Lanka Education Administrative Service published in the
Gazette Extra-ordinary  of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1225/32 dated 01.03.2002 and
the amendments made thereafter, and subject to the general
condition governing appointments to the government
service, the selected candidates will be appointed to Class
III of the service.
(ii) This post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions
have to be paid for the Widows’/Widowers’ and Orphans’
Pension (W&OP).
(iii) Officers appointed to this post are subject to a probation
period of three (03) years. During this three year period
the First Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed.
(iv) In accordance with the provisions of Public Administrative
Circular 7/2007(II) and the Circulars thereof, the level of
proficiency in respect of the other language should be
obtained within 05 years. Officers who joined the service
in a language other than an official language should obtain
proficiency in one official language within 03 years;
proficiency in the other official language should be obtained
within six (06) years. The proficiency in the second official
language belonging to Part 1 should be obtained.
(v) The procedural rules of the Public Service Commission,
Circulars issued from time to time governing the Public
Service and the conditions of the Service Minute of the Sri
Lanka Education Administrative Service with its
amendments are applicable to this post.
03. Salary Scale.– This post is entitled to the salary scale SL-1-
2006  Rs. 22,935 – 10 x 645 - 8 x 790 - 17 x 1,050-53,555 (monthly)
in terms of the Public Administrative Salary Circular No. 6/2006.
04.Educational Qualifications .– Should have a degree from a
recognized university. In the alternative, should have been successful
in a professional or other examination which the Public Service
Commission considers to be at least equivalent thereto.
05.Age Limit.– Should be not less than 22 years of age or more
than 30 years on the last day for the receipt of applications.
06.Physical Suitability.– All candidates should be physically and
mentally fit :
(i) to serve in any part of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) to perform the duties attached to the post.
07. Other Qualifications :
(i) Candidates should be Citizens of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Candidates should possess an excellent character.
(iii) By the last date for the calling of applications, all
qualifications required for recruitment   to the post should
have been satisfied in every respect by the date given in
the Gazette for the satisfaction of such qualifications.
(iv) No one is permitted to appear for this examination more
than three times.
08 08.1 Written Examination :
8.1.1 This examination will be conducted by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
8.1.2 Syllabus: This examination will be conducted in two
parts, Part I and Part II. Only those who score a
minimum of 40% of the marks in each of the papers in
Part I will qualify to appear for Part II of the
examination. Candidates who qualify in Part I will be
informed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
the date on which Part II of the examination will be
held. To succeed in Part 11 of the examination a

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
793
minimum of 40% of the marks should be scored in each
of the papers.
Part 1.– will consist of two question papers as follows :
(i) Comprehension -100 marks- Time 1 ½  hours (Subject
No: 01)
The candidate will be offered several short sentences. In
respect of some of these the candidate will be presented
with several alternative statements. One of these will fit
well with the matter in the sentence. The candidate will
be instructed to select the most appropriate statement.
The question will be presented with a view to ascertain
the way the candidate understands the meaning of these
short sentences. This is a question paper consisting of
compulsory questions (all the questions have to be
answered)
(ii) Intelligence Test – 100 marks - 1 hour paper (Subject
No: 02)
A question paper prepared to ascertain the candidate’s
logical strength. This will consist of 50 multiple choice
questions and questions calling for short answers. (All
the questions should be answered) Pass mark is 50 for
each subject.
Part 11.– will consist of two question papers as follows:
(i) General Knowledge -150 marks - 03 hour question paper
(Subject No. 03)
A question paper prepared to ascertain the knowledge of
the candidate on his living and working environment
including Sri Lanka’s political, social, cultural and
economic environment. The candidate should also have
an awareness of national and international matters of
contemporary    importance and also about scientific and
technological developments. This is a paper with
structured essay type questions. It is compulsory to
answer all the questions.
(ii) Essay- 100 marks – 3 hour question paper (Subject
No: 04)
The candidate is expected to write 03 essays on 03 topics
selected from various subjects. These are not related to a
specific field of study. They have been designed to
ascertain the candidate’s general knowledge and
intelligence, general thinking and the ability to express
ideas. The quality of the essays will be judged in terms of
the creativity and imaginative ability in respect of the
subject as well as the manner of presentation.
In Part II the pass mark for each subject is 40
8.2 Interview :
(i) Those who have scored the most marks in written
examinations will be summoned, in sequence according
to the marks scored in a number sufficient to fill the
number of vacancies, to an interview for a verification
of qualifications.
(ii) The interview will be held to examine whether the
qualifications in the notification published in relation
to the process of recruitment have been satisfied and
to check physical suitability. An interview board
appointed by the Public Service Commission will
examine the qualifications.
9. Examination Conditions :
(i) The examination will be conducted in the Sinhala, Tamil
and English media .A candidate can appear for the
examination in one language of his/her choice. All
question papers have to be answered in the same
medium. A candidate will not be permitted to change
the medium for the examination given in his/her
application.
(ii) The examination fee for Part I is Rs.600. The
examination fee can be paid at any post office in the
island to the credit of Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the
Commissioner General of Examinations. A margin of
the receipt obtained in the candidate’s own name should
be firmly pasted to the place specified in the
application form. It would be advisable to retain a
photocopy of this receipt. The examination fee for
Part II is Rs.400/-. The manner of making payment for
Part II will be notified by the Commissioner General
of Examinations to the candidates who qualify to sit
for that part.
(iii) For no reason will the payment made for the
examination be refunded.
(iv) This examination will be held in Colombo. The date of
the examination will be notified later.
(v) Incomplete applications will be rejected without notice.
Note.–   Entry into the examination hall will not be
permitted without an admission card. Only the
admission card with the signature of the candidate
certified has to be presented to the officer in charge
of the examination hall on the day the examination
commences. The issue of an admission card for the
examination to a candidate should not be taken as
an acknowledgement that the candidate has satisfied
the qualifications to appear for the examination.
(vi) The application should be prepared on A4 paper of
size 22-29 cm. Headings 01 to 02 should be entered on
the first page, 03 to 04 on the second page and the rest

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
794
on page three and four. The relevant particulars should
be entered in the candidate’s own handwriting very
clearly. Applications which do not conform to the model
application form and incomplete applications will be
rejected without notice. It would be advisable to retain
a copy of the application. Further, the candidate should
satisfy himself/herself that the completed application
conforms to the model application. It is again stressed
that the application will be rejected if there is no such
conformity. The model application form which
accompanies this notice should be adhered to.
(vii) While applications will not be acknowledged, as soon
as admission cards are issued to candidates, a notice
will be published in the newspapers. If the admission
card is not received even after 2 to 3 days from the
publication of the notice, this should be brought to the
notice of the Commissioner General of Examinations
in the manner stated in the notice. It is advisable to
send your request to the Department of Examinations,
Sri Lanka while retaining a copy of the same with you,
enclosing a certified copy of the application form and
the receipt of registration and a fax number to send the
admission, if you reside out of Colombo.
(viii) The Commissioner General of Examinations has the
power, with the approval of the Public Service
Commission, to either postpone or cancel the
examination.
(ix) Candidates would be subject to the rules and regulations
enacted by the Commissioner General of Examinations
in respect of the conduct of the examinations. If these
rules are violated, candidates are bound to undergo any
punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
(x) The identity of the candidate:   All candidates should
establish their identity to the satisfaction of the head
of the examination hall. Only one of the following
documents will be accepted for this purpose.
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the
Department for the Registration of Persons.
(ii) A valid Passport
(iii) A valid Driving License
N.B:-(a) No document or copy thereof should be annexed
to the application.
(b) The applications of candidates who fail to produce
documents when requested to do  so will not be
considered.
(xi) If it is revealed that a candidate does not possess the
required qualifications, the candidature can be annulled
at any stage before, during or after the examination. If
it comes to light that some fact presented is incorrect
after selection for the post or if some material fact has
been willfully suppressed, the person in question may
be dismissed from the service.
Officers in the Public Service/ Provincial Public Service / Public
Corporations should forward their applications through the heads
of their institutions. It is essential that each candidate should get
his/her signature certified before appearing for the examination. A
candidate appearing for the examination through an institution
should get the signature certified by the head of that institution as
well. Candidates who do not fall in to this category should get the
signature certified by one of the following: A head/ retired head of a
government school; the Grama Niladhari of the Division; a Justice
of the Peace; a Commissioner of Oaths; an Attorney-at-Law; a
Notary Public; a Commissioned Officer of the forces; a staff officer
in a permanent post in the public or local government service who
earns an annual consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360/- or more; the
Viharadhipathi of a Buddhist temple; a Nayaka Priest; a member of
the clergy of high standard in charge of a place of worship of
another faith.
10.   The final decision on any matter not covered in this notice
rests with the Public Service Commission.
S. M. G
OTABHAYA JAY ARA TNE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
MODEL APPLICA TION
(Only for office use)
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT TO CLASS III
(GENERAL CADRE) OF THE SRI LANKA EDUCA TION ADMINISTRA TIVE
SERVICE  -2012(2013)
Medium of language for the examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4 (write the relevant number in the cage)
1.0  Name :
1.1 Name with Initials, with initials at the end (in English
Block Letters) :–––––––––––.
E.g. SILVA, G .A
1.2 Gender -
Male - 0
Female - 1
(write the relevant number in the cage)
1.3 Name in full (in ENglish block letters) :–––––––––––.
1.4 Name in full (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
795
1.5 National Identity Card No. :
2.0 Permanent address (in English block letters) :
2.1 Permanent address (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
2.2 Address to which the Admission Card should be posted
(in English blocka letters) :–––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Ethnic Group
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2
Indian Tamil - 3
Muslim - 4 (write the relevant number in the cage)
Other - 5
3.2 Civil Status
Unmarried - 1
Married - 2
(write the relevant number in the cage)
3.3 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.4 Age as at 27.05.2013 :
Years :   Months :  Days :
4.0 The medium of language in which the qualifying examination
for this post was passed :––––––––––––.
5.0 Educational Qualification :
5.1 The date on which the degree or other qualifications were
obtained  :––––––––––––.
(Read carefully 8 (b) of the Gazette Notification)
5.2 University/Institution :––––––––––––.
5.3 Registration number of the university :––––––––––––.
5.4 External/Internal :––––––––––––.
5.5 Degree:––––––––––––.
5.6 Subjects :––––––––––––.
5.7 Class :––––––––––––.
5.8 Upper/Lower :––––––––––––.
5.9 Index No :––––––––––––.
5.10 Medium of language in which you faced the examination
:––––––––––––.
6.0 Mention whether you sat for the examination for recruitment
to Class III of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service
held in 2002, 2005, 2010 :––––––––––––.
7.0 Examination Fees :
Paste here properly the receipt for examination fees
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt with you)
8.0 I hereby declare that the particulars given in this application
are, to my knowledge and belief true and that receipt bearing
no: ………….. and dated ………….. for the payment of
examination fees is affixed hereto. Further, I agree to act in
accordance with the examination rules and regulations and to
abide by any decision to annul my candidature either before or
during the examination. I also state that I shall be subject to the
rules and regulations that the Commissioner General of
Examinations enacts in relation to the conduct of the
examination. I am also aware that, if it appears even after I am
selected for this post that I am unsuitable for it, I am liable to
be dismissed from service.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
Attestation of Signature
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ………………………………
residing at…………………………………………………….who
has signed above is known to me personally and that he/she placed
the signature in my presence.
––––––––––––,
(Signature of the Attestor).
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
04-715/2
–––––––––––––––––
LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS  III  OF  THE  SRI  LANKA
EDUCATION  ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE  BY ORDER
OF  THE  PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION –
2012(2013)
APPLICATIONS are called, on a direction of the Public Service
Commission,from the following suitable officers for the limited
competitive examination to fill Existing vacancies in Class III of the
Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service.Applications prepared
according to the model format given at the end of this notification
should be forwarded on or before the date given below to the
Commissioner General of Examinations, Organizations and Foreign
Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations,Sri Lanka,
Pellawatte, Battaramulla under registered cover. The top left hand
corner of the envelope should clearly carry the words "Limited
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Class III of the Sri
Lanka Education Administrative Service". Further, the name of the
Examination should be given in applications in Sinhala in English in
addition, and in applications in Tamil in English in addition.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
796
The closing date for applications.– 27.05.2013
Note-It will not be possible to consider complaints to the
effect that an application or documents connected
therewith were lost or delayed in the post. Any loss that
may result by delaying application to the last date will
have to be borne by the applicant.
01. Method of Recruitment to the Service :
(a) Selection for appointment will be made on the basis of
the sequence of higher total marks  having not less than
40% for each subject at the written examination and
after an interview conducted by an Interview Board
appointed by the Public Service Commission to examine
whether the required qualifications are satisfied. The
effective date of the appointment and the number of
officers appointed will be decided by the Public Service
Commission. The Public Service Commission has the
power to fill a certain number of vacancies or all the
vacancies.
(b) In the event that a candidate summoned for the interview
to verify qualifications, not satisfying the necessary
qualifications, the candidate next in sequence of marks
scored will be summoned for the interview to verify
qualifications.
02. Salary Scale.– This post is entitled to the salary scale SL-1-
2006 Rs. 22,935 – 10 x 645 - 8 x 790 - 17 x 1050-53,555/- (monthly)
in terms of the Public Administrative Salary Circular No 6/2006
03. Conditions of employment in the service :
(i) Subject to the conditions set out in the Minute of the Sri
Lanka Education Administrative Service published in the
Gazette Extra-ordinary  of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1225/32 dated 01.03.2002 and
the amendments made thereafter, and subject to the general
conditions governing appointments to the government
service, the selected candidates will be appointed to Class
III of the service.
(ii) The officers appointed to the post should serve according
to the need of the service in the posts of the central
government or provincial public service.
(iii) If a person who is appointed to the General Cadre has
not served as a principal of a government school for a
minimum period of 3 years prior to his appointment, he
should upon his appointment, serve a minimum period
of 3 years as a principal of a government school. Where
the period served by a person is less than 3 years, the
period that he has to serve as a principal shall be equal to
the difference between that period of service and 3 years.
(iv) This post is permanent and pensionable.Contributions
have to be paid for the Widows’/Widowers’ and Orphans’
Pension (W&OP).
(v) Officers appointed to this post are subject to a probation
period of one year.
In accordance with the provisions of Public
Administrative Circular 7/2007and the Circulars thereof,
the level of proficiency in respect of the other language
should be obtained within 05 years. Officers who joined
the service in a language other than an official language
should obtain proficiency in one official language within
03 years; proficiency in the other official language should
be obtained within six (06) years.
(vi) The procedural rules of the Public Service Commission,
Circulars issued from time to time governing the Public
Service and the conditions of the Service Minute of the
Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service with its
amendments are applicable to this post.
04. Professional Qualifications :
(a) Subject to the provisions given at the end of this section,
a teacher who serves in a government school, assisted
school or a pirivena and who has satisfied the following
qualifications is qualified to appear for this examination.
(b) (i) For posts in the General Cadre :
Should be a graduate teacher with at least 5 years of
teaching experience after graduation (or should have
passed in a professional or any other examination
considered as equivalent to a degree by the Public Service
Commission) or a graduate with a teacher training
certificate (or should have passed in a professional or
any other examination considered as equivalent to a degree
by the Public Service Commission) or a trained teacher
with at least 05 years of experience in teaching after the
training or a trained teacher who has completed 10 years
of service as a teacher.
Note:– (The service period from the date of appointment
in respect of graduate teachers appointed to the
teachers’ service on the apprenticeship basis and the
service period from the date of passing the degree in
respect of the teachers who passed the degree while
being in the service, will be taken into account for the
five year service period.)
(ii) For the posts in Special Cadre :
Should be a teacher who has at least 03 years of experience
in teaching the subject applied for and who has obtained
a degree from a recognized university in the subject applied
for or a teacher training certificate in respect of the subject
applied for (or should have passed in a professional or
any other examination considered as equivalent to the
degree by the Public Service Commission).
Note.– Also a candidate who has a teaching appointment
in any of the fields such as Dancing, Oriental Music,
Western Music, Handicraft, Physical Education, Arts,
Home Science, Special Education and Pirivena and

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
797
who has a teaching experience of not less than 05
years in the relevant subject or field and who has
passed the Senior School Certificate Examination or
the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in 6 subjects including
Mathematics or Arithmetic and Sinhala/Tamil language
in not more than two sittings, is considered to be
qualified to appear for the examination.
05. Physical Suitability. – All candidates should be physically
and mentally fit :
(i) to serve in any part of Sri Lanka
(ii) to perform the duties attached to the post.
06. Age Limit.– As at the last date of the month preceding the
month in which the closing date of receiving applications falls, the
age of the applicant should not be less than 25 years and not more
than 50 years.
07. Other Qualifications :
(i) Candidates should be Citizens of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Candidates should possess an excellent character .
(iii) By the last date for the calling of appl ications, all
qualifications required for recruitment to the post should
have been satisfied in every respect by the date given in
the Gazette for the satisfaction of such qualifications.
(iv) No one is permitted to appear for the limited examination
more than seven (07) times. Further, no one is permitted
to appear for both Limited Examination and Open
Examination more than seven (07) times.
(v) No officer is qualified to appear for this examination
unless he/she possesses a satisfactory service period of
five years immediately preceding the last date for calling
applications.
(vi) The applicant is considered to be having a satisfactory
service period if he/she has not undergone any punishment
for an offence "except warnings" during this period. (no
officer is deemed to be disqualified as a result of not
obtaining salary increments only due to the failure of
passing an examination in the service or a departmental
examination.)
(vii) Any officer who has been interdicted by the last date of
calling applications is not qualified to apply for this
examination.
08. Method of Application :
(i) The Class III of the service consists of ‘General’ and
‘Special’ Cadres. In addition to the General Cadre, the
candidates can also apply for the vacancies in the fields
of the Special Cadre referred to in Paragraph iii (b) below.
A candidate can apply for the General Cadre and for
another two fields under the Special Cadre. If applying
under the Special Cadre, it is compulsory that the subject
applied for has been taken as one of the main subjects for
the degree and at least 1/3 of the total course units
(collection) taken for the degree should be relevant to the
subject applied. The qualifications required for planning
and special education subjects are given separately.
(ii) In the event that an applicant is selected for the General
Cadre and several subjects in the Special Cadre, the
decision on the subject for which the recruitment is made
rests with the Public Service Commission.
(iii) The subjects and the codes assigned to the Special Cadre
are given below. The subjects applied for and the relevant
codes shall be mentioned in the proper place in the
application form.
Code Number
(a) General Cadre 11
(b) Special Cadre
Subject Area
English 21
Mathematics 22
Science 23
Art 24
Music (Eastern) 25
Music (Western) 26
Dancing 27
Physical Education 28
Agriculture 29
Commerce 30
Handicraft 31
Home Science 32
Special Education 33
Planning 34
Arabic 35
Information Technology 36
Piriven 37
N.B.–If applied for the subject of Special Education  in
the Special Cadre of the Limited Examination, the
candidate should have been successful in one of the
following Degrees or Post Graduate Diplomas.
The Degree in Bachelor of Education offered for the education
of children with deficiencies (Special Education).
Post Graduate Diploma in Special Education
Master of Education or Master of Arts Degree in Special
Education
If applied for the subject planning in the Special Cadre, the
candidate should have obtained one of the following
Degrees and Post-Graduate Diplomas:
Should have studied Statistics as a subject for the Degree or
as an auxiliary subject area of another subject

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
798
Should have studied Mathematics as a subject for the Degree
or as an auxiliary subject area of the Degree
Should have studied Management and Planning Techniques
as a subject of the Degree or as an auxiliary subject area of
the Degree.
Should have studied the subject areas of Education Principals
and Comparative Education as a subject of the Degree or
as an auxiliary subject areas of the Degree.
Should have studied Sociology as a subject of the Degree or
as an auxiliary subject area of the Degree.
Should have studied Statistics or Research Work as a part of
an auxiliary subject of the Degree along with subjects of
Biology and Physics.
09.
09.1 Written Examination :
9.1.1 This examination will be conducted by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
9.1.2 Syllabus:
(i) Comprehension – Duration 1 ½ hours (100 Marks)
The candidate will be offered several short sentences.
In respect of some of these the candidate will be
presented with several alternative statements. One of
these will fit well with the matter in the sentence. The
candidate will be instructed to select the most
appropriate statement. The questions will be
presented with a view to ascertain the way the
candidate understands the meaning of these short
sentences. This is a question paper consisting of
compulsory questions.
(ii) Intelligence Test – 1 hour paper (100 Marks).
A question paper prepared to ascertain the candidate’s
logical strength.This will consist of 50 multiple choice
questions and questions calling for short answers. (All
the questions should be answered).
(iii) Case Study on Education Administration – Duration
2 hours (All the questions should be answered) (100
Marks)
Pass mark is 40 for each subject.
10. Interview.– The interview will be held to examine whether
the qualifications in the notification published in relation to the
process of recruitment have been satisfied and to check physical
suitability. An interview board appointed by the Public Service
Commission will examine the qualifications.
11. Examination Conditions :
(i) The examination will be conducted in the Sinhala, Tamil
and English media. A candidate can appear for the
examination in one language of his/her choice.All question
papers have to be answered in the same medium. A
candidate will not be permitted to change the medium for
the examination given in his/her application.
(ii) The examination fee is Rs.1000/- .The examination fee
can be paid at any post office in the island to the credit of
Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General
of Examinations. A margin of the receipt obtained in the
candidate’s own name should be firmly pasted to the
place specified in the application form. It would be
advisable to retain a photocopy of this receipt.
(iii) For no reason will the payment made for the examination
be refunded.
(iv) This examination will be held in Colombo.The date of the
examination will be notified later.
(v) Incomplete applications will be rejected without notice.
Note.– Entry into the examination hall will not be
permitted without an admission card. Only the
admission card with the signature of the candidate
certified has to be presented to the officer in charge of
the examination hall on the day the examination
commences.
The issue of an admission card for the examination to a
candidate should not be taken as an acknowledgement
that the candidate has satisfied the qualifications to appear
for the examination.
(vi) The application should be prepared on A4 paper of size
22-29 cm. Headings 01 to 02 should be entered on the
first page, 03 to 04 on the second page and the rest on
page three and four. The relevant particulars should be
entered in the candidate’s own handwriting very clearly.
Applications which do not conform to the model
application form and incomplete applications will be
rejected without notice. It would be advisable to retain a
copy of the application. Further, the candidate should
satisfy himself/herself that the completed application
conforms to the model application. It is again stressed
that the application will be rejected if there is no such
conformity.
(vii) While the receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged, as soon as admission cards are issued to
candidates, a notice will be published in the newspapers.
If the admission card is not received even after 2 to 3
days from the publication of the notice, this should be
brought to the notice of the Commissioner General of
Examinations in the manner stated in the notice. It is
advisable to send your request to the Department of
Examinations, Sri Lanka while retaining a copy of the

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
799
same with you, enclosing a certified copy of the
application form and the receipt of registration and a fax
number to send the admission, if you reside out of
Colombo.
(viii) The Commissioner General of Examinations has the
power, with the approval of the Public Service
Commission, to either postpone or cancel the examination.
(ix) Candidates would be subject to the rules and regulations
enacted by the Commissioner General of Examinations in
respect of the conduct of the examinations. If these rules
are violated, candidates are bound to undergo any
punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
(x) The identity of the candidate. – All candidates should
establish their identity to the satisfaction of the head of
the examination hall. Only one of the following documents
will be accepted for this purpose :–
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the
Department for the Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid Passport ;
(iii) A valid Driving License.
N.B.– (a) No document or copy thereof should be annexed
to the application.
(b) The applications of candidates who fail to produce
documents when requested to do so will not be
considered.
(xi) If it is revealed that a candidate does not possess the
required qualifications, the candidature can be annulled at
any stage before, during or after the examination. If it
comes to light that some fact presented is incorrect after
selection for the post or if some material fact has been
willfully suppressed, the person in question may be
dismissed from the service.
Officers in the Public Service/ Provincial Public Service / Public
Corporations should forward their applications through the heads
of their institutions. It is essential that each candidate should get
his/her signature certified before appearing for the examination.
A candidate appearing for the examination through an institution
should get the signature certified by the head of that institution as
well. Candidates who do not fall in to this category should get the
signature certified by one of the following:
A head/ retired head of a government school; The GramaNiladhari
of the Division; a Justice of the Peace; a Commissioner of Oaths;
an Attorney-at-Law; a Notary Public; a Commissioned Officer
of the forces; a staff officer in a permanent post in the public or
Local Government Service who earns an annual consolidated
salary of Rs. 240,360 or more; the Viharadhipathi of a Buddhist
temple; a Nayaka Priest; a member of the clergy of high standard
in-charge of a place of worship of another faith.
10. The final decision on any matter not covered in this notice
rests with the Public Service Commission.
S. M. G
OTABHAY A JAY ARATNE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Model   Application
(only for office use)
LIMITED COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS III (GENERAL/SPECIAL) OF
THE  SRI  LANKA EDUCATION  ADMINISTRATIVE
SERVICE – 2012(2013)
(Should be produced to the Zonal Director of Education in three
copies)
Medium of language for the examination :
Sinhala  - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4 (write the relevant number in the cage.)
‘Cadre’ for the examination :
General Cadre - 1
Special Cadre - 2
Both - 3  (write the relevant number in the cage.)
If Cadre applied for is Special Cadre, indicate the code of the
subject area in the table given below (According to the Gazette
Notification) :–
Cadre Subject area Code No.
General
Special
Special
1.0 Name:
1.1 Name with initials, with initials at the end (in English
Block Letters) :––––––––––.
E.g.–  SILV A, G.A
1.2 Gender :
Male – 0
Female – 1   (write the relevant number in the cage.)
1.3 Name in Full (in English Block Letters) :––––––––––.
1.4 Name in Full (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
800
1.5 National Identity Card No. :
2.0 Permanent Address (in English Block Letters)  :––––––––––.
2.1 Official Address (in English Block Letters) :––––––––––.
2.2 Permanent Address (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
2.3 Address to which the Admission Card should be posted
(in English Block Letters) :––––––––––.
3.0
3.1 Ethnic Group :
Sinhala 1
Tamil 2
Indian Tamil 3
Muslim 4
Other 5 (write the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Civil Status :
Unmarried - 1
Married - 2 (write the relevant number in the cage)
3.3 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.4 Age as at 27.05.2013 :
Years :   Months :  Days :
4.0 Educational Qualification :
(a) (i) Year of passing the degree :–––––––––––.
(ii) Subjects for the degree :–––––––––––.
(iii) University/Institution :–––––––––––.
(iv) External/Internal :–––––––––––.
(b) (i) Year of passing the post graduate degree :––––––––––.
  (ii) Subjects for the degree :–––––––––––.
(iii) University/Institution :–––––––––––.
5.0   (i) Date of first appointment to the Public Service as a teacher
:–––––––––––.
      (ii) Education Zone in which you serve now :–––––––––––.
     (iii) Period of service as at ………….2013
Years:––––––––  Months :––––––––– Days :–––––––.
6.0 (i) The year in which training as a teacher was obtained :
–––––––––––.
(ii) Name of the Training College :–––––––––––.
 (iii) Date on which the training certificate becomes valid :
–––––––––––.
(iv) Special field of training :–––––––––––.
(v) Period of experience after training as at the closing date for
applications:
Years :–––––––––  Months :–––––––– Days :––––––––.
7.0 Have you been confirmed in the present post ? :––––––––––.
8.0 The language in which the qualifying examination for entry into
the Public Service was passed :–––––––––––.
9.0 Examination Fees :
Paste here properly the receipt for examination fees
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt with you)
10.0 Number of times you sit for this examination and the open
competitive examination earlier :……………………
11.0 I hereby declare that the particulars given in this application
are, to my knowledge and belief true and that receipt bearing
No. ………….. and dated ………….. for the payment of
examination fees is affixed hereto. Further, I agree to act in
accordance with the examination rules and regulations and to
abide by any decision to annul my candidature either before
or during the examination. I also state that I shall be subject
to the rules and regulations that the Commissioner General
of Examinations enacts in relation to the conduct of the
examination. I am also aware that, if it appears even after
I am selected for this post that I am unsuitable for it, I am
liable to be dismissed from service.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
Zonal Director of Education,
I hereby certify that Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms………………………
forwarding this application serves in my school.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Principal.
(Official Seal).
Date :–––––––––––.
The Commissioner General of Examinations,
I hereby certify that Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms…… …… forwarding
this application serves in my Zone at……………… school and the
details furnished in Paragraphs 03, 04, 05, 06, 07, 08, 09 and 11 are
accurate in accordance with his/her personal file in the office.
–––––––––––––,
Zonal/Provincial Director of Education.
Date :–––––––––––.
04–715/3

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
801
INSTITUTE  OF  TECHNOLOGY  – UNIVERSITY  OF
MORATUWA
Admission to the National Diploma in Technology
Course, 2013/2014
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible candidates for admission
to the National Diploma in Technology, 3-year full time Course
conducted by the Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa.
The Course will be conducted within the University premises at
Moratuwa until it is moved to new premises of the Institute of
Technology, University of Moratuwa at Diyagama, Homagama.
General.– The National Diploma in Technology Course consists
of two years of academic study and one year of Industrial Training
and is conducted in English medium. The course is offered in the
following fields of study :
(a) Maritime Studies Courses (Set I)  :
(i) Marine Engineering Technology.
(ii) Nautical Studies and Technology.
(b) Other Fields of Courses (Set II) :
(i) Chemical Engineering Technology.
(ii) Civil Engineering Technology.
(iii) El ectrical Engineering Technology.
(iv) Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering
Technology.
(v) Mechanical Engineering Technology.
(vi) Polymer Technology.
(vii) T extile and Clothing Technology.
Eligibility :
2.1 Age :
(a) Applicants should be below 24 years of age on
31.12.2012.
(b) Applicants below 20 years of age on 31.12.2012 will
be given preference for admission to the Marine
Engineering Technology and Nautical Studies and
Technology Courses. A special medical test and
interview would also be conducted for selection of
students to Marine Engineering and Nautical Studies
Courses.
(c) Those who are fulltime registered students of any
University under the UGC (except the Open University
of Sri Lanka) or Higher Educational Institute under the
Ministry of Higher Education are not eligible to apply.
2.2 Educational Qualifications :
Applicants should have obtained passes in any three (03) of the
following subjects :–
(i) Physics,
(ii) Chemistry,
(iii) Combined Mathematics,
(iv) Advanced Mathematics.
at one and the same sitting of a G . C. E. (A/L) Examination conducted
by the Commissioner General of Examinations, Sri Lanka in 2010
or 2011or 2012.
3. Selection Criteria :
3.1 Admission to the Course :
The selection of students for admission will be based on
the performance at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination and the
aptitude test to be conducted by the Institute of
Technology, University of Moratuwa.
From those who pass the aptitude test, selections will be
done in the merit order of G.C.E. (A/L) results, i.e., in the
order of z-scores. In the selection, 40% merit and 60%
district quota will be applied.
3.2 Field of Study :
Aptitude test marks together with the applicant’s order
of preference for the field of study as indicated in the
field preference will be considered in the allocation of the
field of study.
Application Procedure :
4.1 Application Form :
(i) Application should be made according to the
Specimen Form given in this Gazette Notification.
Specimen application will also be available in the
following Web address :
http://www.mrt.ac.lk/itum
(ii) Applications should be forwarded under
Registered Post  marked “ NDT Admission
2013/2014 ” on the top left hand corner of the
envelope and addressed to the "Deputy Registrar,
Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa,
Katubedda, Moratuwa.
(iii) Application should reach the Deputy Registrar,
Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa
on or before the closing date for applications.
(iv) A self-addressed 9" x 4" stamped envelope
(Rs. 40 worth), should be enclosed along with the
application form.
(v) No copies or originals of the certificates should be
sent along with the application form. However,
the content of the application has to be certified as
indicated. (See cages 3, 4 and 5 in the form of
application.)

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
802
4.2 Field Preference :
(i) There are  two SETS of fields.
(ii) Applicants may apply to either Maritime Studies
(SET 1) or Other Fields (SET 2) or Both sets of
fields. The preference must be indicated if
candidate applies to both sets of fields.
(iii) SET 1 - Insert order of preference as 1 for First
preference and 2 for Second preference. This should
be completed only by the candidates who are
applying for Maritime Studies.
(iv) SET 2 - Insert order of preference as 1,2,3,4,5,6,7.
"1" for the "most preferred", "2" for the next, and
so on "7" for the least preferred.
5. (i) Application Fee.–  Application fee for SET 1 or SET 2
is Rs. 300 and SET 1 and SET 2 is Rs. 500. A receipt of
payment in favour of “ Institute of Technology,
University of Moratuwa, A/C No. 0000308280 of Bank
of Ceylon, Katubedda Branch” to the value of Rs. 300
(Rupees Three Hundred) for one set of fields of study
(Rs. 500 if applying for both sets of fields), obtained
only from any branch of the Bank of Ceylon  should
accompany each application. This application fee is non-
refundable.
(ii) Closing Date.–  The closing date of applications is
31.05.2013.
6. Aptitude Test.– Applicants, short-listed according to the
G . C. E. (A./L.) performance in Merit and District Quota will be
called for an aptitude test that will be conducted at the Institute of
Technology, University of Moratuwa.
7. Registration :
(i) Candidates selected for admission will be required to
produce the originals of the following certificates on the
date of registration :–
* G .C.E. (A/L) Certificate,
* Certificate indicating G. C. E. (A./L.) Z-Score,
* School Leaving Certificate,
* Birth Certificate,
* Affidavit in support of any changes in name
appearing in different documents/certificates.
8. Very Important :
(i) A candidate once registered for the National Diploma in
Technology Course will not be eligible for admission to
any other course in this University or in any other
University in Sri Lanka (except Open University of Sri
Lanka) or in any other Higher Educational Institute under
the Ministry of Higher Education during the tenure of the
course.
(ii) A student who has already registered in this university or
any other university in Sri Lanka (except Open University
of Sri Lanka) or in any other Higher Educational Institute
is not be eligible for applying.
Director.
Institute of Technology,
University of Moratuwa.
26th April, 2013.
For office use only
Application
No.
District
Application for (Please   9  )
1. Maritime Fields - SET 1
2. Other Fields - SET 2
[Applicants may apply for single set (Set 1 or Set 2)
or both sets (Set 01 and Set 02)]
01. Personal Details : (Please use BLOCK CAPITALS)
Name in Full :
(Leave one blank cage between names)
Name with Initials :
(Leave one blank cage between names)
Title Mr./Ms. S e x
Male/Female
Age (Years)   (Months) Date of Birth
As at 31st Date Month Year
Dec. 2012
National ID
Number
APPLICA TION FOR
ADMISSION TO THE
NATIONAL DIPLOMA
 IN TECHNOLOGY
COURSE
INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITY OF MORATUW A
ACADEMIC YEAR 2013/2014


<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
803
02. Contact Details :
Address (Residence):
(Leave one blank cage between different segments of the
address)
Telephone
Mobile
E-mail (if available)
03. Results of G. C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination :
Subjects & Details of Grades & Details
Examination obtained at the
1st Attempt 2nd Attempt 3rd Attempt
Year
Physics
Chemistry
Combined Mathematics
Advanced Mathematics
Index Number
Z-Score . .               .
Medium Sinhala/Tamil/English
(Delete whatever is inapplicable)
Results of the year to be considered for Selection
(indicate whether 2010 or 2011 or 2012)
04. School(s) attended from Year 11 to Year 13 :
Year Name & District Period of
Address of Attendance
 School From To
Year M D Year M D
11
12
13 1st Attempt
2nd Attempt
3rd Attempt
05.Certification of Results and Schools attended :
It is compulsory to certify the Results under No. 03 and
Details under No. 04 in the application by the School
Principal for the School Candidates, and by a Justice
of Peace for External Candidates.
I certify that the particulars given above by the candidate in
the cage No.3 and cage No. 4 are true and accurate according
to the Original Certificates.
Name of the Principal/Justice of the Peace :
Rev./Dr./Mr./Mrs. ................................................................
  
 Official Seal
....................... .....................
Signature Date
06. Field Preference :
Set 1 - Insert order of preference as 1 for First preference
and 2 for Second preference. This should be completed
only by the candidates who have applied for Maritime
Studies.
Set 2 - Insert order of preference as 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. ‘1’ for
the “Most Preferred”, ‘2’ for the next and so on ‘7’ for
the last preferred.
Set 1 Set 2
Maritime Fields Order Other Fields Order
Marine Engineering Chemical Engineering
Technology Technology
Nautical Studies and Civil Engineering
Technology Technology
Electrical Engineering
Technology
State Priority, if applied for Electronic and Telecomm-
both sets – 9 unication Engineering
Technology
SET 1 Mec hanical Engineering
Technology
SET 2 Polymer Technology
Textile & Clothing
Technology
Are you registered as a fulltime student
in any other University under the UGC
(other than Open University) or any
other Higher Educational Institution
under the Ministry of Education ?
(Delete whatever is inapplicable)
APPLICANT'S  DECLARATION :
(1) I declare that I am not a fulltime registered student at any
University (except Open University of Sri Lanka) or any
Higher Educational Institution under the Ministry of
Education.
Yes N o


<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
804
(2) I certify that all the particulars given by me in this
Application are true and accurate. I am aware that if the
particulars given by me in this Application are found to
be false or inaccurate prior to my admission, I will be
discontinued from the course.
(3) In the event of my being selected for admission after the
Test, I shall abide by  Statutes, By-Laws, Regulations
and the Rules of the Institute of Technology, University
of Moratuwa, in so far as they are applicable to me.
(4) I have pasted the cash deposit/ cash transfer receipt
obtained from Bank of Ceylon, drawn in favour of
“Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa -
Account No. 0000308280 of Bank of Ceylon, Katubedda,
Branch”.
(5) I also enclose a self addressed stamped envelope
(Rs. 40 worth) in size 9" x 4".
(6) I am aware that if I am found to be registered in another
University or any other Higher Educational Institution
under the Ministry of Education at the time of sitting for
the Aptitude Test for the National Diploma in Technology
Course, I will not be selected for the Course.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
Paste your Cash Deposit/Cash Transfer Original Slip here.
04-731
–––––––––––––––
FIRST  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR
OFFICERS  IN  GRADE   III OF  THE SRI  LANKA
PLANNING  SERVICE  - 2013
FIRST Efficiency Bar Examinations for officers in Grade III of the
Sri Lanka Planning Service will be held in July 2013  in Colombo by
the Commissioner General of Examinations. The closing date of
application for the Examination will be 31.05.2013. The Examination
will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English media and no
candidate will be permitted to change the medium later.
02. A specimen application form to be used in applying for the
First Efficiency Bar Examination is appended at the end of this
notification. All applicants are advised to prepare their applications
as per specimen given. Application should be prepared only in A4
size paper and item 01 to 04 should be on page 1 and the rest on
page 2. The form should be completed by the applicant in his / her
own hand writing. Further, Name of the Examination given at the
top should be written in English in addition to Sinhala in Sinhala
applications and in addition to Tamil in Tamil applications.
Applications which do not conform with the specimen application
form and those received after the closing date of applications and
incomplete applications will be rejected without prior notice. All
particulars given in the top of the specimen application should be
mentioned accurately.
03. The applications should be sent through the Head of the
Respective Department (Ex. : Through Divisional Secretary in the
case of a Divisional Secretary) by registered post to reach the
Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign
Examination Branch, Department of Examinations, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla, to reach him on or before 31.05.2013. The name of
the examination should be written on the top left corner of the
envelop containing the application. It is advisable to keep a
photocopy of the receipt with the applicant. Examination will be
conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English media and no candidate will
be permitted to change the language medium applied for. newly
recruited officers for the purpose of Official Language policy may
prepare their applications in the Official Language or in Tamil or
English in accordance with the language medium they were recruited.
 04. An Admission Card together with a copy of the time table
of the examination will be issued by the Commissioner General of
Examination to all applicants whose applications have been
accepted. Immediately after Admission Cards are dispatched to the
respective candidates, a press notice to that effect will be published
by the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka. If any candidate
does not receive his / her Admission Card and Time Table 02 or 03
days before the examination, he/ she should notify this fact in
writing immediately to the Department of Examinations. It would
be useful if you could send a certified photo copy of the application
retained by you together with the receipt for the payment of cash,
registration receipt and your letter of request with the Fax number,
if outside Colombo, in order to send your Admission Card
(i) Name of Examination :  ––––––––.
(ii) Full Name of the Applicant : ––––––––.
(iii) Complete Address : ––––––––––.
(iv) Post Office at witch the application was posted :–––.
Registered No. and Date : –––––––––.
05. Identify .– Candidates should prove their identity to the
supervisor of the examination every time they appear for a subject
in the Examination Hall. For this purpose one of the following
document only will be accepted.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner
for Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A V alid Passport.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
805
The Commissioner General of Examinations reserves
the right to cancel or reject the candidature of the
candidate who fails to produce any of the documents
mentioned above.
06. Examination Fees.–  Candidates who sit this examination
will be required to pay Examination Fees on the basis set out
below : –
Examination Fees :
(a) First sitting- No fee will be charged
(b) For the whole examination for each
 subsequent sitting Rs. 1,000.00
(c) Per subject Rs. 500.00
The relevant examination fee could be paid to the credit of
Revenue Head of the Commissioner General of Examination
No. 2003-02-13 at any Divisional Secretariat and the receipt obtained
should be securely affixed to the application form at the allotted
place so that it may not get detached. Retaining a copy of the
receipt would be useful.
07. This examinations is conducted by the Commissioner General
of Examinations and  all candidates will be required to abide by the
rules and regulations laid down by him in connection with this
examination. Rules and regulations published in Part 1 (IIA) of this
Gazette for applicants for examinations are applicable to this
examination. On the first day of the examination, admission card
with the applicants authenticated signature should be handed over
to the supervisor of the examination.
08. Duty leave should be granted by the Head of Departments
to applicants who are eligible to sit for the Examination and to
whom Admission Cards have been issued by the Commissioner
General of examinations to enable them to sit for the examination.
Admission Cards will be issued to all the applicants who have
submitted applications and issuing an Admission card to an applicant
should not be considered by him / her as  a qualification to sit for
examination.
09. Any matters not covered by these regulations will be dealt
write the discretion of the Secretary to  Ministry of Finance and
Planning.
10. In the event of any inconsistency between the notice
published in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, the notice
published in Sinhala medium shall prevail.
10. Syllabus related to the First Efficiency Bar Examinations
given below.
Syllabus of the First Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in
class III of the Sri Lanka Planning Service :
1. The First Efficiency Bar Examination will consist of the
following subjects :–
(a) Planning concepts and Methodology, Planning
Institutions - 100 marks (Sub No. 01).
(b) Economics Analysis and statistics - 100 marks (Sub
No. 02).
(c) Project Planning, Implemention,Review and
Evaluation - 100 marks (Sub No. 03).
(d) Establishment and Government Financial Regulation
- 100 marks (Sub No. 04).
(e) English Language - 100 marks (Sub No. 05).
2. An officer can sit all papers in one attempt or separately
in several attempts and should pass examination on or
before relevant period as per the provisions of the service
minute and appointment letter.
3. Each paper will be of 03 hours duration.
4. All the Questions of a  paper should be answered.
5. An applicant should obtain 40% or more marks for a
pass in each paper.
Scheme  of  Examination
Question Paper 01.– Planning Concepts and the Methodology,
Planning Institutions :
(i) National Goals and Priorities, and  policy framework and
programmes for their achievement,
(ii) Methodology for National Planning, major Problem areas
in Planning, participation of the Public, Mobilizations of
resources etc.,
(iii) Nature and source of data for national planning and
collection of data, presentation and analyses of
interpretation, field supervision and investigations,
demographic concepts , economic perspective and policy
analysis.
Question paper 02.- Economic Analysis and statistics
(i) Principles of economics with special emphasis an theories
of production and distribution,
(ii) Finance, Banking Systems, International Monetary
Systems and Trade,
(iii) Analysis of  F iscal, Monetary, Trade and Tariff policies,
(iv) Economic structure of Sri Lanka,
(v) Review of the Economy,
(vi) Assessment of technically skilled and unskilled manpower
and  other resources including foreign aid and  their
utilization,
(vii) Economics, scientific and social incidents,
(viii) Economic Analysis and Basic Statistical concepts and
methods used in planning,
(ix) Principles of benefit / cost analysis.

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
806
Question paper 03.-  Project planning, Implementation, Review
and Evaluation.
(i) Planning, identification and defining projects and
formulation of projects, selection of policies, theories
and  places estimation of technology, costs and benefits,
technical, financial and economic analysis.
(ii) Implementation and supervision of projects, proper and
timely implementation of  project programmes,
preparation of detailed operational plans and
implementation schedules, monitoring and co-ordination
of progress, control follow up action.
(iii) Evaluation of projects, Assessment of effectiveness of
projects and programmes analysis of benefits in relation
to costs.
Question paper 04.-  Establishment  and Government Financial
Regulations :
(i) Government Financial Regulations V olume 1
(Excluding Chapter X )
(b) Establishments  code : Chapters vii, ix, xi, xii, xv, xxiii,
xxv, xxvi, xxvii, xxviii, xxix, xxx, xxxi, xxxii, xxxiii, xLvii,
xLviii
Chapters I to VII in volume I of Procedural Rules of the
Public Service Commission..
(iii) Financial control of Sri Lanka :
Statutory provisions related to public management,
control of the parliament over public finance, The
consolidated fund and its function, objective of
appropriation and appropriation methods. Public revenue,
powers and functions of the Minister of Finance, powers
and functions of the treasury, warrants and impress
authority, Auditor General and his powers and functions,
public accounts committee, public expenditure committe
public enterprises committee).
(iv) Accounting officers, chief Accounting officers and
appointing accounting officers of public revenue, their
powers and functions.
(v) Planning and management of public expenditure
Identifying objectives and Tasks of the organizations,
Preparation of   annual revenue and estimates, and taking
final decisions. Effecting changes in approved expenditure
estimates.implemention of V ermon procedure
management of carders in Public Sector, supplementary
estimates.
(vi) Government procurement procedure :
Procurement of goods, services and work, composition,
appointment, powers and functions of procurement
committee and Technical valuation committee, bids
evaluation procedure, management of projects
implemented on foreign aids.
Question Paper 05.– English Language
A written test on English Language will held in order to
measure the English language skills of the applicants related
to planning, Development, Organizing and management
subjects.
P. B. J
AY ASUNDERA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo 01,
26th of April 2013.
FORM OF APPLICATION
F
IRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINA TION FOR OFFICERS IN GRADE III OF THE SRI LANKA PLANNING SER VICE – 2013
(For office use)
Medium of Examination :
(write the number in this cage.)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4 (Medium applied will not be allowed to change subsequently)
01. Name :
 1.1 Name with Initials  at the End :–––––––––––––.
(In English Block letters e.g. SILV A . B . A.)
 1.2 Full Name (Sinhala / Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
 1.3 National Identity Card  No. :

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
807
 02. Official Address :–––––––––––.
(In English Block letters) :
 2.1 Official Address (Sinhala / Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
2.2 Address to which the Admission Cards should be sent  (In English Block Letters) :–––––––––––––.
03.  3.1 Sex  :  Male - 0               Female   - 1 (Specify in the cage given)
 3.2 Date of Birth :-
Year :                            Month :                  Date :
3.3 Age as at the closing date of applications -:
 Y ears :                          Months :                    Days  :
04. Subjects offered under the Para. 11 of the gazette :
Subject Subject No.
………………………………….
…………………………………
…………………………………
…………………………………
…………………………………
05. Date of Appointment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Planning Service (Indicate the date of assumption of duties) :–––––––––––.
06. Are you an Old Entrant/New Entrant for the purposes of Official Language Policy :–––––––––––.
07. Name of the Department (name of the Divisional Secretariat in the case fo Divisional Secretariat)  :–––––––––––.
08. Whether you are sitting for the examination for the first time :–––––––––––.
09. If not examination fees paid:
(Paste the receipt securely ; keeping a copy of the receipt would be useful)
10. I declare that the foregoing particulars are true and correct and that I am entitled to sit for the examination in the langu age medium
indicated above. I agree to abide by the decisions taken by the Commissioner General of Examinations regarding the examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date  :––––––––––––.
Note.– The applicant must sign before his/her Head of the Department, or the officer authorized to sign on his / her behalf or his/
her Provincial Head.
ATTESTATION OF SIGNATURE
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss………………………………………………….who is an officer working in my office and
is known to me personally placed his/her signature before me on …………………………………
 –––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
808
CERTIFICA TE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEP ARTMENT
 I Certify that,
(i) the foregoing particulars were checked by me and found
and correct and ,
(ii) the applicant is eligible to sit for this examination.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
(Official frank should be placed).
Designation :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
04–838/1
–––––––––––––––––––––
SECOND EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR
OFFICERS IN GRADE  III OF THE SRI LANKA
PLANNING  SERVICE  - 2013
SECOND Efficiency Bar Examinations for officers in Grade III of
the Sri Lanka Planning Service will be held in July 2013  in Colombo,
by the Commissioner General of Examinations. The closing date of
applications for the examination will be 31.05.2013. The examination
will be conducted in Sinhalese, Tamil and English media and no
candidate will be permitted to change the medium later.
02. A specimen application form to be used in applying for the
Second Efficiency Bar examination is appended at the end of this
notification. All applicants are advised to prepare their applications
as per specimen given. Application should be prepared only in A4
size paper and item 01 to 04 should be on page 1 and the rest on
page 2. The form should be completed by the applicant in his / her
own hand writing. Further, Name of the Examination given at the
top should be written in English in addition to Sinhala in Sinhala
applications and in addition to Tamil in Tamil applications.
Applications which do not conform with the Specimen application
form and those received after the closing date of applications and
incomplete applications will be rejected without prior notice. All
particulars given in the top of the Specimen application form should
be mentioned accurately.
03. The applications should be sent through the Head of the
Respective Department (Ex. : Through Divisional Secretariat in the
case of a Divisional Secretariat) by registered post to reach the
commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign
Examination Branch, Department of Examinations, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla, to reach him on or before 31.05.2013. The name of
the examination should be written on the top left corner of the
envelop containing the application. It is advisable to keep a
photocopy of the receipt with the applicant. Examination will be
conducted in Sinhalese, Tamil and English media and no candidate
will be permitted to change the language medium applied for. Newly
recruited officers for the purpose of official Language policy may
prepare their applications in the official Language or in Tamil or
English in accordance with the language medium they were recruited.
 04. An Admission card together with a copy of the time table of
the examination will be issued by the commissioner General of
Examination to all applicants whose applications have been
accepted. Immediately after admission cards are dispatched to the
respective candidates, a press notice to that effect will be published
by the department of examinations, Sri Lanka. If any candidate
does not receive his / her Admission card and time table 2 or 3 days
before the examination, he/ she should notify this fact in writing
immediately to the Department of Examinations. It would be useful
if you could send a certified photo copy of the application retained
by you together with the receipt for the payment of cash, registration
receipt and your letter of request with the fax number, if outside
Colombo, in order to send your Admission Card :-
(i) Name of Examination :
(ii) Full name of the applicant :
(iii) Complete Address :
(iv) Post office at which the application was posted :
Registered No. and Date :
05. Identify .– Candidates should prove their identity to the
supervisor of the examination every time they appear for a subject
in the Examination Hall. For this purpose one of the following
documents only will be accepted.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner
for Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A V alid Passport.
The Commissioner General of Examinations reserves
the right to cancel or reject the candidature of a
candidate who fails to produce any of the documents
mentioned above.
06. Examination Fees.–  Candidates who sit this examination
will be required to pay examination fees on the basis set out below.
Examination Fees :
(i) First sitting- No fee will be charged
(ii) For the whole examination for
each subsequent sitting Rs. 1,000.00
(iii) Per subject Rs. 500.00
The relevant examination fee could be paid to the credit of
Revenue Head of the Commissioner General of Examinations
No. 2003-02-13 at any Divisional Secretariat and the receipt obtained
should be securely affixed to the application form at the allotted
place so that it may not get detached. Retaining a copy of the
receipt would be useful.
07. This examinations is conducted by the Commissioner General
of Examinations and  all candidates will be required to abide by the
rules and regulations laid down by him in connection with this
examination. Rules and regulations published in Part I : Sec. (IIA)
of this Gazette for applicants for examinations are applicable to

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
809
this examination. On the first day of the examination, admission
card with the applicants authenticated signature should be handed
over to the supervisor of the examination.
08. Duty leave should be granted by the Head of Departments
to applicants who are eligible to sit for the Examination and to
whom admission cards have been issued by the commissioner General
of examinations to enable them to sit for the examination. Admission
cards will be issued to all the applicants who have submitted
applications and issuing an admission card to an applicant should
not be considered by him / her as  a qualification to sit for examination.
09. Any matters not covered by these regulations will be dealt
write the discretion of the Secretary of Ministry of Finance and
planning.
10. In the event of any inconsistency between the notice
pubilshed in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, the notice
published in Sinhala medium shall prevail.
11. Syllabuses related to the Second Efficiency Bar Examinations
are given below :
Syllabus of the Second Efficiency Bar Examination for Grade
III Officers of the Sri Lanka planning Service
1. The Second Efficiency Bar Examination will consist of
the following subjects.
(i) Techniques of Development Marks 100
Planning - (Sub No. 06)
(ii) Basic Macro Economics - Marks 100
(Sub No. 07)
(iii) Current International Economic Marks 100
and Political Crises and their (Sub No. 08)
impact on the Sri Lankan
Economy -
2. An officer can sit all papers in one attempt or separately
in several attempts and should pass examination on or
before relevant period as per the provisions of the service
minute and appointment letter.
3. Each paper will be of 03 hours duration.
4. All the Questions of a  paper should be answered.
5. An applicant should obtain 40% or more marks for a
pass in each paper.
Scheme of Examination
(i) Techniques Development Planning
(a) SWOT  Analysis
(b) Problem Tree
(c) Logical frame Analysis
(d) Cost – benefits analysis
(e) Payback Methodology
(f) Net current Value
(g) Internal Rate of Return
(h) Usage of Shadow Prices
(ii) Basci of Macro Economics
(a) National Accounts
(b) Rate of Economic Growth
(c) Equilibrium level of National Income
(d) Multiplier
(e) Inflation
(f) Interest Rate
(g) An Introduction to the public financial policies
(h) An Introduction to fiscal policies
(i) Trade Circles
(iii) Cur rent International Economic and Political crisis and its
thier impact on the of Sri Lankan Economy.  (Applicants
will have to answer question based on tropics in the context
of the contemporary  world economic conditions as the case
may be).
P. B. J
AY ASUNDERA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo 01,
26th of April 2013.
FORM OF APPLICATION
SECOND EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINA TION FOR OFFICERS IN GRADE III OF THE SRI LANKA PLANNING SERVICE – 2013
(For office use)
Medium of Examination
(write the number in this cage) (Medium applied will not be allowed to change subsequently)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
810
01. Name :
 1.1 Name with Initials  at the End :–––––––––––––.
(In English Block letters e.g. SILVA . B . A.)
 1.2 Full Name (Sinhala / Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
 1.3 National Identity Card  No. :
 02. Official Address (In English Block letters) :–––––––––––.
 2.1 Official Address (Sinhala / Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
2.2 Address to which the Admission Cards should be sent  (In English Block letters) :–––––––––––––.
03.  3.1 Sex  :   Male - 0            Female   - 1 (Specify in the cage given)
 3.2 Date of Birth :-
Year :                            Month :                  Date :
3.3 Age as at the closing date of applications -:
 Years :                          Months :                    Days  :
04. Subjects offered under the Para. 11 of the gazette :
Subject Subjects No.
…………………………………
…………………………………
…………………………………
05. Date of Appointment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Planning Service (Indicate the date of assumption of duties) :–––––––––––.
06. Are you an Old Entrant/New Entrant for the purposes of Official Language Policy :–––––––––––.
07. Name of the Department (Name of the Divisional Secretariat in the case of Divisional Secretariat)  :–––––––––––.
08. Whether you are sitting for the examination for the first time :–––––––––––.
09. If not examination fees paid:
(Paste the receipt securely ; keeping a copy of the receipt would be useful)
10. I declare that the foregoing particulars are true and correct and that I am entitled to sit for the examination in the langu age medium
indicated above. I agree to abide by the decisions taken by the Commissioner General of Examinations regarding the examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date  :––––––––––––.
Note.– The applicant must sign before his/her Head of the Department, or the officer authorized to sign on his / her behalf or
his/ her Provincial Head.
ATTESTATION OF SIGNATURE
I hereby certify that, Mr./Mrs./Miss………………………………………………….who is an officer working in my office and
is known to me personally placed his/her signature before me on …………………………………
 –––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
811
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment of
Officers to Grade II, Class II of Sri Lanka Engineering
Service - 2013
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from qualified citizens of Sri
Lanka for Open Competitive Examination held for recruitment of
officers to fill the vacancies in the posts belonging to the categories
of Civil, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers of Class II, Grade II of
Sri Lanka Engineering' Service.
02. This examination will be held by the Commissioner General
of Examination in Sinhala, Tamil and English Media in Colombo on a
date fallen within/after the month of August 2013 with a view to
determine the order of merit qualified candidates who seek
appointments in the posts of Sri Lanka Engineering Service (Herein
after mention in this notification as "Service"). A candidate is allowed
to sit the examination in any medium but it is not allowed to change
the medium mentioned in the application at later occasions.
03. The Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration and Home
Affairs, who is the appointing authority reserves that right either to
postpone or cancel this examination subject to the instructions of
the Public Service Commission.
04. Applications prepared in accordance with the specimen
attached at the end of this notification shall be sent by registered
post to reach “The Commissioner General of Examination,
Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of
Examinations of Sri Lanka, Pelawatta, Battaramulla” on or before
27.05.2013. The top left corner of the envelope in which the
application is enclosed should bear clearly the title "Open
Competitive Examination for recruitment of officers to Grade II
Class II of Sri Lanka Engineering Service - 2013".
N. B. :
(i) Applications which do not conform to the specimen
will be rejected.
Note.– No complaint that an application or a letter in
respect of such applications have been lost or
delayed in the post shall be considered. The
candidates shall bear any loss which may occur due
to delay in sending applications until the closing
date of application.
(ii) Officers who are already in Public and Provincial Public
Service shall submit their applications through
respective Head of Department.
05. Qualifications :
5.1 A candidate appearing for this examination :
(i) Shall have completed successfully a four year full time
degree in Bachelor of Science in Engineering from a
University of Sri Lanka recognized by the University
Grants Commission under an Engineering Discipline
relevant to the category of engineers for which
appointment is sought and possessed the degree ; or
(ii) Shall have completed a course recognized by the
University Grants Commission and Institute of
Engineers Sri Lanka as equivalent to the degree
mentioned in 5.1(I) under a disciline relevant to the
Category of Engineers for which appointment is sought
and obtained a valid certificate to prove the qualification.
Note.– Above requirements shall be successfully
completed in every respect by the closing date of
applications.
5.2 Other qualifications :
(i) Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Shall have fulfilled all the prescribed qulaifications
in every respect by the date as specified in the
Gazette notification for recruitment.
(iii) Shall be physically fit in every aspect to perform
the duties of the post and to serve in any part of the
island.
(iv) Shall be of excellent moral character.
(v) The subjects indicated in the academic transcript
issued to confirm the qualifications prescribed in
Section 5.1 above shall be conformed in every aspect
to the requirements of category of engineers for
which recruitemnts are made.
(vi) Age.– Minimum limit 21 years, Maximum limit 35
years. However, the maximum age limit for Technical
Officers in Public Service and Provincial Public
Service (Technical Officers in Sri Lanka
Technological Service, Engineerign Assistatns of the
Department of Irrigation of Officers in Supervisory
Managers Service of the Department of Railways)
who have completed a satisfactory service  of 5
CERTIFICA TE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
 I Certify that,
(i) the foregoing particulars were checked by me and found
and correct ; and
(ii) the applicant is eligible to sit for this examination.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
(Official frank should be placed).
Designation :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
04–838/2
–––––––––––––––––

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
812
years in the previous post/service immediately
preceding the closing date of application, shall be
45 years.
Note .– Above qualifications shall have been
successfully completed in every aspect by the
closing date of application.
06. Monthly Salary Scale.– Monthly salary scale of Rs. 22,935
-10x645 -8x790 - 17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 is entitled to this post along
with Efficiency Bar at relevant salary step. (Salary Scale SL 1-2006
as per Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006) However, an
engineer who have possessed full professional qualifications (Status
of Charted Engineer) at the time of recruitment or possesses full
professional qualifications after recruitment shall be placed on fifith
(05) salary step entitled to Class II Grade II of Engineering Service.
The 1st Efficiency Bar Examination shall be passed within 03
years from the date of appointment.
07. Service Conditions :
(i) A selected candidate will be appointed to Class II Grade
II of the Sri Lanka Engineering Service subject to the
general conditions governing appointments in the public
service and also subject to the terms and conditions set
out in the Minute on the Sri Lanka Engineering Service
published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 509/07 dated 07th
June 1988, and any revisions made or to be made hereafter
to the aforesaid minute.
(ii) The appointees shall acquire proficiency in official
languages as per Public Administration Circular No. 07/
2007 dated 28th May, 2007 within 05 years from the
date of appointment.
(iii) This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected
candidates will be required to contribute to the "Widows
and Orphans/Widowers and Orphans Pension Fund". The
appointment will be subjected to a probation period of
three years.
(iv) The appointees shall be prepared to serve in any part of
the island in which they are called upon to serve.
(v) Appointees shall be subjected to serve in both public
service as well as Provincial Public Serivce.
(vi) The appointment of any candidate who fails to assume
duties of the appointed post on the prescribed date and/
or rejects or avoids assuming duties in the post or the area
appointed, may be cancelled.
(vii) Obtaining full professional qualifications shall be
mandatory for promotion of officer in Sri Lanka
Engineering Service from the recruitment grade to the next
higher grade.
08. Method of applying :
(i) The application shall be in the language in which the
candidate sits the examination. While preparing the
application in a language other than English (i. E. Sinhala
or Tamil), it is also required to indicate the name of the
examination, which is indicated in the heading of the
application, in English language. Application should be
prepared on papers of size A-4 in such a way that
Heading Nos. 1.0 to 4.0 appears on the first page, 5.0 to
6.0 on the second page, 7.0 to 10.0 on the third page and
11 on the fourth page and should be filled clearly in the
candidate's own handwriting. The candidate should
check whether the perfected application is in conformity
with the specimen application form. Applications with
incomplete information and not in compliance with the
specimen form of the application will be rejected without
notice. Applicants are advissed to keep a photocopy of
the application.
(ii) The applicant's signature on the application shall be
attested by a Principal of a Government School, a Justice
of Peace, a Commissioner of Oaths, an Attorney at
Law, a Public Notary, a Commissioned Officer in the
Armed Forces of Sri Lanka, an Officer holding a gazetted
post in the Sri Lanka Police Service or an officer holding
a permanent post of the Government and drawing a
basic annual salary of more than Rs. 240,360.
(iii) Receipt of applications shall not be acknowledged.
(iv) As soon as admission cards are issued to applicants, a
notice to that effect shall be published in the newspapers
by the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka. If the
admission card is not received even after 02 or 03 days
from the aforesaid notice, it shall be informed to the
Department of Examination of Sri Lanka as stipulated
in the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the
following in hand at the time of calling the Department
of Examinations of Sri Lanka. i. e. certified photocopies
of the appilcation form and the receipt kept at your
possession, receipt of registration and in case of
applicants outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing
a fax number to which the admission card should be
sent.
09. Examination fees.– The examination fee shall be Rs. 1,000.
Examination fees shall be paid before closing date of applications at
any District/Divisional Secretary's office to be credited to Revenue
Head 2003-02-13. Receipt obtained from the District/Divisional
Secretary's Office shall be firmly pasted along an edge in the relevant
cage of the application. This fee shall not be refunded. Applications
sent without making the due payment of the examination fee as
stipulated above shall be rejected. The candidate is advised to keep a
photocopy of the payment receipt.
10. Scheme of examination.– This examination shall be confined
to a written aptitude test which carries 100 marks. The question

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
813
paper shall be designed to make an assessment of the candidate’s
power of ciritical reasoning and analysis and the ability for decision
making through the knowledge by following engineering science as
prescribed in Section 5.1 for satisfying the qualifications. The question
paper shall consist of multiple choice type questions and questions
for short answers with duration of 1 1/2 hours and all the questions
shall be answered. The order of recruitment shall be determined on
the marks secured by the candidates in the above examination.
11. Admission to the Examination :
(i) The Commissioner General of Examination shall issue
admission cards to all candidates who have paid the
relevant examination fees, duly perfected the
applications and sent before the due date. A candidate
presenting himself for the examination must produce
his/her admission card, on which his/her signature has
been attested, to the supervisor of the Examination
Centre. A candidate who fails to produce his/her
admission card shall not be permitted to sit the
examination.
(ii) A candidate must sit the examination at the Examination
Centre assigned to him/her. Every candidate shall hand
over the admission card to the Supervisor of the
Examination hall, on the first day of the examination. A
set of rules to be followed by all candidates is published
in this Gazette. Candidates are bound by the rules and
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examination in conducting this examination. Candidates
are liable to be subjected to a punishment imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examination for breach of
these rules.
Note.– Admissions cards shall be issued to all the
candidates who have forwarded applications on the
assumption that they have fulfilled all the requisite
qualifications stipulated in this notice. The issuance
of an admission card to a candidate shall not be
treated as a proof that he or she has fulfilled the
requisite qualifications to sit the examination.
12. Identification of candidates.– A candidate shall be required to
prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of
the Invigilator of the examination. Any of the following documents
shall be accepted for this purpose :
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons.
(b) A valid passport.
13. Furnishing false information.– If a candidate is found to be
ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage
prior to or during or after the examination. If any of the particulars
furnished by a candidate is found to be intentionally false or if he/she
has wilfully suppressed any material fact, he/she shall be liable to be
dismissed from the Public Service.
14. Method of Selection for Appointments.– An interview shall be
held as per the following methodology, in order to verify qualifications
of candidates who have secured highest marks from the competitive
examination :
(i) Number of candidates equivalent at least to twice the
number of vacancies shall strictly be called for the
inetrview.
(ii) Certificates of the candidates shall be examined at an
interview held by an interview board approved by the
Public Service Commission.
(iii) All the documents/certificates produced by the
candidates at the interview shall be valid in every aspect.
Any document/certificate produced by the candidates
subject to the covering approval of the appropriate
certifying authority are invalid.
(iv) All valid documents/certificates prescribed in above
14(III) shall be produced at the interview.
(v) Marks shall not be allocated at the interview.
(vi) If several candidates have obtained the same marks, an
appropriate decision shall be taken by the Public Service
Commission and that decision shall be final.
15. Department of examination of Sri Lanka shall make
arrangements to send a results sheet to each candidate, containing the
marks secured by the candidate at the written examination, once the
Secretary of Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs
informs the date appropriate for issuance of results.
16. The number of appointees and the effective date of the
appointment shall be determined by the Public Service Commission.
The Public Service Commission has the power to refrain from filling
any or all of the vacancies and to take decisions regarding any matters
to which provisions are not provided in this notification.
In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and
English texts of this gazette notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
On the order of the Public Service Commission,
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07.

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
814
For office use only
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT OF ENGINEERS TO GRADE II OF
CLASS II OF SRI LANKA ENGINEERING SERVICE – 2013
Language Media of Examination : Sinhala 2 Category applied for : Civil 1
Tamil 3 Mechanical 2
English 4 Electrical 3
(Indicate the appropriate number in the box) (Indicate the appropriate number in the box)
01. Name :
1.1 Name with initials at the end (in English block capitals) Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
Ex. Mrs. SILV A, A. B.
1.2 Names denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In the language of your National Identity Card)
02. National Identity Card No. :
03. 3.1 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
3.2 Address, to which admission card should be sent (In English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
3.3 Telephone Numbers : Land line :––––––––––––.
Mobile :––––––––––––.
3.4 Postal Town :––––––––––––.
3.5 E-mail address :––––––––––––.
04. 4.1 Ethnic group (Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2, Indian Tamil - 3, Muslim - 4, Other - 5)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
4.2 Gender Group (Male - 0,  Female - 1)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
4.3 Marital Status (Single - 1, Married - 2)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
4.4 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
4.5 Age as at the closing date of application
Years : Months : Days :
05. 5.1 Educational Qualifications :
(i) Effective date of the degree or qualifications mentioned in para 5.1(II) of the Gazette notification :––––––––––––.
(ii) University/Institution :––––––––––––.
(iii) Registration Number and Date :––––––––––––.
(iv) Name of the Degree Course (E. g.– B. Sc. Engineering) :––––––––––––.
(v) Engineering discipline (e. g.– Civil, Mechanical, Electrical, Production) :––––––––––––.
(vi) Year of completion of the Degree of qualifications mentioned in para 5.1(II) of the Gazette Notification :––––––––––––.
(vii) Subjects of the Final year :––––––––––––.
(viii) Language in which the candidate sat the examination :––––––––––––.
5.2 Professional Qualifications, if any (eg.– MICE, MIE) :–––––––––––.
06. Particulars of the present post and posts held previously, if any (date of entry to the service, date of resignation and rea sons for
resignation should be mentioned) :
6.1 Post :––––––––––––.
6.2 Department/Institution :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2013
815
6.3 Date of Appointment :––––––––––––.
6.4 Whether permanent/pensionable/non-pensionable/temporary :––––––––––––.
6.5 Whether confirmed in the post :––––––––––––.
6.6 Salary scale of the post and present salary :––––––––––––.
6.7 Particulars of the posts held previously (extra paper can be used) :––––––––––––.
6.8 Have you ever been subjected to disciplinary punishment, whilst you hold any of the posts mentioned here ? If so, furnish th e
particulars of the offence and the punishment imposed :––––––––––––.
07. Have you ever been convicted in a Court of Law for a criminal offence ? If so, furnish particulars of such conviction and penalty imposed
:––––––––––––.
08. Please paste the receipt along one side so as not to be detached (It will be useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidates)
:––––––––––––.
Number of the receipt :––––––––––––.
Paying Office :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
09. Declaration of the applicant :
I hereby certify that the particulars given by me in this application are true and correct. I am also aware that if any particu lars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualify if detected before selection ; to dismissal without compensation,
if detected after appointment. Furthermore, I hereby state that I am bound by all rules and regulations with regard to conducti ng the
examination and issuing the results imposed by the Commissioner General of Examination.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
10. Attestation of signature (As per 08(II) of the Gazette notification) :
I hereby certify that (name in full) ........................................ who submits this application is known to me personally and he/she
has affixed the receipt and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on ........................
––––––––––––––,
(Signature of the Officer attesting the signature).
Date :––––––––––––.
Full name of the officer attesting the signature :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(to be confirmed by the official stamp)
11. Report of the Head of Department if the applicant is in the Public Service :
I hereby certify that (name in full) ....................................... who submits this application is known to me personally and that he/
she placed his/her signature in my presence on ..............................
I certify that the particulars given in paragraph 06 above on present service of the officer are correct and his/her work and conduct
are ....................... he/she can be/cannot be released from the present post.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by the official stamp)
04–835
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.