

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1462
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … 1450
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"195 – 2020 iema;eïn¾ ui 25 jeks isl=rdod – 2020'09'25
No. 2,195  –  fRiday , sEPtEmbER 25, 2020
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 16th october, 2020 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 02nd october, 2020.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2020.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1447 - b 82061- 5,403 (09/2020)
N. B.– Gazette Extraordinary No. 2193/56 of 18.09.2020 was cancelled.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1448
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1449
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. Unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ she shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1450
Posts – vacant
mINISTRy Of buDDhA SASANA, RELIGIOuS 
AND CuLTuRAL  AffAIRS 
Department of Cultural Affairs
REcRUitmENt to tHE Post of daNcER iN tHE 
statE daNcE ENsEmbLE oN coNtRact basis
aPPLicatioNs are invited from the sri Lankan citizens 
who possess under- mentioned qualifications for making 
recruitment, on contract basis, to the vacancies in the state 
dance Ensemble of the department of cultural affairs.
Duly filled applications, prepared in A4 sheets as per 
the specimen given at the end of this notification should be 
sent to reach the director, department of cultural affairs,                         
8
th floor, sethsiripaya, battaramulla on or before 09.10.2020 
by registered post. “dancer”  (contract basis) should be 
written on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing 
the application. applications received after the closing date 
will be rejected. this application could also be obtained on 
www.culturaldept.gov.lk.  
01. Terms of engagement and Conditions :
 i. appointment is made on contract basis for a 
period of 03 years.
 ii. Salary :- a monthly allowance of Rs. 33,600/= 
will be paid.
02. Educational and other Qualifications :
 i. Educational Qualifications :
  should have passed six subjects (06) including 
the subject of Dancing at the General Certificate 
of Education (ordinary Level) Examination 
with at least two credit passes in not more than 
two sittings,
              and
  should have followed and passed the diploma 
course in dancing conducted by the National 
youth services council,
              or
  should have followed and passed a diploma 
course in dancing recognized by the 
Government,
              or
  should have passed the National dancing 
Prarambaka (Jathika Netum Prarambaka) 
Examination.
 ii.  Professional Qualifications :
  Not applicable (Professional Qualifications 
will be considered as an added qualification at 
the interview held to test the eligibility)
 iii. experience :
  03 years experience as a dancer in an arts 
school (Kalayathanaya) approved by the 
Government or an equivalent institution. 
             or
  should be a traditional dancer (should be 
certified in writing)
 iV . Physical Qualifications :
 i. Every candidate should physically and 
mentally fit to perform the duties in the 
post and to serve in any part of the island.
 ii. Height of the candidate should be not less 
than 5 feet and 2 inches
 V.   Other Qualifications :
 i. Every candidate should possess a good 
moral character and physically fit.
 II. Every candidate should have fulfilled all the 
requisite qualifications in every manner as 
at the date stipulated in the advertisement 
for the recruitment to the post.
 III. Proficiency in dancing/playing instruments 
will be considered.
03. Age Limit: should be not less than 18 years and not 
more than 25 years at the date of closing applications.
04. Method of Recruitment :
• Recruitments will be made on the results of an 
interview to test the eligibility and a Professional 
test.
• Twice the number of vacancies existing will be 
called upon for the Professional test, in order of 
merit, based on the total marks obtained at the 
interview to test the eligibility. Recruitments 
will be made in order of merit of the total marks 
obtained both from the interview to test the 
eligibility and the Professional test.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1451
    Interview to test the eligibility :
Key headings of giving marks Maximum Marks Minimum marks for selection
1. Additional Educational Qualifications 20 Not applicable
2. Experience in the relevant field
(Should be certified through certificates)
35
3. Professional Qualifications :
  i. should have participated in the events at national level 
under the guidance of veterans in the field.
ii. should have participated in performance shows held 
abroad with the veterans or by cultural centers. 
25
4. Language Proficiency 15
5. skills shown at the interview 05
 total 100
               
Professional Test :
Key headings of giving marks Maximum Marks Pass Mark
1. competency skill 30 15
2. Knowledge on lines, figures and rhythm 20 10
3. appearance (Height/shape) 20 10
4. special skills 20 10
5. theoretical Knowledge 10 05
     total 100 50
05. Identity of the candidates.–  applications should be furnished with correct information on educational and other 
qualifications of the candidate. Only the candidates, who have submitted duly filled complete applications, will be called 
upon for the interview to test the eligibility.
The original certificates and the duly certified copies thereof should be submitted at the interview.
the following papers of identity will be accepted in proof of identity of the candidates at the interview.
1. National identity card issued by the commissioner of Registration of Persons.
2.  Valid Passport
06. Any type of canvassing will be a disqualification.
07. Any information contained in the application is found to be incorrect will render the candidate liable to disqualification 
if the inaccuracy is revealed before the selection and to dismissal if it is so revealed after the appointment.
08. If there is any inconsistency or mismatch among Sinhala, Tamil and English texts in this notification, action will be 
taken as per the sinhala text.
                                                                     
    Tharani anoja gamage,
                                                                                     director (Acting),
                                                                   department of cultural affairs.
department of cultural affairs,
08th floor, sethsiripaya,
battaramulla,
25th september, 2020.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1452
Specimen applicaTion Form
                                     For Office Use 
applicaTion For The poST oF dancer (conTracT baSiS) in The deparTmenT oF culTural aFFairS
01. Name with initials :–––––––––––––.
02. Name denoted by initials :–––––––––––––.
03. date of birth :–––––––––––––.
04. age (as at 09.10.2020) :–––––––––––––.
05. Height:      feet :–––––––––––––.       inches :–––––––––––––.
06. National identity card No. :–––––––––––––.
07. sex :–––––––––––––.
08. address :–––––––––––––.
09. t elephone No. :–––––––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications :
   (i) G.c.E. (ordinary Level)
    y ear :–––––––––––––.                  index No. :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
 (ii) diploma course in dancing conducted by the National youth services council/ diploma course in dancing 
recognized by the Government/ Jathika Netum Prarambaka Examination
effective Date examination Passed University/Institute
11. Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
12. Experience :–––––––––––––.
I hereby confirm that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my 
knowledge. i am aware that if any information contained in the application is found to be incorrect, i will be liable to 
disqualification if the inaccuracy is revealed before the selection and to dismissal if it is so revealed after the appointment.
                               ––––––––––––––––––,
   signature of the candidate.
date :–––––––––––––.
09–803/1

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1453
 mINISTRy Of buDDhA SASANA, 
RELIGIOuS AND CuLTuRAL AffAIRS
Department of Cultural Affairs
REcRUitmENt to tHE Post of mUsiciaN iN tHE 
statE mUsic ENsEmbLE oN coNtRact basis
aPPLicatioNs are invited from the sri Lankan citizens 
who possess under-mentioned qualifications for making 
recruitment, on contract basis, to the vacancies in the state 
music Ensemble of the department of cultural affairs.
Duly filled applications, prepared in A4 sheets as per the 
specimen given at the end of this notification should be sent 
to reach the director, department of cultural affairs, 8
th 
floor, sethsiripaya, battaramulla on or before 09.10.2020 
by registered post. “musician” (contract basis) should be 
written on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing 
the application. applications received after the closing date 
will be rejected. this application could also be obtained on 
www.culturaldept.gov.lk.  
01. Terms of engagement and Conditions :
 i. appointment is made on contract basis for a 
period of 03 years.
 ii. Salary: - a monthly allowance of Rs. 33,600/= 
will be paid.
02. Educational and other Qualifications :
 i. Educational Qualifications :
  should have passed three subjects (03) including 
Music at General Certificate of Education 
(advanced Level) Examination
  and
  should have passed the National music final 
Examination or music Visharad Examination of 
bathkande faculty
          or
       should have possessed a degree in music 
subject, recognized by the University Grants 
commission
 ii  Professional Qualifications :
   Not applicable (Professional Qualifications will 
be considered as an added qualification at the 
interview to test the eligibility)
 iii. experience:
  05 year experience as a musician in an arts 
school (Kalayathanaya) recognized by the 
Government or in an arts school, recognized by 
the director of cultural affairs as an equivalent 
institution,  
or
  should be a traditional musician (should be 
certified in writing).
 iV .  Physical Qualifications :
 i. Every candidate should physically and 
mentally fit to perform the duties in the post 
and to serve in any part of the island.
 ii. Height of the candidate should be not less 
than 5 feet and 3 inches
 V.   Other Qualifications :
 i. Every candidate should possess a good 
moral character and should physically fit.
 ii. Every candidate should have fulfilled all the 
requisite qualifications in every manner as 
at the date stipulated in the advertisement 
for the recruitment to the post.
 iii. Proficiency in singing/playing instruments 
will be considered.
03. Age Limit: should be not less than 18 years and not 
more than 45 years at the date of closing applications.
04. Method of Recruitment :
• Recruitments will be made on the results of an 
interview to test the eligibility and a Professional 
test.
• only the candidates who have passed the 
interview to test the eligibility, will be called 
upon for the Professional test. Recruitments 
will be made in order of merit of the total marks 
obtained both from the interview to test the 
eligibility and the Professional test.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1454
  Interview to test the eligibility :
Key headings of giving marks Maximum Marks Minimum marks for selection
1. Additional Educational Qualifications 20 Not applicable
2. Experience in the relevant field
(Should be certified through certificates)
35 Not applicable
3. Professional Qualifications
  i. should have participated in the events at national 
level under the guidance of veterans in the field.
ii. should have participated in performance shows held 
abroad with the veterans or by cultural centers. 
25 Not applicable
4. Language Proficiency 15 Not applicable
5. skills shown at the interview 05 Not applicable
         total 100
              
Professional test :
Key headings of giving marks Maximum Marks Pass Mark
1. main subject (singing/Playing instruments) 60 30
2. sub subjects (Playing instruments for  singers/singing for 
instrumentalists 
20 10
3. ability to read/write notations 20 10
total 100 50
05. Identity of the candidates. – applications should be furnished with correct information on educational and other 
qualifications of the candidate. Only the candidates, who have submitted duly filled complete applications, will be called 
upon for the interview to test the eligibility.
The original certificates and the duly certified copies thereof should be submitted at the interview.
the following papers of identity will be accepted in proof of identity of the candidates at the interview.
1. National identity card issued by the commissioner of Registration of Persons.
2.  Valid Passport.
06. Any type of canvassing will be a disqualification.
07. If any information contained in the application is found to be incorrect, the applicant will be liable to disqualification 
if the inaccuracy is revealed before the selection and to dismissal if it is so revealed after the appointment.
08. If there is any inconsistency or mismatch among Sinhala, Tamil and English texts in this notification, action will be 
taken as per the sinhala text.
                                                                     
    Tharani anoja gamage,
                                                                                     director (Acting),
                                                                   department of cultural affairs.
department of cultural affairs,
08th floor, sethsiripaya,
battaramulla,
25th september 2020.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1455
Specimen applicaTion Form
                                     For Office Use 
applicaTion For The poST oF muSician (conTracT baSiS) in The deparTmenT oF culTural aFFairS
01. Name with initials :–––––––––––––.
02. Name denoted by initials :–––––––––––––.
03. date of birth :–––––––––––––.
04. age (as at 09.10.2020) :–––––––––––––.
05. Height:      feet :–––––––––––––.       inches :–––––––––––––.
06. National identity card No. :–––––––––––––.
07. sex :–––––––––––––.
08. address :–––––––––––––.
09. t elephone No. :–––––––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications :
   (i) G.c.E. (advanced Level)
    y ear :–––––––––––––.                  index No. :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grade
 (ii) degree obtained :
effective Date Field University/Institute
 (iii) National music final Examination or music Visharad Examination of bathkande faculty  :
effective Date examination Passed University/Institute
11. Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
12. Experience :–––––––––––––.
I hereby confirm that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my 
knowledge. i am aware that if it is revealed that any information contained in the application is found to be incorrect, i will 
be liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is revealed before the selection and to dismissal if it is so revealed after the 
appointment.
                               ––––––––––––––––––,
   signature of the candidate.
date :–––––––––––––.
09–803/2

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1456
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
Recruitment for the post of Legal Officer in the 
Executive Service Category at the Irrigation 
Department on the open basis - 2020
miNistRy of iRRiGatioN
aPPLicatioNs are called from sri Lankan citizens who 
have fulfilled the below qualifications, to fill the vacancy 
(01) of the post of Legal Officer in the Irrigation Department 
of the ministry of irrigation.
01. Method of Recruitment.– from the applicants who 
have fulfilled the qualifications stated in the announcement, 
the applicant who obtained the highest mark based on the 
results of a structured interview conducted by a structured 
interview board appointed by the Public service commission 
shall be recruited to fill the vacancy. The structured interview 
shall be conducted in compliance with the marking scheme 
(under No. 06) approved by the Public service commission.
the effective date of the appointment shall be determined 
by the Public service commission
02. Required Qualifications :
  
 (i)  Educational/ Professional Qualifications .– 
Having taken oaths as an attorney-at-Law in the 
supreme court.
 (ii)  experience.– Having obtained an active 
professional experience not less than 3 years 
as an attorney- at-Law after taking oaths as 
an attorney at law in the supreme court. (the 
time period, the date of the experience was 
obtained and the official seal shall be clearly 
shown in the documents verifying the active 
professional experience and shall be presented 
at the interview.) or
  Having obtained not less than 03 years of 
experience in following tasks in the field of Law 
at a government institution after taking oaths as 
an attorney -at- Law
 (i) coordination with the Legal affairs and 
attorney General's department regarding 
the cases
 (ii) Legal activities regarding agreements.
 (iii) Legal activities regarding the related acts 
and ordinances.
 (iv) Execution of legal documents such as 
draft acts, circular regulations
 (v) Legal or judicial activities or inquiries 
carried out by other statutary institutions.
 (vi) to appear and assist for the inquiries that 
will be held by other institutions.
  (these facts must be proved by a 
certificate issued by the Secretary, Head 
of the department.)
 (iii)  Physical Qualification :
  Every candidate shall be physically and 
mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and 
to perform the duties of the post.
 (iv)  Other Qualifications :
• shall be a citizen of sri Lanka.
• shall be of excellent character
• Required qualifications shall have been 
complicated in every aspect as at the closing 
date of qualifications.
• shall have obtained at least a credit pass for 
the English Language at the G.c.E (o/L) 
Examination.
3. conditions for engagement in service and service 
conditions :
 (i) this post is permanent. you are subjected 
to any policy decision taken in future by the 
Government in connection to the pension scheme 
entitled to you. further you are required to make 
your contributions to the Widows/widowers and 
orphans Pension scheme. contributions shall 
be made by you as ordered by the Government 
from time to time.
 (ii) this appointment will be subjected to a 
probationary period of the (03) years. the 1
st 
efficiency bar examination shall be passed 
within 03 years of the appointment as prescribed 
in the scheme of Recruitment.
 (iii) as per provisions in Public administration 
circular No. 01/2014, it is required to achieve 
the proficiency in the official language other than 
the language in which they joined to the service 
within 05 years of joining. And officers who 
joined the service through a medium which is 
not an official language shall achieve the official 
language proficiency within the probationary 
period.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1457
 iv. this appointment will subject to the Procedural Rules of Public services commission, Establishment codes of 
the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka, financial Regulations of the Government and other departmental 
orders.
4. age Limit.– should be not less than 21 years and not more than 45 years of age as at the closing date of applications.
5. salary scale.– this post is entitled to a (monthly) salary scale of Rs.47,615-10x1335- 8x1630-17x2170-110,895/= 
(sL-1-2016), as per the on salaries. (salaries shall be paid as per the Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 
25.02.2016 in the manner stipulated in schedule ii of the same.)
06. the below mentioned marking scheme will be the basis for the structured interview :
Subject Maximum
Marks
01. Additional Educational Qualifications:
A Post Graduate Degree in the relevant field obtained from a University
recognized by the University Grants commission
A post Graduate Diploma in the relevant field or a Post Graduate Diploma
in Law (not less than one year) obtained from an institute recognized by
the Government
degree in Law obtained from a university recognized by the University
Grants commission
-first class
-second class (upper)
-second class (lower)
First Class in the final years of Law College
Second Class in the final years of Law College
25
20
15
10
05
10
05
25
02 Additional Professional Experience :
i. Additional Professional Qualifications
For a Diploma in the relevant field which is more than one year, offered 
by an institute recognized by the Government.
(10 marks for one diploma)
For a Diploma in the relevant field which is more than 06 months and less 
than a year, offered by an institute recognized by the Government.
(05 marks for each diploma)
For a Diploma in the relevant field which is more than 03 months and less 
than 06 months, offered by an institute recognized by the Government.  
(03 marks for each diploma)
(Certificates other than for which the marks were given under No. 01)
10
35

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1458
Subject Maximum
Marks
ii. Additional Experience
Experience as an attorney at- Law in Government or Private sector
(Maximum 25 marks as five marks for each year)
(Not more than 06 months and less than year - 02 marks)
(Except for the 03 years of service period served as an attorney-at-Law to 
acquire the basic qualification)
(Additional experience should be confirmed by a certificate obtained by an 
attorney-at-Law with a service period not less than 20 years or President's 
counselor or a Judge)
(When the additional experience if confirmed by the Head of the 
institution for the government officers or the officers in the private sector who 
have completed the above qualifications, it shall be confirmed by a certificate 
stating that the candidate is serving in a post of legal framework
25
03 Language Proficiency
Post graduate degree/ degree /Post L.L.b degree/L.L.b degree studied in
English medium.
(all relevant examination question papers should be answered in English
medium)
for an English Language diploma from a university recognized by the
University Grants commission or an institution recognized by the
government (01 year or 1500hrs)
English Language Certificate course from a university recognized by the
University Grants commission or an institution recognized by the government
-06 months /720 hours
-03 month/ 360 hours
(Marks will be given only for the highest qualification)
15
10
07
05
15
04 knowledge in Information Technology
for having followed information technology as a main subject for a degree 
from a university recognized by the University Grants commission.
for a diploma in information technology not less than 01 year or 1500
hours from an institute recognized by the Government.
A Certificate course on information technology from a government
recognized institute
-06 months/ 720 hours
-03/months/360 hours
(marks will be given only for the highest qualifications)
10
07
05
03
10

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1459
Subject Maximum
Marks
05 Competency at the Interview
i. General knowledge and intelligence
ii. Knowledge in modern trends in legal system
iii. ability to express ideas clearly and the personality
05
05
05
15
Total 100
7. Identity of the Candidates :
• only those candidates who have completed the applications in all aspect will be called upon for the structured 
interview.
• Original certificates and duly certified copies of the certificates should be presented at the interview.
• To certify the identity of the candidates at the interview, following documents of identification will be accepted.
 i.  National identity card issued by the commissioner of the department of the Registration of Persons,
 ii.  Valid Passport.
8. Method of Application :
 (i) applications shall be sent by the registered post to reach the director General of irrigation; irrigation 
department, bauddhaloka mawatha, colombo 07 on or before 23.10.2020 applications which receive after 
the closing date will be rejected.
 (ii)  A specimen application form is shown here at the end of this notification. Applicants shall prepare their 
applications on A4 sized papers in such a manner that No. 1.0 to 3.0 appear on the first page, and the No. 4.0 
to 6.0 appear on the page 02 and No. 7.0 to No. 08 appear on the page 03 and shall fill in correctly and legibly 
by candidate's own handwriting. (it would be useful to keep a photocopy of the application)
 (iii)  "Application for the post of the Legal Officer" shall be mentioned at the top left corner of the envelope 
enclosing the application.
 (iv) the signature of the applicant should be attested by a Principal of a Government school/ Justice of Peace/ 
Commissioner of Oaths/ an Attorney at Law / Notary Public/Commissioned Officer of three armed forces or an 
officer holding a permanent post in public service drawing consolidated monthly salary of Rs .47,615/= or above. 
 (v) Officers who are already in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service, should forward their applications 
through the respective Heads of the departments in which they are serving.
 (vi)  the applications which are not in conformity with the prescribed specimen application will be rejected. No 
complaints will be admitted on loss or delay of the applications.
9.  Furnishing false information.– if any of the particulars furnished by you are found to be false or erroneous before the 
recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. in case of such falsehood or error is detected after the recruitment, action 
will be taken to discontinue your service, subject to relevant disciplinary action. 
10. The right to fill or not to fill the vacancies is vested with the Public Service Commission.
11. in case of any problematic issue arises regarding the recruitment procedure or the contents of the notice, the decision 
taken by the Public Service Commission will be final.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1460
12. in case of any inconsistency among the texts of this Gazette notification published in Sinhala, Tamil and English 
language, the text published in sinhala language shall prevail.
on the order of the Public service commission,
 secretary,
 ministiy of irrigation.
on 09th of september, 2020.
sPEcimEN aPPLicatioN
REcRUitmENt foR tHE Post of LEGaL officER iN tHE EXEcUtiVE sERVicE catEGoRy at tHE
iRRiGatioN dEPaRtmENt of tHE miNistRy of iRRiGatioN oN tHE oPEN basis - 2020
Language in which the
interview is faced. 
(For Office Use only)
(Write the relevant Number in the box-sinhala-l/tamil-2/English-3) 
Note:- the language medium applying for cannot be changed.
1.0  1.1  full Name (mr./mrs/ms.) :––––––––––––––––.
   (in sinhala/tamil)
  1.2 full Name :––––––––––––––––.
   (in English block letters)
  1.3 Name with initials (mr./mrs./ms.) :––––––––––––––––.
   (in sinhala/tamil)
  1.4 Name with initials :––––––––––––––––.
   (in English block letters) 
   e.g. : GUNaWaRdHaNa, m.G..b.s.K
2.0  2.1  Permanent address :––––––––––––––––.
   (in sinhala/tamil)
  2.2 Permanent address :––––––––––––––––.
   (in English block letters)
3.0  3.1  Gender : male  - 0
      female - 1
  3.2 marital status : married  - 1 
     Unmarried - 2
  3.3 date of birth :     year :     month :         date :
  3.4 age as at 23.10.2020 :        years :          months :  days :
  3.5 National identity card No. :
4.0  4.1  Particulars on the qualifications achieved as per the notification of calling applications :
     Institution from which the qualifications were achieved date of the achievement
     ........................................................... .........................................
     ........................................................... .........................................

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1461
 date on which the oaths taken as an attorney-at-Law in the supreme court:
  4.2 Particulars on each qualification achieved under the No. 06 of the notification of calling applications
  4.3 Additional Educational Qualifications :––––––––––––––––.
  4.4 Additional Professional Qualifications :––––––––––––––––.
  4.5 additional Experience :––––––––––––––––. 
  4.6 Language Proficiency :––––––––––––––––.
  4.7 Knowledge in information technology :––––––––––––––––.
5.0  Have you ever been convicted by a court of Law for an offence?
 (indicate in the relevant box)  (Explain if yes.)
No yes
 .........................................................................................................................................................................................
6.0 declaration of the applicant :
i do hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct, that i am liable to 
be disqualified for this post if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before the appointment and 
to be dismissed if such detection is made after appointment and i am subjected to all the rules and regulations.
  ––––––––––––––––––,
date :––––––––––––––––. signature of the applicant.
7.0 attestation of the signature of the candidate:
i do certify that the undersigned Rev./mr./mrs./miss  ................................... is  personally known to me and he/she 
placed his/her signature before me on ....................................
date :––––––––––––––––. –––––––––––––––––––––,
  signature of the attester.
full Name :––––––––––––––––.
designation  :––––––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––––––.
(Substantiate with the official seal)
8.0 Certification of the Head of the Department.
i hereby certify that mr/mrs/miss....................................... who has furnished above particulars is working in this 
institution, that the particulars furnished by him/her is correct, that his/her work and attendance are satisfactory, that no 
complaints are against a him/her and can be released from the service at this institution once he/she is selected for this post.
 –––––––––––––––––––,
 signature of the departmental/institutional Head.
Name :––––––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––––––.
(Place the official seal)
09–802
*

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1462
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of PORTS & ShIPPING
merchant Shipping Secretariat
EfficiENcy baR EXamiNatioN i foR officERs 
of tHE  assistaNt sHiPPiNG officERs’ 
sERVicE – 2020
1.0  it is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination 
for officers in Grade III of the Assistant Shipping Officers’ 
service as provided for in paragraph 08 of the scheme of 
Recruitment for the Related services category (assistant 
Shipping Officer, Shipping Officer) of the Merchant 
shipping secretariat, shall be held by the commissioner 
General of Examinations in the month of december 2020. 
2.0 This exam for the officers in Grade III of the Assistant 
Shipping Officers’ Service shall be held in Colombo only.
3.0 (i) this exam shall be held by the commissioner 
General of Examinations and candidates are bound by the 
rules and regulations prescribed by him for conducting the 
examination.
 
(ii) the rules prescribed for candidates are printed in the 
Gazette notification, separately. The candidates who violate 
these rules are liable to any of the punishments prescribed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations.
4.0 eligibility.– the officers who have been appointed to 
the Assistant Shipping Officer Grade III are eligible to sit for 
this examination.
5.0 the application shall comply with the specimen 
form attached to this notification. The candidates shall 
prepare their application in accordance with the specimen 
form and send the application so prepared through the 
respective Head of department by registered post to reach 
“the commissioner General of Examinations, organizations 
(institutional & foreign Examinations) branch, department 
of Examinations sri Lanka, P.o. box 1503, colombo on or 
before 23
rd of october 2020. the name of the examination 
should be indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope 
in which the application is sent to the commissioner General 
of Examinations. applications received after the closing 
date and not duly completed shall be rejected.
6.0 candidates shall be required to prove their identity at 
the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for 
each subject they offer. for this purpose any of the following 
documents shall be accepted :
 (i)  the National identity card,
 (ii)  a Valid passport,
 (iii)  a Valid driving license.
and, examination candidates should enter the examination 
hall keeping their face and ears openly so as to confirm 
their identity. The candidates who refuse to confirm his/her 
identity as such shall be denied entering the examination 
hall. and, every candidate should be in the examination hall 
from the moment they enter and leave the examination hall 
at the end of the examination in such a way keeping his/her 
face and ears to be clearly recognizable to the examination 
authorities.
7.0 (i) Applications.– the application should be prepared 
on a paper of “a4” size in such a manner that paragraph 
Nos. 1.0 to 6.0 appear on the first page and the remaining 
numbers in the other pages. although application form 
could be typewritten, it should be duly and clearly filled by 
the candidate’s own handwriting. the application should 
be prepared in accordance with the specimen attached 
hereto and each candidate shall send one application only 
and it is notified not to send photocopies of the application. 
applications that are not duly completed and that do not 
comply with the specimen shall be rejected without any 
notice. the name of the examination appearing in the heading 
of the application should be written in sinhala applications 
in addition to sinhala in English and in tamil applications in 
addition to tamil in English. and, the candidate shall recheck 
that the completed application complies with the specimen 
referred to in the exam notification, that the application is 
duly completed, that the prescribed examination fee has been 
paid, that details have been included and that the receipt has 
been affixed, and it would be advisable to keep a photocopy 
of the application at the candidate’s possession.  
(ii) Punishments for false information.– When 
completing the application, correct information should be 
provided with due consideration. if it is revealed that a 
candidate is ineligible in terms of the rules and regulations 
of this examination, his/her candidature can be annulled at 
any stage before, during or after the examination.
(iii) No examination fees shall be levied in respect of 
officers appearing for the first time. However, if officers 
appear for the full examination or for more than one subject 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1463
and for one subject on subsequent occasions, Rs.500 and 
Rs.250 respectively shall be paid as examination fee at any 
post office/sub post office or District/Divisional Secretariat 
in the island to be credit ed to the revenue head 20-03-02-13                
of the commissioner General of Examinations and the 
receipt obtained in favor of the candidate himself/herself 
should be affixed to the relevant cage of the application. 
it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt. it is 
kindly notified that no fees other than this examination fee 
shall be levied. this fee shall not be refunded under any 
circumstances. the examination fee shall not be allowed 
to be transferred in respect of any other examination. and, 
stamp or money order shall not be accepted in the payment 
of examination fee.
8.0 On the assumption that there are only those who fulfill 
necessary qualifications as per the Gazette notification, the 
officers who have submitted duly completed applications 
along with the receipt of the duly paid examination fee on 
or before the closing date of applications shall receive the 
admission card with a copy of the examination timetable 
from the commissioner General of Examinations. a 
notification shall be published in newspapers and the 
official website by the Department of Examinations as 
soon as the admission cards are issued to the candidates. 
if the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 
days of such notification, steps shall be taken to notify the 
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the 
advertisement. It is notified to inquire indicating your full 
name, address, National identity card number and name of 
the examination from the department of Examinations sri 
Lanka with the copy of application at your possession and 
receipt of payment if the examination fee has been so paid, 
and it would be advisable to inquire from the department of 
Examinations sri Lanka through fax by forwarding a letter 
of request with your fax number to send your above details 
and a copy of the admission card through fax. The officers 
appearing for the examination must produce admission 
cards with signatures attested in advance to the supervisor 
of the examination center.
Note. – the issuance of an admission card should not 
be considered as an acceptance of requisite 
qualifications of a candidate to sit for the 
examination.
9.0 the signature of the candidate in the application 
and admission card for the examination must be certified by 
the Head of Department or an officer authorized by him. 
10.0 the admission card with his/her signature attested 
must be produced to the supervisor of the examination 
center on the first day of appearing for the examination.
11.0 Heads of department shall grant duty leave for the 
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the 
commissioner General of Examinations and appearing for 
the examination for the first time, to present themselves at 
the examination. travelling expenses are not payable.
12.0 the examination will be conducted in sinhala, 
Tamil and English languages. The officers may sit for the 
examination in the language in which the officers sat for the 
examination to enter the relevant Service or in an Official 
Language. The officers who entered the Service without a 
competitive examination may also sit for the examination in 
the language medium in which they had education or in an 
Official Language. Permission will not be given to change 
the medium applied for the examination later.
13.0 The officers may appear for each subject separately 
and in different occasions as they wish. However, a minimum 
of 40% of the total marks for each subject must be secured 
to pass the examination. (see annex 01 of the scheme of 
Recruitment for Assistant Shipping Officers, Shipping 
Officers – Related Services category of the Merchant 
shipping secretariat for more details).
14.0 For the purposes of Official Languages Policy all 
the officers should prepare and fill their application forms in 
the official language.
15.0 the department of Examinations will release the 
result sheet including the results of all candidates to the 
director General of merchant shipping, merchant shipping 
secretariat.
16.0 Scheme of examination: candidates must appear 
for a written examination including the following subjects.
Subject Marks Time Subject 
No. 
1. Establishments and 
Procedural code                100 01 hour                             01
2. fundamental 
knowledge on 
financial Regulations
100 01 hour                             02
  

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1464
16.1. Establishments and Procedural code:
 chapters i, ii, Vii, XiV , XXiV , XXVii, XXViii, 
XXX, XXXiii of V olume i of the Establishments 
code and chapter XLViii of V olume 2
16.2. fundamental knowledge on financial Regulations
 chapters i, iV , V , Vi, Viii, Xiii of the code 
of financial Regulations and Government 
Procurement process
17.0 in the event of any incompatibility or inconsistency 
among the terms of this notification published in Sinhala, 
Tamil and English languages, the notification published in 
sinhala language should prevail. further, any matter which 
does not provide for in this notification will be determined 
by the director General of merchant shipping.
 a. W. 
SeneviraThne,
 director General of merchant shipping.
merchant shipping secretariat,
ministry of Ports & shipping and southern development,
first floor, bristol building, 43-89, york street,
colombo 01,
on 25
th september 2020.
sPEcimEN foRm of aPPLicatioN
iyldr keõ .uka ks,Odß fiajfha i jk ld¾hlaIu;d 
lvbï úNd.h - 2020
FirST eFFiciency bar examinaTion oF aSSiSTanT Shipping 
oFFicerS Service - 2020
                                                           
       
   for office use
  
medium of application and divisional secretariat (indicate 
the relevant number in the cage)
sinhala  - 2 
tamil  - 3
English  - 4
1.0 
 1.1 Name in full (in English block capitals) :––––––––.
 1.2 Name with initials (in English block capitals) :                  
––––––––––.
 1.3 Name in full (in sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.0  service station and address:
 2.1 Name and address of the office (in English block 
capitals) :––––––––––––.
 2.2 Name and address of the office (In Sinhala/Tamil) 
:––––––––––––.
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be sent 
(in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
3.0  Gender :    
  female  - 1     
  male  - 0    
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  
4.0 National identity card No. :  
5.0 telephone number :
6.0 the subject/subjects you are appearing for :  
Subject Subject No.
1.
2.
      
7.0  Present post : 
         7.1 Post :––––––––––––.
         7.2 Number of the letter of appointment :–––––––––.
8. 8.1  Are you appearing for the examination for the first 
time? :––––––––––––.
   8.2   if not, the examination fees paid :––––––––––––.
 8.3  Post Office/Sub Post Office or District/Divisional 
secretariat :––––––––––––.
 8.4  Receipt Number :––––––––––––.
 8.5  date :––––––––––––.
The receipt should be affixed so as not to be detatched
(it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt)
9.0  Certificate of Candidate :
i declare that the particulars furnished above are true, that 
i am entitled to sit for the examination in the medium stated 
above, that it is not necessary to pay the examination fee/
that the examination fee of Rs. ...............has been paid to 
the ........................ Post office/ Sub Post office/ Divisional 
secretariat on ................... and the receipt so obtained has 

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1465
been affixed since I am appearing for the examination for 
the ................................ time. further, i hereby declare that i 
shall be bound by the decisions taken by the commissioner 
General of Examinations and all provisions of the Public 
Examination act for conducting the examination and 
issuance of the results.
                                                                 
 ––––––––––––––––,
 signature of candidate.
date :––––––––––––.
Note : the candidate shall sign before his/her Head of 
Department or an officer authorized to sign on 
behalf of the Head of department.
Attestation of the signature
It is hereby certified that Mr./ Mrs./ Miss. ................
.......................... who is known as an officer in my office 
and is personally known to me, has signed this application 
in my presence on ................................ and that he/she 
is eligible to be exempted from examination fee since                                                 
he/she is appearing for the examination for the first time/        
the relevant examination fee has been paid and, the receipt 
has been affixed. 
    
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the attester and official stamp.
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
 Certificate of the Head of Department
i, hereby certify that, 
 (i) the particulars furnished above have been 
checked, 
 (ii) this officer belongs to the Combined Service/ has 
consented to be absorbed to the development 
Officers’ Service, 
 (iii) he/she has appeared/ not appeared* for this 
examination in a previous occassion,
 (iv) the receipt, paying the prescribed examination 
fee, has been duly affixed since he/she* has 
appeared for this examination in a previous 
occassion, 
 (v)  he/she* is eligible to sit for this examination. 
*strike off the irrelevant words.
 ––––––––––––––––––,
 signature of the Head of department and 
 official stamp.
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
09–644
–––––––––––––––––––
DEPARTmENT  Of  ExAmINATIONS, 
SRI  LANkA
Structured Interview for Recruitment to Grade 
III Posts of management Assistant Technological 
Segment 3 Service Category – 2019 (2020)
aPPLicatioNs are being called from qualified Sri 
Lankan citizens for recruitment to the following posts of 
management assistants' technological segment 3 service 
category of the department of Examinations, sri Lanka.
Consecutive 
No.
Post No. of 
vacancies
01 offset Litho Printing 
machine operator 14
02 Letterpress machine 
operator 03
03 Preprinting Planner 01
04 computer typesetter and 
Printing designer 08
05 Printing finisher 02
06 Printing mechanic 02
01. Method of Recruitment.– among the candidates who 
perfected the qualifications indicated in the notification 
and who obtained highest marks as per the results obtained 
at a structured interview conducted by the commissioner 
General of Examinations only in colombo and at a 
professional (practical) test which assess the practical 
knowledge and skills with respect to the post will be selected 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1466
to fill the vacancies of grade III posts of Management 
assistants' technological segment 3 service category. the 
structured interview will be conducted in accordance   with 
the marking scheme (indicated under No. 05) approved by 
the commissioner General of Examinations. 
the commissioner General of Examinations will decide 
the date to conduct the structured interview.
02. Qualifications :
 i. General Qualifications :
 • the applicant should be a sri Lankan 
citizen.
 • should be of excellent character and sound 
health.
 • should not be clergy of any religious order.
 • should not be an unqualified person to 
be recruited to the government service in 
accordance with the paragraph V of the 
Procedural Rules of the Public service 
commission.
 • Should perfect the qualifications required 
for recruitment to the post in every manner 
at the deadline of the call of applications.
 • male applicants will be given priority as 
duties should be performed both day & 
night.
 • should not be less than 18 years and not 
more than 35 years of age as at the closing 
date of applications. in accordance with 
that only applicants whose birthdays are 
on or before 26.10.2002 and on or after 
26.10.1985 are eligible to apply for this.
 ii. Educational Qualifications :
 (a)  should have passed six (06) subjects in 
one sitting with credit passes for sinhala/ 
tamil/ English language, mathematics and 
two (02) other subjects at the G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination.
 (b)  the post computer typesetter and Printing 
designer only requires a credit pass 
for English Language at G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination, in addition to the above (a) 
qualification.
 iii. Professional qualifications :
 (a) should have obtained Level 5 of National 
V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) 
recognized by the tertiary and V ocational 
Education commission with regard to 
the fields of Printing Technology and / or 
Electrical technology or an equivalent 
certificate of the above fields recognized 
by the tertiary and V ocational Education 
commission for the post of Printing 
mechanic of Grade iii of class 3.
 (b) should have obtained Level 5 of National 
V ocational Qualification (NVQ) recognized 
by the tertiary and V ocational Education 
Commission or an equivalent certificate 
with regard to the respective field of 
each post recognized by the tertiary and 
V ocational Education commission for all 
other posts of Grade iii of class 3.
 (c) among the applicants who applied for the 
post Printing finisher, priority will be given 
to those who can copy films obtained from 
cameras on printing plates, develop the 
copied printing plates, compose letterpress 
to print a manuscript or a printed copy 
(composing) and operate process cameras.
 iV . Physical fitness : 
  all candidates are expected to be physically and 
mentally fit to discharge the duties of the post 
well and to serve in any part of the island.
03. Conditions to assign employees in service and service 
conditions :
 i. this post is permanent and pensionable. you 
will be subject to a policy decision made 
by the government in future on the pension 
scheme entitled to you. furthermore, relevant 
contributions should be made to Widows'/
Widowers' and orphans' Pension scheme. 
you should make contributions towards it in a 
manner stipulated by the government from time 
to time. 
 ii. these positions are limited only to the 
department of Examinations, sri Lanka.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1467
 iii. this appointment is subject to a probationary 
period of 03 years. the 01 st Efficiency Bar 
Examination indicated in the 3 rd  schedule of 
the Printing service minute of the department 
of Examinations, sri Lanka should be, passed 
within 03 years after appointing  to such post.
 iV . this appointment is subject to rules, regulations 
& conditions stipulated in the Printing service 
minute of the department of Examinations 
sri Lanka, the Establishment code of the 
democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka, 
financial Regulations of the government, other 
orders of the department, and other provisions 
and orders issued by the government from time 
to time.
 V . duties should be discharged both day & night 
on the necessity of the service and even on 
holidays industriously as per the availability of 
duties.         
04. Salary Scales.– this post has a monthly salary scale 
of Rs.29,840/-10x300-11x350-10x560-10x660-Rs.48,890/- 
(mt 1 - 2016).
05. the following marking scheme will be utilized for 
the structured interview:
 this structured interview will be held in sinhala, tamil 
and English media and the applied medium could not be 
changed later.
Main areas of awarding marks Maximum 
marks
i. Educational qualifications 30
ii. Professional qualifications 30
iii. Experience in the relevant 
field 35
iv. skills displayed at the interview 05
Total marks 100
marks will be granted within the boundary of maximum 
marks allocated for main areas of awarding marks 
indicated in the above table. the commissioner General of 
Examinations will approve a detailed marking scheme to 
grant such marks.
candidates should obtain minimum of 40% marks to pass 
the structured interview and after the structured interview in 
accordance with the nature of the respective positions, thrice 
the number of vacancies will be referred to the professional 
(practical) test.
Recruitments will be made to fill the existing vacancies 
in accordance with the order of priority of the applicants 
who obtained the highest marks at the professional practical 
test. 
06. examination Fee.– the examination fee is Rs. 250.00. 
This fee can be paid only to a post office or sub post office 
in the island under the revenue head 20-03-02-13 of the 
commissioner General of Examinations on or before 
26.10.2020. the receipt issued in this regard should be 
affixed on the relevant cage in the application, so as not 
to be detached. (should retain a photocopy of the receipt 
for future use.) Examination fee should be paid separately 
for each and every application submitted by an individual 
applicant. the examination fee will not be refunded under 
any circumstances and money orders and stamps will not 
be accepted.
07. Forwarding the application :
 i. application should be sent by registered post on 
or before 26.10.2020 so as to receive the address 
"commissioner General of Examinations, 
administration branch, department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka, P.o.box 1503, 
colombo". applications received after the 
closing date will be rejected.
 ii. a  specimen application form of the application 
that should be forwarded is indicated at the 
end of this notification. Applicants should 
prepare their applications using a4 size paper 
in such a way that paragraph numbers 01 to 06 
should appear on the first page and the rest of 
paragraphs should appear on the other pages. 
Name of the examination indicated on the head 
of the application should be indicated in English 
apart from sinhala in sinhala applications and 
apart from tamil in tamil applications.
 *  since applications which are not in 
compliance with the prescribed specimen 
application form and incomplete 
applications will be rejected without any 
notice, applicant should check and confirm 
whether the application is in compliance 
with the specimen application given in 
the examination notification, and whether 
the application is accurately completed 
subsequent to entering all information, 

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1468
and whether the details of the relevant 
receipt are included in the application after 
the respective examination payment and 
whether the receipt is pasted before sending 
the application.
 iii. “structured interview for Recruitment to 
Grade iii Posts of management assistant 
technological segment 3 service category – 
2019 (2020)” should be indicated on the top 
left hand corner of the envelope in which the 
application is enclosed. if an applicant wishes 
to apply for more than one post, separate 
applications should be submitted for each and 
every post.
 iV . applicant's signature should be attested on the 
application. the signature of an applicant of 
a certain institution should be attested by the 
head of the institution or an officer authorized 
by him and any other applicant should get his/
her signature attested by a head of a government 
school/ retired officer, Grama Niladhari of the 
division, Justice of Peace, commissioner of 
oaths, attorney – at –Law, Notary Public, a 
commissioned officer of three armed forces, a 
permanent government or local government 
staff grade officer, the incumbent of a Buddhist 
temple, chief monk or the incumbent of a place 
of worship or any clergy holding a recognized 
position.
 V . the applications that do not comply with the 
specimen application herein will be rejected. 
any complaint regarding loss or delay of 
applications in the post will not be entertained.
08. Appearing for the structured interview :
 i. all applicants who are in the age boundary 
mentioned in the notification and who have paid 
the prescribed examination fees and forwarded 
their duly perfected applications with the 
respective receipt on or before the prescribed 
date will receive calling letters to appear for 
the structured interview by the commissioner 
General of Examinations on the presumption 
that only those who possess such qualifications 
as indicated in the gazette notification have 
applied. 
 ii. issue of a calling letter to an applicant to appear 
for the structured interview does not mean 
that the applicant has fulfilled the required 
qualifications for this post.
 iii. once the calling letters are issued to the 
candidates, a press notice informing such 
issuance will be published by the department 
of Examinations, sri Lanka. applicants who do 
not receive their calling letters, even after 2 or 
3 days of such notification should inquire from 
the administration branch of the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka in the manner specified 
in the advertisement. When inquiring so, 
indicate accurately the name of examination the 
applicant applied for, full name of the applicant, 
National identity card Number and the address. 
in case of an applicant outside colombo, it will 
be more effective to forward a letter of request 
along with the above information, indicating 
a fax number to which the copy of the calling 
letter could be faxed in a rapid manner to the fax 
number indicated in the notice. When inquiring 
so, it will be advantageous to keep in hand the 
photocopy of the application form kept at your 
possession and the copy of the payment receipt 
received after paying the respective examination 
fee and the receipt of registration received when 
posting the application to prove any particulars 
asked by the department of Examinations.
 iV . candidates of the structured interview are 
bound by the rules and regulations imposed by 
the commissioner General of Examinations on 
conducting the structured interview. He or she 
will be liable to any punishment imposed by 
the commissioner General of Examinations for 
breach of such rules. 
9. Identity of the candidate.– the candidates should prove 
their identity to the satisfaction of the structured  interview 
board by providing one of the following documents :
 i. National identity card 
 ii. Valid Passport
 iii. Valid sri Lankan driving License 
also, candidates participating for the structured interview 
should arrive without covering the face and ears so as to 
verify their identity. candidates who refuse to verify their 
identities will not be allowed to face the structured interview. 
further, candidates should remain without covering the face 
and ears so as to be identified by the examination authority 
until the structured interview is finished and candidates are 
allowed to leave.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1469
10.  Furnishing false information.– if it is found prior to the recruitment that any information provided in the 
application you forwarded are untrue and inaccurate, your candidature is liable to be cancelled. if such untrue or inaccurate 
information is revealed after the recruitment, actions will be taken to dismiss you from the public service under the respective 
legal procedures. 
11. The commissioner General of Examinations reserves the right to fill or refrain from filling the vacancies.
12. In the event of any incongruity or inconsistency among the Sinhala, Tamil and English medium notifications of 
this notice, the Sinhala notification should prevail. 
b. SanaTh pujiTha,
            commissioner General of Examinations.
department of Examinations, sri Lanka
Pelawatta, battaramulla.
18th september, 2020.
sPEcimEN aPPLicatioN foRm
Y%S ,xld úNd. fomd¾;fïka;=j
l<ukdlrK iyldr ;dlaIK LKavh 3 fiajd .Kh iii fY%a‚fha ;k;=rej,g n|jd .ekSfï jHqy.; 
iïuqL mÍlaIKh - 2019 ^2020& 
deparTmenT oF examinaTionS, Sri lanka
STrucTured inTerview For recruiTmenT To grade iii poSTS oF managemenT aSSiSTanT Technological 
SegmenT 3 Service caTegory – 2019 (2020)
(indicate clearly the correct symbol/ number in the cage provided when it is necessary)
                           
Language medium to appear for the structured interview
Sinhala  - 2/ Tamil - 3/ English - 4  (For office use)
Post applying for
(indicate the number with regard to the post applying for in the cage)
Post title Number
i. offset Litho Printing machine operator 1
ii. Letterpress machine operator 2
iii. Preprinting Planner 3
iv. computer type setter & Printing designer 4
v. Printing finisher 5
vi. Printing mechanic 6
1. 1.1 full name (in English capital letters) :  ........................................................................................................................
   ....................................................................................................................................................................................
 1.2 Name with initials while providing initials at the end:  ..............................................................................................
  (in English capital letters) Ex: baNdaRa a.b.c.
  1.3 full name (in sinhala/ tamil) : ...................................................................................................................................
   ....................................................................................................................................................................................

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1470
2. 2.1 Permanent address (in English capital letters):
 ....................................................................................................................................................................................
 ....................................................................................................................................................................................
2.2 Permanent address (in sinhala/ tamil): 
 ....................................................................................................................................................................................
 ....................................................................................................................................................................................
2.3 a ddress to which the calling letter should be sent (in English capital letters): 
 .................................................................................................................................................................................... 
 ....................................................................................................................................................................................
3. sex : male – 0            female - 1 
4. National identity card No. :
5.  telephone Number :
6. 6.1  date of birth:
   year :                                month :                      date :
6.2 a ge as on the closing date of calling of applications: (26.10.2020) :
 years:                                 months : days:
7. marital status : married - 01      Unmarried - 02
8. Educational qualifications:
8.1  d etails of the G.c.E. (o/L) examination :
 year and month of the examination :......................................................................................
 index number :.......................................................................................................................
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01. 06.
02. 07.
03. 08.
04. 09.
05. 10.
9. Professional qualifications:
Course Year followed Technical institution NVQ level
91. i t is compulsory to submit a letter to the structured interview board which was obtained from the tertiary and
Vocational Education Commission confirming the respective NVQ level of each certificate you forward : .............
10. Experience gained in the relevant field :
 ...........................................................................................................................................................................................
 ...........................................................................................................................................................................................

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1471
11. Other educational and professional qualifications :
  ......................................................................................
  ......................................................................................
12. Have you ever been convicted by a court of law? in
case 'yes', give particulars :
 ……………………………………………..………… 
  ......................................................................................
13. details of the payment of the examination fee:
13.1  Name of the Post office to which the examination
fee was paid :..........................................................
       13.2  Receipt No. and date :.............................................    
       13.3  amount paid: .........................................................
Affix the receipt here so as not to be detached.
14. Certification of the applicant:
14.1 i  solemnly declare that the particulars provided
by me in this application are true and accurate 
to the best of my knowledge. i agree to bear the 
loss that could be incurred due to unfilled and /
or inaccurately filled sections in the application. 
further i declare that all sections herein are 
perfected accurately.
14.2 I am aware that I will be liable to be disqualified 
prior to the appointment and to be dismissed 
subsequent to receiving the appointment in case 
any information provided by me are proved to be 
false.
14.3 m oreover, i declare that i will abide by the rules 
and regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations on conducting the 
structured interview.
14.4 i  will not alter any information provided herein 
later. 
...............................................
   signature of the applicant.
date :...........................
15. attestation of the applicant's signature:
  i hereby certify that mr/mrs/ms ……………………… 
who submits this application is known to me personally and 
that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence  today. 
.........………………………...............
Signature and the official frank of the attester.
Name : …………………………………………
Post : …………………………………………
address : …………………………………………
date :..............................................................
16. t he applicants who are already in the public service
should forward their applications with the following
certificate by their respective institution heads.
i hereby certify that the aforementioned mr. / mrs. / ms.
.........................................serves this department and the 
information provided by him / her are accurate and in case 
he / she is selected for this position, he/she could be released. 
…………………………………………
Signature and the official frank of the 
institution /department Head.
Name : …………………………
designation : ……………………
address :…………………………
date : ………………………....
09–821
–––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of LAND
Survey Department
oPEN comPEtitiVE EXamiNatioN foR 
REcRUitmENt foR Posts WHicH REmaiN 
VacaNt iN sRi LaNKa tEcHNoLoGicaL 
sERVicE-2020
1.0 aPPLicatioNs are invited from qualified citizen of 
sri Lanka for the open competitive examination held for 
recruitment for the following mentioned posts in sri Lanka 
technological service which remains vacant in survey 
department.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1472
1.1 Posts which expected to be recruited
 t able No. 01 Posts which expected to be recruited
Serial No. Designation Number of vacancies 
to be filled 
Recruitment 
Grade 
01 building 
supervisor
these posts are available 
only in the head office 
colombo. the entire 
service period should be 
served in the head office
01 Grade iii
02 Transport Officer 01 Grade iii
1.2 Nature of duties of posts
 t able No. 02 Nature of duties of posts
serial No. designation Nature of duty/ main activities
01 building supervisor * Preparation of annual building maintenance plan 
* Propose the building maintenance process to the management
* supervising of working groups
* storing and management of raw material, instruments required for 
maintenance
*  taking measurements for payments and obtaining of recommendations
02 Transport Officer *  Providing of technical information that required for maintenance of 
vehicles owned by the department in proper quality for running.
* Providing of recommendations and technical reports required for repairs.
* checking of running condition subsequent to repairs. Examining on 
vehicle maintenance.
* Giving instructions for drivers.
* in case of accidents immediate investigations and providing reports and 
condemnation of wreacked vehicles
* Adjusting of vehicles for obtaining of environment friendly certificates.
2.0 the number of appointment and the date of appointment will be decided by the appointing authority. the 
appointing authority has power to keep all or some of the vacancies without filling.
3.0 Salary:
  t able No. 03
Grade Salary Scale Initial Monthly salary 
Grade iii
monthly Rs..31,040-10 x 445-11 x 660- 10 x 730- 
10 x 750- Rs. 57,550 
(mN 3-2016)
Rs.24,626/-
(in terms of provision of schedule ii in 
P.a.c. 03/2016)

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1473
Grade Salary Scale Initial Monthly salary 
Grade ii
monthly Rs.31,040-10 x 445-11 x 660- 10 x 730-10 
x 750- Rs. 57,550 (Will be started from the 12th sal-
ary step) (mN3-2016)
Rs. 28,684/-
(in terms of provision of schedule ii in 
P.a.c. 03/2016)
Grade i
monthly Rs.31,040-10 x 445-11 x 660- 10 x 730-10 
x 750- Rs. 57,550 (Will be started from the 23
rd sal-
ary step)(mN3 - 2016)
Rs. 34,506/-
(in terms of provision of schedule ii in 
P.a.c. 03/2016)
4.0. this post is permanent and pensionable and subjected to three (03) year probation period. since these posts are the 
posts available in the head office- Colombo, candidates should ready to serve the entire service period in the head office. You 
are subject to general conditions applicable to appointment to the public service specified at the beginning of this Gazette 
notification.
5.0. Qualifications :
5.1 Basic Qualifications :
(a) should be a citizen of sri Lanka.
(b) minimum age is 18 years and maximum age is 30 years as at the closing date of application.
5.2 Educational Qualifications :
(a) should have passed G.c.E. (o/L) examination in six (06) subjects in one sitting with credit passes for 
sinhala/ tamil/ English language, science, mathematics and another one subject.
(b) should have passed G.c.E. (a/L) examination in three subjects with two (02) subjects of combined maths 
and Physics in one sitting.
5.3 Vocational Qualifications :
 Having obtained the following mentioned vocational qualifications, in the field of mechanical for the post of 
transport and in the field of civil for the post of building supervisor.
(a)  National diploma in technology awarded by the university of moratuwa or Hardy technical collage 
ampara.
 or
(b) National diploma in Engineering awarded by the National apprenticeship and industrial training authority.
 or
(c) Higher National diploma in Engineering awarded by the ministry of Education and Higher Education.
 or
(d) diploma in technology awarded by the open University of sri Lanka.
 or
(e) successful completion of part i of the Engineering examination conducted by the institute of Engineering, 
sri Lanka
 or
(f) Other technological qualifications recognized by the Tertiary and vocational Education Commission as 
being equivalent in all respect to the Technological Qualifications mentioned above after obtaining views 
of the Ministry of Higher Education and the institutions by which the above mentioned certificates are 
issued.
5.4 Physical Fitness :
 All candidates should have physically and mentally fit adequate to carry out duties of their post.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1474
Note : it is compulsory of completion of 
qualifications relevant to the post by each 
applicant on or before the closing date of 
application.
6.0. Furnishing false information.– if it is found that a 
candidate has no qualifications to sit for the examination, 
his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, 
during or after the examination. if it is found that a candidate 
has purposely furnished false information or willfully 
suppressed any material fact, after the recruitment he or she 
will be liable for dismissal from the public service.
7. Method of recruitment :
7.1 Written examination :
 the examination is a written test consisted of 
two subjects. this examination will be held in 
sinhala, tamil and English mediums and the 
medium applied for will not be allowed to change 
subsequently.
Subject
Total marks 
which can be 
obtained
Minimum 
percentage 
which should 
be obtained for 
pass
intelligence test 100 40%
subject related 
technological paper 100 40%
7.2 Syllabus :
1. Intelligence test :
 consisted of questions to judge the rationality 
of thinking, analytical ability of thinking and 
ability for making decision of the candidate.
2. Subject related Technological Paper : 
mathematics algebra (inequalities, 
variables, grades, logarithsm) trigonometry 
(equations, solving of triangles) statistics 
(mean, mode, standard deviation, 
Probability)
3. Physics :
 Light and optics (Reflection and Refraction, 
curved surfaces of mirrors, Prism 
lense formulas of optics microscope, 
telescope newton’s mechanics (scalar 
and vectors, newton’s law of motion,  
momentum)
4. Miscellaneous Topics :
 introduction to geography (shape of the earth, 
topography etc...) the angle view of solid 
substances and derivation of projections
8. General Interview :
8.1 Number of candidates equal to the number to be 
filled of the candidates who obtained the highest 
mark of a written examination conducted by the 
surveyor General will be recruited in order of 
merits of results.
8.2 an interview will be held only to ascertain the 
qualifications and no marks will be given to the 
interview.
9.0 Recruitment: will be recruited to the Grade iii in sri 
Lanka technological service.
10.0 Preparation and completion of Application :
(a) the application should be prepared by the 
applicant himself using both sides of paper size 
21x29 (a4) as per the specimen application 
appearing at the end of this notice. the application 
should be prepared so as to include No 01 - 04 in 
page 01, No 4.1 - 10 in page 02, No 10.2 — 11.1 
in page 03, No 12- 14 in page 04 and No 15 in 
page 05.
(b) the applicants who are already in the public 
service or provincial public service should 
submit their applications through their heads of 
the departments and the applicants who are in 
state corporations, local government institutions 
should submit their applications through their 
heads of the institution on or before due date.
(c) applications should be completed in the language 
in which the candidate is eligible to sit for the 
examination.
(d) Certified copies of the certificates that certify 
your vocational qualifications should be sent with 
the application.

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1475
(e) all the applications which are not complying with 
the specimen application, examination fees have 
not been paid before due date and incomplete 
and of improper filling will be rejected without 
any notification. Candidates should bear 
consequences of improper filling of application. 
it would be useful to retain a photocopy of the 
application. applicant should check to see 
whether the completed application is conformity 
with the specimen application mentioned in the 
notice. if not, the application can be rejected.
(f) Receipt of the application will not be 
acknowledged. No complaints regarding loss of 
applications in the post will be considered.
Note - the examination center applied will not be 
allowed to change subsequently.
10.1 on the presumption that only the candidates 
who have qualifications specified in 
Gazette notification, have applied, 
surveyor General will allow all candidates 
who have paid specified examination fees 
and submitted application on or before 
23.10.2020 to sit for the examination. the 
issue of an admission card to a candidate 
does not mean that he or she has the requisite 
qualifications to sit for the examination. If 
it is found at the time of interview that the 
applicant does not possess the requirement 
for this post, candidature for examination 
of them will be cancelled.
10.2 “Recruitment to posts of technological 
service” should be clearly indicated on the 
top left hand corner of the envelope.
10.3 signature of the applicant in the application 
should have been attested by a Principal 
of a Government school, Justice of peace, 
sworn commissioner, Notary Public 
Commissioned officer of three armed 
forces, an officer holding gazetted post in 
the police service, or an officer holding a 
permanent post in public service in tertiary 
or senior level as per the grading of Public 
administration circular No 06/2006.
11.0 examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 800/=. 
this fee should be paid at the cashier of the surveyor 
General office at No 150, Kirula road, Colombo 05 or at 
any of district survey office or at Institute of Surveying and 
mapping - diyathalawa. the receipt should be pasted in 
the relevant cage in the application form. (it is advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the receipt with applicant). the fee is 
not refundable in any circumstance and money orders and 
cheques will not be accepted. applications without receipts 
will be rejected.
12.0 Submission of application :
12.1 completed application should be sent by 
registered post to reach to the following address 
on or before 23.10.2020.
 surveyor General,
 Examination branch,
 survey department,
 No. 150,
 Narahenpita,
 colombo 05.
13.0  Appearing for the examination.– a candidates who 
sits for the examination should submit his/ her admission 
card to the supervisor in the examination hall. otherwise you 
will not be allowed to sit for the examination. candidates 
should sit for the examination only at the examination hall 
assigned to him.
14.0 Identity of a Candidate .– the candidate should 
prove his/her identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor 
for each subject he/she sits for. the following documents 
will be accepted for this purpose.
 i.  the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of persons,
 ii.  Valid passport.
15.0 Any matter not specified here will be determined 
by the surveyor General. all candidates shall be bound to 
act in terms of the general rules and regulations specified in 
this Gazette notification.
 a.L.
Shyamalie chiThraleka perera,
 surveyor General.
survey department,
colombo 05,
on the date of 17th september, 2020.

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1476
sPEcimEN aPPLicatioN foRm
miniSTry oF land
Survey deparTmenT
OPeN COMPeTITIVe exAMINATION FOR ReCRUITMeNT TO POSTS WhICh ReMAIN VACANT IN SRI LANKA 
TeChNOLOGICAL SeRVICe - 2020
the name of the examination mentioned in the topic of the specimen application should be entered in “English” in addition 
to sinhala in sinhala applications and in addition to tamil in tamil applications.
For Office use
medium of examination :
sinhala - 1
tamil - 2
English - 3
(Write the relevant number in the given cage)
the post applied (put the mark “X” in the box)
building supervisor
Transport Officer
1.0  1.1  Name with initials using initials at the end :––––––––––––––.
  (in English capital letter) Eg. PERERa a.b.c.
 1.2 full Name :––––––––––––––. (in English block Letters)
 1.3 full Name  :––––––––––––––. (in sinhala/ in tamil)
 1.4 National identity card No. :
 1.5 date of birth : year :           month :  date :
 1.6 age as at 23.10.2020:  days :      months :          years :
 1.7 Gender :  female - 1
     male 2
     (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 1.8 civil status : married :  Unmarried :
2.0 2.1  Permanent address :––––––––––––––. 
  (in English block Letters)
 2.2 Permanent address :––––––––––––––. 
  (in sinhala/tamil)
 2.3 the address which admission card should be sent :––––––––––––––. 
  (in English block letters)
 2.4 t elephone Number(if any) :––––––––––––––. 
3.0 3.1  Permanent Resident district :––––––––––––––.
 3.2  divisional secretariat :––––––––––––––.
 3.3 Grama Niladhari division :––––––––––––––.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1477
4.0   Educational Qualifications :
       (Certified copies of relevant certificates should be attached)
 4.1 details of G.c.E.(o/L) examination :
 (i) y ear and month of the examination :––––––––––––––.
 (ii) index Number :––––––––––––––. 
 (iii) Result: 
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
 4.2 details of G.c.E.(a/L) examination:
 (i) y ear and month of the examination :––––––––––––––.
 (ii) index Number :––––––––––––––.
 (iii) Result: 
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 3.
2. 4.
5.0 V ocational/Technical Qualifications (Certified copies of relevant certificates should be attached) :
 05.1 degree/course obtained :––––––––––––––.
 05.2  the name of the institution of which the degree/course obtained :––––––––––––––.
 05.3 duration of the degree/course :––––––––––––.
6.0 Other Qualifications :––––––––––––––.
7.0  Have you ever been convicted in a court of law for any offence (indicate the mark “P”  in the relevant cage) :
  y es   No
 
 7.1 if “yes” give details :––––––––––––––.
8.0 if the applicant had previously served in Public/Provincial Public service and then resigned the reason for such 
resignation :––––––––––––––.
9.0 details of payment of examination fees :
 (i) Office at which the payment made :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Receipt No. and date :––––––––––––––.
 (iii) amount paid :Rs. :––––––––––––––.
Paste the receipt which examination fee paid firmly here.
(Retain a photo copy of the receipt)

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2020
1478
10. 0 Certification of the candidate :
 (a) i declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge. i 
agree to bear the loss which can be resulted by incompletion of application and or incorrect filling of application. 
further, i declare that all the sections of this regard have been completed correctly.
 (b) I am aware that if this declaration made by me is found to be wrong, I would be considered unfit for the appointment 
and if it is found after the appointment, i would be liable to dismissal from the service.
 (c) further, i declare that i agree to comply with the rules and regulations laid down by the surveyor General in respect 
of the examination.
 (d) i shall not subsequently change any of the particulars mentioned here.
date :––––––––––––––. ––––––––––––––––,
  signature of the applicant.
11.0 attestation of signature of the applicant:
i certify that mr./mrs./miss .................................. who is submitting the application is personally known to me and he/she 
placed his/her signature in my presence.
date:––––––––––––––. –––––––––––––,
 signature of attester.
full Name of the attester :––––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––––.
(By affixing the official seal)
12.0 Applicable only for the officers who are already in the government or semi government institutions.
Attestation of the head of the department/institution:
mr./mrs./miss ................................................. who submitted this application is serving in this department/institution 
from .............................. to ................................ and it has not been reported unfinished disciplinary charges against him/her. 
His/Her work behavior and attendance is satisfactory/unsatisfactory. it is informed that prescribed examination fees have 
been paid and the receipt has been pasted, if he/she selected to the post of ..............................  it can be/cannot be released 
from the department/institution.
date:––––––––––––––. –––––––––––––––,
 signature of the Head of the branch.
09–810
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  sRi  LaNKa.