

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of August 04, 2017
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 08. 08. 2017)
SUKYO  MAHIKARI  SRI  LANKA
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Sukyo Mahikari Sri Lanka
To  be presented in Parliament by Hon. K. K. Piyadasa, M. P. for
Nuwaraeliya District
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
(Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Sukyo Mahikari Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SUKYO MAHIKARI SRI LANKA
WHEREAS an Foundation called and known as the “Sukyo
Mahikari Sri Lanka” has been established in Sri Lanka as a
spiritual body, for the purpose of effectually carrying out
and transacting all objects and matters connected with the
said Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its
members :
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Sukyo Mahikari
Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2017.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as presently are members of
Sukyo Mahikari Sri Lanka” (hereinafter referred to as “the
Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
(hereinafter  referred to as “the Corporation”) with perpetual
succession under the name and style of  the “Sukyo Mahikari
Sri Lanka”, and by that name may sue and be sued in all
Courts, with full  power and authority to have and use a
common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to spread the teachings of Mahikari in Sri Lanka
and to hold seminars and study classes in
pursuance thereof;
Short title.
Incorporation
of Sukyo
Mahikari Sri
Lanka.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
10
Preamble.
5
15
20
25
30
2—PL 005337 - 300 (07/2017)

<!-- page 3 -->

Sukyo Mahikari Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
2
(b) to give Divine Light (True Light) to its own members
and other members of the general public;
(c) to have close contacts and obtain guidances from
Mahikari Centres in other countries and to establish
official centres Islandwide;
(d) to establish and maintain affiliation with Sukyo
Mahikari, japan;
(e) to publish articles, periodicals or other such
literature and information as may be seen necessary
or useful to serve the objects of the Foundation;
(f) to provide the welfare of persons employed by the
Foundation as required by law;
(g) to set up and promote Yoko Farming (Organic
Spiritual Farming); and
(h) to take all other steps as are necessary or desirable for
the promotion of the above mentioned objects.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
what so ever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them including the power to open, operate and close bank
accounts, in Sri Lanka and abroad, to enter in to all contracts
and agreements as may be necessary, to borrow or raise money
with or without security, to give, receive or collect  grants,
donations, subsidies, subscriptions whether in cash or kind,
to invest its funds in local and foreign investments with the
view of raising funds of the Corporation, to engage, employ
and dismiss officers and servants required for the carring
out of the objects of the Corporation.
10
5
15
20
25
Powers of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Sukyo Mahikari Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
5. (1) The management of the affairs of the Corporation
shall be subject to the rules of the Corporation, be
administerd by a Board of Directors consisting of Chairman,
Vice Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer and up to three Directors,
as deemed necessary.
(2) The Spiritual Leader of Sukyo Mahikari, Japan shall
be the Governing Director of the Corporation and he/she
shall appoint the Chairman of the Corporation.
(3) The first Board of Directors of the Foundation shall be
the Board of Directors of the Corpoation holding office on
the day proceeding the date of commencement of this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time at any Meeting of the Corporation and by a majority of
not less than two-thirds of the members of the Board
of Directors including the Chairman and the Secretary
Present and voting to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for the
following matters:—
(a) the admission, classification of membership,
withdrawal or expulsion of members;
(b) for the election of office bearers, the resignation
from, or vacation of, or removal from office of office
bearers, remuneration of office bearers and their
powers, conduct and duties;
(c) the election of the members of the Board of Directors
other than the Chairman with the consent of the
Spiritual Leader;
(d) the determination of the powers, conduct and duties
and the terms of office of the members of the Board
of Directors;
(e) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
10
5
15
20
25
30
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Sukyo Mahikari Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
4
(f) for the procedure to be observed at the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board of Directors,
the times, places, notices and agenda of such
meetings and the conduct of business thereat;
(g) the quorum of any meeting shall be not less than 04
where the Chairman and the secretary shall
compulsorily by present;
(h) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation; and
(i) generally for the management of the affairs of the
corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded in like manner, as a rule may be
made under subsection (1).
(3) The rules of the Foundation in force on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of the
Act shall in so far, as they are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, or any other written law, be deemed to
be rules of the Corporation made under this section.
(4) The member of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
testamentary disposition, donations, contributions and  fees
deposited in the name of the Corporation in one or more
Banks as  the Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out from the fund, all sums of
moneys to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act.
10
5
15
20
25
30
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Sukyo Mahikari Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
8. (1) The Board of Directors shall cause proper accounts
to be kept of all income and expenditure by the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by and the correctness
of income, expenditure and the balance sheet certified by the
auditors appointed by the Board of Directors.
9. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall be
paid to the Corporation hereby constituted and all debts due
to, subscriptions and contributions payable to the Foundation
on the day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act.
10. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
acquire and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of purchases, grants, gifts,
testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act
and subject to the rules in force for the time being of the
Corporation and it shall have full power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or  transferred to an institution or institutions having
objects similar to the objects of the Corporation and which is
or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing any
income or property, among their  members of such institution
or institutions and at the discretion of the Board of Directors
of the Corporation of the dissolution or the day prior to the
dissolution.
12. The members, the Secretary, Auditors, Managers and
other Officers including employees for the time being of the
Foundation acting in relation to any of the affairs of the
Foundation shall be indemnified and secured harmless out
10
5
15
20
25
30
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
Accounts and
Auditing.
Indemnity of
members and
office
bearers.
Remains on
dissolution of
the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
35

<!-- page 7 -->

Sukyo Mahikari Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
6
10
5
15
Seal of the
Corporation.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
of the assets of the Foundation from and against all action,
costs, charges, losses, damages and expenses which they or
any of them shall or may incur or sustain by reason of any act
done in the execution of their duty, and none of them shall
be answerable for the acts, receipts, neglects or defaults of
any other of them.
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Chairman or Secretary and Treasurer who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or anybody  corporate or any
other persons except such as are mentioned in this Act and
those claiming by, from or under them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Sukyo Mahikari Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .