

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.12.2020
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2205$17 - 2020 foieïn¾ ui 12 jeks fikiqrdÞ - 2020'12'12
No. 2205/17  -  SA TURDAY ,  DECEMBER  12,  2020
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
THE policy statement “Vistas of Splendor and Prosperity” considers it is bounden duty of the Government to create the
necessary free and unhindered environment for media professionals to perform their duties. The Department of Government
Information issues Media Accreditations in accordance with the purpose of enhancing quality of profession and protecting
professional dignity of Sri Lankan journalists with the view to create a better media culture in the country.
A person who collects or edits news and information or transmits the collected information through electronic, print
or web media to the subscriber / reader is considered as a journalist in the event of issuing media accreditations.The
professional journalists who engaged in such activities are only eligible to be accredited by the Department of Government
Information.
Heads of all the Print and Electronic Media Institutions as well as Heads of the News and Current Affairs Sections
are instructed here by to recommend only Professional Journalists for Media Accreditations.
Head of the Institution / Director Information/ Chief Editor or the relevant authority, who certifies the list of
journalists submitted for media accreditation, should be responsible for the same.
The attention of respective parties is drawn to the following documents and criteria essential for the media
accreditation.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
G 33326 — 70  (12/2020)
DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  INFORMATION
Issuance  of  Media  Accreditation — 2021
Government Notifications

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.12.2020
2A
Print Media
1. Journalist - No. 01 and 02
2. Photo Journalist - No. 01 and 02
3. Provincial Journalists-PJ - No. 03
4. Freelance Journalists (F/L) - No. 04
5. Media Administrator - No. 07
6. Media Service - No. 01 and 09
Electronic Media
1. TV Journalist - No. 01 and 02
2. Radio Journalist - No. 01 and 02
3. TV Camera Journalist - No. 01 and 02
4. Presenter - No. 01 and 06
5. Media Administrator - No. 01 and 07
6. Technical Officer - No. 01 and 08
7. Media Service - No. 01 and 09
8. Web Journalist - No. 10
Government Media Officers
1. Ministry Media Officials - No. 05
2. Media Services - No. 09

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.12.2020
3A
Foreign Media
1. Local agents of Foreign Media (Foreign Media)- No. 11
2. Journalists who temporarily arrive in the country (Foreign Media -Temporary)-No. 11
01. Basic criteria and documents required
(i) An applicant should possess at least six-month service as a journalist in a reputed media institution on permanent
or contract basis. (Trainees are not eligible for the Media Accreditation)
(ii) The letter of request and the list of journalists prepared in a letter head of the respective media institution and
attested by the Head/ Director General/ Chief Executive Officer/ General Manager/ Chief Editor/ News Editor/
Director News/ Editor of media institution and should be furnished to the Director General of Government Information.
The name, Designation, Signature, and Official seal of the attesting officer should be indicated therein. The list of
journalists should be prepared in the format given.
Serial No. Name NIC Designation Division attached to
1.
2.
(iii) The officer who signs the requesting letter should certify each page of the list with his signature and official seal.
(iv) A photocopy of the official identity card issued by the media institution,which is attested as a true copy by the same
officer who certifies the list of journalists should be submitted for the verification of  designation. Signature and
official seal of the attesting officer should be indicated therein.
(v) In the event of not being able to produce the office identity card, a copy of the letter of appointment should be
submitted under the attestation of person who certifies the list of applicants. His/her signature should be indicated
therein with name, designation and the official seal.
(vi) Applications for Media Accreditation 2021 could be downloaded from w.w.w.dgi.gov.lk, the  Departmental Official
website or  w.w.w. news.lk, the Government official news website.
(vii) In addition to the entire list of names, it is compulsory that each of the application should be certified by the Director
General/ Chief Executive Officer/ Managing Director/ Chief Editor/ News Editor/ Manager Information/ Chief Editor/
Director News of the respective media institution with his signature and official seal.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.12.2020
4A
(viii) Two colour photographs of the size of 1"x1.5" (2. 6 cm.x3.7cm.) taken within the last 06 months should also be
submitted with the application. One of these photographs should be affixed to the relevant cage of the application.
Blurred photographs or photographs smaller than prescribed size will be rejected.
(ix) The validity of Media Accreditations for 2021 expires on December 31, 2021.
02. Institutional / Staff Journalists
Staff journalists working in print and electronic media institutions should fulfill ‘i’ to ‘ix’ requirements indicated in
(01) above. Newspapers, radio, television, web journalists and photo / video camera journalists fall into this category.
03. Regional Correspondents
(i) Media Accreditations have already been issued to Regional Correspondents for the years 2020/2021. However, only
applicants who have not yet applied and whose application has been rejected can apply for the media accredita-
tions. A clear photocopy of the National Identity Card/ Valid Passport / Valid Driving License should be submitted
with the application. Incomplete applications will be rejected.
(ii) Respective Media Institution should submit a list of Regional correspondents, prepared in district wise, to the
Director General of Government Information with following details:–
(a) Name of the Regional Correspondent,
(b)  National Identity Card No.,
(c) Permanent Address,
(d) District and region covered by the correspondent,
(e)  Contact Number of the Regional Correspondent.
(iii) The list of Regional Correspondents should be furnished to the Director General of Government Information under
signature of the Head/ Director General/ Chief Executive Officer/ General Manager/ Director News/ Chief News Editor
/ Provincial News Editor of the institution. Each page should be certified by the same officer who certifies the list of
names and his name, signature,designation and official seal should be indicated therein.
(iv) The original and a soft copy of the regional journalists list should be furnished to the Director General of Government
Information and the soft copy should be emailed to 
www.media.accre@gmail.com
(v) Two colour photographs of the size of 1"x1.5" (2.6cm.x 3.7cm.) taken within the last 06 months should be submitted
with the application. One of these photographs should be affixed properly to the relevant space given in the
application. Blurred photographs and photographs smaller than prescribed size will be rejected.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.12.2020
5A
(vi) The heads/Chief Editors/News Editors/Provincial News Editors of Media Institutions are instructed hereby to
submit only the names of the active reporters who are currently engaged in reporting.
(vii) Applications could be downloaded from www.dgi.gov.lk or www.news.lk websites and completed applications should
be sent to the Director General of Government Information, No.163, Kirulapone Avenue, Colombo 05 under a registered
cover.
(viii) The term “Media Accreditation – Provincial Correspondent” should be mentioned on the top left hand corner of the
envelope.
04.  Freelance Journalists
Applicants must have worked continuously for atleast one year as a Freelancer with a nationally recognized
electronic or print media institution. The following requirements should be submitted for the verification of service:–
(i) Certified photocopies or CDs of at least 12 News/Feature/Entertainment News, on current events published
by the applicant within the last six months should be submitted.
(ii) At least one of the print or electronic media institutions to which the applicant provides news, feature
articles, timely programs should submit a letter in a letter head of the media institute requesting the Director
General of Government Information to issue freelance Journalist accreditation certifying that he/she has
been providing news or programs continuously to the respective media institution. The letter should be
certified by the Head of Media/Director Information/Chief Editor and his name, signature and official seal
should be indicated therein.
05. Government Media Officers
(i) Media accreditations of this category are issued to those who possess official appointments for the posts such as
Media Secretary, Media Director/News Director/Information Officer/Media Officer/ Photographer/Video Cameraman/
Media Assistants in Government Ministries/Departments/Government affiliated institutions.
(ii) The Secretary or Additional Secretary of the respective Ministry should submit a written request to the Director
General of Government Information attesting the names and designations of officers bearing the posts above who
are eligible to get media accreditations. The Secretary/Additional Secretary of the Ministry who certifies the list of
names provided should bear the responsibility of the same.
(iii) The request letter should be submitted with the institutional file number of the relevant government institution and
if not, the request letter will be rejected.
(iv) Officers those who hold positions other than the above posts in media units are not eligible to be accredited by the
Department of Government Information.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.12.2020
6A
(v) In case of media units of   semi government institutions implemented under a Ministry, the Director General/General
Manager of the institution should certify the list of officers and the applications.  His/her signature, name, designation
and official seal should be indicated therein.
06. Presenter
(i) Presenter Media Accreditations are issued to news and timely program Presenters in a reputed media institution.
(ii) Applicants of Presenter Media Accreditations must fulfill all the requirements listed under the topic ‘Basic Criteria
and Documents required’ above.
07. Media Administrators
(i) Media administrators who directly contribute the media administration of a nationally reputed media institution are
provided with Media Administrator accreditation. A Media Institution will be provided maximum of 3 Media
Administrator Accreditations.
(ii) Marketing Promotion Directors/Managers or other officers working in the Marketing Promotion field in a Media
Institutions are not eligible for the media accreditation.
08. Media Technicians
(i) Technicians, those who directly engage in field coverage activities of an electronic media institution, are provided
with Media Technician Accreditations.
(ii) Applicants must fulfill all the requirements listed under the topic ‘Basic Criteria and Documents required’ above.
09. Media Services
(i) Media Services accreditations are issued for those who directly involve in field news coverage outside the institute
collecting news and current events.
(ii) Applicants must fulfill all the requirements listed under the topic ‘Basic Criteria and Documents required’mentioned
above.
10. Web Journalists
(i) Web Media Accreditations will be issued only for the journalists in websites that report news and current events.
(ii) Web Media Accreditations are issued in line with  criteria prepared considering website usage, objectives, number &
hits, daily updates, etc.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.12.2020
7A
(iii) The respective website should be registered with the Ministry of Mass Media and Information for the year 2020/2021
and a copy of the registration certificate certified by a staff officer in charge of the Ministry of Mass Media should
be submitted  with the journalist application. However, possession of a website registration certificate from the
Ministry of Mass Media will not meet all the requirements for a media accreditation.
(iv) All news websites that apply for Media Accreditations should possess a Business Registration as a media company.
A copy of the Business Registration Certificate attested by a staff officer of the institution, from which it has been
issued, should also be submitted. His Name, Signature and Official Seal should be indicated therein.
(v) Applications for media accreditation submitted by a website will be referred for the recommendation of other relevant
government institutions if necessary. The accreditation process of a website is commenced on receipt of the
recommendations.
(vi) W ebsites  that have been updated daily and continuously at least for the last six months are considered for accreditation
and it is compulsory that at least 35% of such websites contain news and current information. In order to issue media
accreditation, a website must publish at least 30 news stories a week.
(vii) A website is provided with a maximum two Web Media Accreditations for each language.
(viii) In case   several websites were registered by a same person or company, only one website is eligible for the web
media accreditation.
(ix) Only the journalists engaged in web journalism are provided with web Media Accreditations and positions other
than web journalist such asWebsite Master /Website Administrator / Governor / Administrative Director etc. are not
eligible to obtain Media Accreditations by the Department of Government Information.
(x) A Web Media Accreditations are allocated for direct news websites only.  Other institutional websites are not eligible
for the media accreditation.
11. Foreign media
Permanent
(i) Only the Staff Journalists who hold permanent positions in internationally recognized foreign media institutions and
have been appointed as Representatives/Reporters in Sri Lanka are issued Foreign Media Accreditations.
(ii) Media Accreditations are issued only after the verification of information submitted by those foreign media institutions.
Documents Required:
(i) A Letter issued by head of the foreign media institution stating that the applicant is working for respective
media institution.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.12.2020
8A
(ii) A copy of valid passport / National Identity Card.
(iii) Two colour photographs of the size of 1"x1.5" (2.6cmx3.7cm) taken within the last 06 months should be
submitted  with  the  application.  One  of  these  photographs  should  be  affixed  to  the  given  space  in  the
application.
(iv) Where it seems further information regarding an application is required concerning an application submitted
under this category, the respective application will be referred to relevant sections and the media accreditation
will be issued on receipt of the reports required.
Temporary
Temporary media accreditations are issued to foreign journalists who come to Sri Lanka to cover news and special
events and to produce news documentaries.
Documents Required:
(i) A Letter issued by head of the foreign media institution stating that the applicant is working for respective
media institution.
(ii) Letter of approval issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
(iii) V alid Passport.
(v) Two colour photographs of the size of 1"x1.5" (2.6 cmx3.7cm) taken within the last 06 months should be
submitted  with  the  application.  One  of  these  photographs  should  be  affixed  to  the  given  space  in  the
application.
(iv.) The photo indicated in the passport will not be used for this.
General Conditions:
01. Application Deadline for the Media Accreditation 2021 is the 28th of February, 2021. Incomplete    applications and
applications received after the deadline will be rejected.
02. Monthly publications will be issued a maximum of 3 Media Accreditations and bi-monthly publications a maximum of
two Accreditations.
03. Media Accreditations will not be issued for quarterly, semi-annual or annual publications/magazines.
04. The certificate of registration issued by the Department of National Archives and 6 recent copies should be submitted
to verify the continuation of the publication.
05. Registration Certificate issued by the Press Council of Sri Lanka should be submitted in relation to each publication.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.12.2020
9A
06. Supplements issued with a particular newspaper will not be considered as a separate newspaper. In case of the
applicants of such supplements will be issued Media Accreditations under the name of respective major newspaper.
07. It is the responsibility of a Head of the Institution to retrieve the media accreditation card of a journalist who is
dismissed / resigned from a media institution and return the same to the Department of  Government Information. No
one will be accredited in lieu.
Media accreditations will not be issued under any other media institution with respect to a journalist/professional
who has not submitted his/her former media accreditation card to the Director General of Government Information.
08. Media Accreditations will not be issued to artists in the fields such as Cinema / Television / Theater and Dramatic Art.
09. Media Accreditations will not be issued for advertising agencies and video production companies.
10. In case of a missing Media Accreditation, a written request should be made to the Director General of Government
Information by the respective media institution for  reissuance of such Media Accreditation. The original police
report issued subsequent to a complaint on the lost Media ID by the respective police station should be submitted
with the requesting letter.
11. Journalists those who submit news/features/programs under aliases will not be accredited by their aliases.
12. No media institution will be issued media Accreditations unless it reports news and current Affairs.
13. Media Accreditations will not be issued in relation to guide books published in different subject areas or publications
outside the news and current information.
14. The Department of Government Information issues Media Accreditations for media purposes only. In case of a
misuse or in violation of media ethics, the Director General of Government Information has the power of cancellation
or withdrawal of the Media Accreditation.
15. Institutional / Staff Journalists are issued Media Accreditations once a year only. Requests made by the relevant
agencies from time to time will not be accepted.
16. Media Accreditations will not be issued to those who hold positions that are not directly related to media, such as
Management Services Officer / Coordinator.
17. Titles of Honor and educational qualifications will not be mentioned in the Media Accreditation. It indicates the
name and other relevant information of a journalist.
18. Media Accreditations are not issued for the official websites of Government Ministries, Departments and affiliated
institutions.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.12.2020
10A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
19. There should be at least five ‘news and programs on current affairs‘broadcasts per week for a cable television
channel to be issued media accreditations. Only the news division of such TV stations that fulfill the said require-
ment will be issued a maximum 6 media Accreditations subject to 2 accreditations per each language.  Certified copies
of licenses issued to registered cable television channels by the Telecommunication Regulatory Commission and
Ministry of Mass Media should be submitted with the application.
20. The Director General of Government Information possesses the final determination Authority of  media accreditation
and making appropriate alterations to the conditions and requirements above.
21. The Director-General of Government Information possesses the authority of investigation and           cancellation of
Media Accreditation of a journalist, in the event of complaints submitted regarding the use of printed, electronic, or
web media accreditations for personal achievements.
N
ALAKA KALUWEW A,
Director General of Government Information.
Department of Government Information,
Kirulapone Avenue,
Colombo 05,
08th December, 2020.