

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of November 17, 2017
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 20.11.2017)
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 18.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
AYESHAH  EDUCATION  TRUST
(INCORPORATION)
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. K. Kadar Masthan,
 M. P. for Vanni District
to incorporate the Ayeshah Education Trust
2-2d
This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
(Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Ayeshah Education Trust (Incorporation)
2—PL 010379—  300 (10/2017)
Preamble.
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE AYESHAH EDUCATION TRUST
WHEREAS an organization called and known as the
“Ayeshah Education Trust ” has heretofore been formed in
Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out its
objects and transacting all matters connected with the said
organization according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said organization has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated, and it will be expedient to grant the said
application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Ayeshah Education Trust
(Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2017.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Ayeshah Education Trust (hereinafter referred to as the
“Organization”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members
of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body
corporate with perpetual succession under the name and style
of the “Ayeshah Education Trust” (hereinafter referred to as
the “Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued,
with full power and authority to have and use a common
seal and  to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to provide tertiary level education social sciences,
Islamic Theological studies with special focus on
motherhood development;
Incorporation
of the
Ayeshah
Education
Trust.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Ayeshah Education Trust (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to provide short term courses on women
empowerment and family development;
(c) to develop skills and leadership qualities of girls;
(d) to conduct and hold seminars, conferences,
workshops, discussions, debates, art exhibitions and
similar activities for the purpose of promoting
knowledge and the arts;
(e) to collect, classify, print, publish and distribute
books, journals, and magazines;
(f) to promote, encourage, assist and foster activities
for the advancement of communal, national and
international understanding, religious harmony,
goodwill and peace amongst the people;
(g) to be a coaching centre for the General Cerificate of
Education (Advanced Level) Examination;
(h) to provide vocational courses for females in any
industry or trade using raw materials available in
the area; and
(i) to do all such acts and things not inconsistent with
the provisions of any other written law as are, in the
opinion of the Council of Management, conducive
to furtherance of the above objectives.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject
to the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation,
be administered by a Board of Management elected in
accordance with the rules of the Corporation.
(2) The first Board of Management of the Corporation
shall  consist of the members of the Board of Management of
the Organization holding office on the day preceding the
date of commencement of this Act.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Ayeshah Education Trust (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
5. Subject to the provision of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the furtherance of
its objects or any one of them, including the power to open,
operate and close bank accounts, to borrow or raise moneys
with or without security, to receive or collect grants or
donations, to invest its funds, to erect any building or
structure on any land held by the Coroporation, and to
engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants required
for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provision of this Act or any
other written law,  for the admission, withdrawal or expulsion
of members, the election of the Board of Management, for
the conduct of the duties of the office bearers, agents, officers
and servants of the Corporation, for the procedure to be
followed in the transaction of business by the Corporation
and the Board of Management and generally, for the
management of the affairs of the Corporation and the
accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made may
at a like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added to,
amended or rescinded.
(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund. All
moneys received by way of  gifts, bequest, donation,  transfer,
subscription, contribution or fees shall be deposited to the
credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the Board
of Management shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporation,
all such sums of  money as may be required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in carrying out the
objects of the Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
General
powers of the
Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.
35

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Ayeshah Education Trust (Incorporation)
(3) The moneys and property of the Corporation
whosesoever derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of the objects as set forth herein and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or otherwise, to any member of the
Corporation.
8. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
by a qualified auditor as may be determined by the Board.
(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—
(a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which,being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute.
9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Secretary or a member of the Board as may be duly authorized
by the Board and another member of the Board who shall
sign their names to the instrument in token of their presence
and such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Accounts and
Audit.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Ayeshah Education Trust (Incorporation)
5
10. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of annual subscription payable by
him to the Corportaion.
11. (1) With effect from the date of commencement of
this Act—
(a) all property, movable or immovable, of the
Organization;
(b) all rights, powers, privileges and interests of the
Organization and all the liabilities of the Institute;
and
(c) all books, accounts and documents of the
Organization, shall vest absolutely in the
Corporation.
(2) With effect from the date of commencement of
this Act and without prejudice to the generality of
subsection (1)—
(a) all debts due to and subscriptions and fees payble
to the Institutie shall be paid to the Corporation;
(b) all liabilities of the Organization subsisiting on the
day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act shall be deemed to be
the liabilities of the Corporation;
(c) all officers and servants of the Organization on the
day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act shall be deemed to be
officers and servants of the Corporation;
(d) all contracts and agreements entered into for the
purposes of the Organization and subsisting on the
10
15
20
25
30
Limitation of
liability of
members.
Vesting of
the
Organization
in the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Ayeshah Education Trust (Incorporation)
day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act shall be deemed to be contracts and
agreements entered into by the Corporation; and
(e) all action and legal proceedings institute by or
against, the Organization and pending on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act shall be continued and enforced as legal
proceedings instituted by or against, the
Corporation.
12. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law,
to take and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act, and subject to the rules inforce for the time being
of the Corporation with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
13. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains  after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other foundation or
foundations having objects similar to those of the
Corporation, and which is or are by the rules thereof
prohibited from distributing any income or property among
its or  their members. Such Foundation or Foundations shall
be determined by the Board at or immediately before the
dissolution of the Corporation.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic or
corporate or of any other person, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Ayeshah Education Trust (Incorporation)
15. No person shall be liable in any suit or other legal
preceding for any act, done or purporting to be done, in
good faith in pursuance of the powers conferred by or under
this Act, or for the purpose of carring out the provisions of
this Act.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
Indemnity
for acts done
in good faith.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Ayeshah Education Trust (Incorporation)