

<!-- page 1 -->

YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notiﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to noti ﬁ cation 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  No-
tices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 3rd February,  2022 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 21st January, 2022.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the 
Gazette.” 
GANGANI LIYANAGE,
Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2021.
This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
 
PAGE 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... —
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
 
PAGE 
Land Sales by the Settlement Ofﬁ cers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province   ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
wxl 2"263- 2022 ckjdß ui 13 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2022'01'13
No. 2,263 - THURSDAY , JANUARY 13, 2022
                                
17 -  B 082307- 353 (01/2022)
Note.- (i) Value Added Tax (Amendment)   Bill was  published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic  Socialist   
Republic of Sri Lanka of  January 07, 2022.
(ii) Special goods and Services Tax Bill was published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic  Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of  January 07, 2022.
18

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'13
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2022
18
Miscellaneous  Land Notices
Land Commissioner General's No.: 4/10/65065;  
Land Commissioner's No.:  HDS/LND/3/F/01/190.                                       
NOTIFICATION  UNDER  STATE  LAND 
REGULATION No. 21(2)
IT is hereby noticed that for Commercial Purpose, Mrs. Aluth 
Patabendige Thusitha Priyadarshana has requested on lease a 
state land containing in extent about 20 perches marked as Lot 
No. A in tracing  No. H/HAM/LC/20020/18A situated in the 
Village of Sirbopura which belongs to the Grama Niladhari 
Division of Sirbopura coming within the area of authority 
of Hambanthota Divisional Secretariat in the District of 
Hambantota.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested.
On the North by   :  Lot No. B in H/HAM/LC/ 
20020/18;
On the East by   :  Reservation for Dry canal (03 
test);
On the South by   :  Matara - Weeravila Road;
On the West by  :  Lot No. B in H/HAM/LC/ 
20020/18.
03. The land requested can be given on  lease for the 
necessary purpose. Therefore, the government has 
intended to lease out the land subject to other government 
approved conditions and the following conditions :
  Terms of the  lease  : Thirty Years. (30)  (From 
22.04.2021 onwards)
  Annual amount of the lease  :  2% of the marked value 
of the land, as per valuation of the chief value for the 
year of 2021, When the annual value of the land is less 
than Rupees Five Million (Rs. 5,000,000) for that  year. 
4% of the marked value of the land, as per valuation 
of the chief value for  the year of 2021. When the 
annual  value of the land more Rupees Five Million 
(Rs. 5,000,000) for that year. This lease amount should 
be revised once in every ﬁve years and 20% of the 
lease amount charged in the ﬁnal year of the preceding 
05 years period should be added to the annual lease 
amount.
  Premium : Not charged. 
 (a) The lessee must not use this land for any purposes 
other than for the purpose of Commercial activities;
 (b) This lessee must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop the said land, in such a 
manner as to captivate the mind of the Divisional 
Secretary/ Provincial land commissioner/ Deputy Land 
Commissioner;
 (c) This lease must also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional 
Secretary and by other institutions;
 (d) The building constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair; 
 (e) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of the lessees to substantiate within 
the speci ﬁed time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease;
 ( f) No sub - leasing can be done until the expiry of a 
minimum period of 05 years from 22.04.2021 Except 
sub leasing or transferring to fulﬁl the purpose of this 
lease;
 ( g) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will  ipso facto 
lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within 
six weeks of the date this not is published in the Gazette  to 
the effect that this land must not be given on lease, the land 
will be leased out as requested.
 M. L. A. S
ANJEEWA,
  Assistant Land Commissioner For Land
  Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department, 
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
"Mihikatha Medura", 
 Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
13th  January, 2022.
01-112
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.