

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs. 19.00  Postage  :  Rs. 7.50
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 16, 2005
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 15th September, 2005]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
SRI LANKA TRANSPORT BOARD
ACT,  No.  27  OF  2005

<!-- page 2 -->

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 20051
 [Certified on 15th September, 2005]
L.D. —O. 31/2005.
A N  ACT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  THE  SRI LANKA
TRANSPORT  BOARD ; TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  REPEAL  OF  THE  SRI LANKA
TRANSPORT  BOARD  LAW , NO . 19 OF  1978 AND  FOR  CONSEQUENTIAL
A MENDMENTS  TO  THE  NA TIONAL  TRANSPORT  COMMISSION  ACT ,
N O . 37 OF  1991; AND  FOR  MA TTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR
INCIDENTAL  THERETO .”;
WHEREAS the Motor Transport Act, No. 48 of 1957, which
established the Ceylon Transport Board, was repealed by the
Sri Lanka Central Transport Board Law, No. 19 of 1978, which
in turn established the Sri Lanka Central Transport Board
and Nine Regional Transport Boards to whom the task of
providing transport services was entrusted:
AND WHEREAS  the National Transport Commission Act,
No.37 of 1991 established the National Transport
Commission which was charged with the task of regulating
the transport services which were being provided by the
Sri Lanka Central Transport Board and the Peoplised
Companies which were formed by the conversion of certain
Regional Transport Boards into companies in terms of section
2 of the Conversion of Public Corporations or Government
Owned Business Undertakings into Public Companies Act,
No. 23 of 1987:
AND WHEREAS consequent to the enactment of the National
Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 1996,
the Vavuniya Peoplised Passenger Transport Services Ltd.
and the Amalgamated Peoplised Bus Companies were formed
in terms of section 46
A  of the National Transport Commission
Act, No.37 of 1991 for the provision of transport services.
The Northern Regional Transport Company Ltd. formed in
terms of section 2 of the Conversion of Public Corporations
or Government Owned Business Undertakings into Public
Companies Act, No. 23 of 1987 was also mandated to provide
transport services :
Preamble.
2 —PL 000594—5,650 (08/2005)

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005
AND WHEREAS  it has now become necessary to vest the
Sri LankaTransport Board established by this Act with all the
assets and liabilities and rights and obligations of the
aforesaid companies and to provide for the dissolution of the
Sri Lanka Central Transport Board established under the
Transport Board Law, No.19 of 1978 along with the
dissolution of the Northern Regional Transport Board and
such number of Regional Transport Boards established under
the aforesaid law and which have not subsequently been
converted into public companies:
AND WHEREAS it is also required to take steps for the
winding up of the Vavuniya Peoplised Passenger Transport
Services Ltd. and the Amalgamated Peoplised Bus Companies
formed in terms of section 46
A  of the National Transport
Commission Act, No.37 of 1991 and the Northern Transport
Company Ltd. formed in terms of section 2 of the Conversion
of Public Corporations or Government Owned Business
undertakings into Public Companies Act, No. 23 of 1987 :
AND WHEREAS it has become necessary to make provision
for transport services to be cost effective and efficient by the
amalgamation of the various service providing organizations
and thereby centralizing the provision of all the related
services under one unit.
NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Transport Board
Act, No.  27  of 2005 and shall come into operation on such
date (hereinafter referred to as the “appointed date”) as the
Minister may, by Order published in the Gazette, appoint.
Short title and
date of
operation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 20053
 
PART I
SRI LANKA  TRANSPORT  BOARD
2. (1) There shall be established a Board which shall be
called the “Sri Lanka Transport Board”(hereinafter referred
to as “the Board”) and which shall consist of the following
members:—
(a) three ex-officio members, namely—
(i) a representative of the Secretary to the
Ministry of the Minister in charge of the
subject of transport, not below the rank of
Senior Assistant Secretary;
(ii) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
in charge of the subject of Provincial
Councils; and
(iii) a Deputy Secretary to the Treasury ; and
(b) four members appointed as Directors by the Minister
(hereinafter referred to as the “appointed members”)
from among persons who are professionally qualified
in the fields of transport, management, law, finance
or engineering.
(2) The Minister shall from amongst the appointed
members of the Board appoint a person to be the Chairman of
the Board.
(3) Every appointed member shall hold office for a period
of three years, unless he vacates, or is removed from, office
earlier. An appointed member who vacates office by effluxion
of time shall be eligible for reappointment.
(4) If any appointed member is temporarily unable to
discharge the duties of his office on account of ill health,
absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may
appoint some other person to act as member in his place.
Establishment of
the Sri Lanka
Transport
Board.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005
(5) A member may resign from the Board by letter
addressed to the Minister. The Minister may, if he thinks it
expedient to do so, remove an appointed member from office
for reason stated.
3. The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall be
four. An ex -officio member shall at all times be one of the
four members comprising the quorum. Subject to the other
provisions of this Act, the Board may regulate its procedure
in regard to the meetings of the Board and the transaction of
business at such meetings.
4. Any act or proceeding of the Board shall not be
deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence of any
vacancy among its members or any defect in the appointment
of any of its members.
5. The members of the Board shall be remunerated in
such manner and at such rates as the Minister may, in
consultation with the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance, determine.
6. (1) The common seal of the Board shall be in the
custody of such person as the Board may decide from time to
time.
(2) The seal of the Board may be altered in such manner
as may be determined by the Board.
(3) The seal of the Board shall not be affixed to any
instrument or document except in the presence of two
members of the Board one of whom shall be an ex-officio
member of the Board, both of whom shall sign the instrument
or document in token of their presence.
(4) The Board shall maintain a register of the instruments
or documents to which the seal of the Board is affixed.
Quorum for and
procedure at
meeting of the
Board.
Vacancy among
members not to
invalidate acts of
the Board.
Remuneration of
members of the
Board.
Seal of the
Board.

<!-- page 6 -->

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 20055
7. (1) In the exercise, discharge and performance of its
powers, functions and duties, the Board shall be subject to,
and act in accordance with, such general or special directions
as the Minister may from time to time issue in relation to any
matter that appears to him to affect the national interest or
efficient administration of the Board.
(2) The Minister may, from time to time, order all or any
of the activities of the Board to be investigated and reported
upon by such person or persons as he may specify and, upon
such order being made, the Board shall afford all such
facilities, and furnish all such information, as may be
necessary to carry out the order.
(3) The Minister shall, in issuing directions under
subsection (1) with regard to any matter affecting the functions
assigned to any other Minister, act in consultation with that
Minister.
8. (1) The Board may delegate to any member of the
Board or to any employee of the Board any of its powers or
duties other than those specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
subsection (1) of section 10 and paragraphs (b), (j), (k) and (l)
of subsection (1) of section 11.
(2) Every person to whom any power or duty has been
delegated under subsection (1) shall exercise or perform the
power or duty so delegated to him subject to the general or
special directions of the Board.
9. (1) There shall be established an Advisory Committee
for the purpose of this Act.
(2) The Advisory Committee shall consist of—
(a) a Deputy Secretary to the Treasury nominated by
the Secretary to the Treasury;
(b) an Additional Secretary to the Ministry of the
Minister in charge of the subject of Transport;
Minister’s
direction to the
Board.
Delegation of
duties, functions
and powers by
the Board.
Central Advisory
Committee.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005
(c) the following four representatives nominated by
their respective Institutions—
(i) Institution of engineers, Sri Lanka;
(ii) Ceylon Chamber of Commerce;
(iii) Chartered Institute of Logistics & Transport;
(iv) National Transport Commission; and
(d) three other members to be appointed by the Minister
in consultation with employees.
(3) The functions of the Advisory Committee shall be—
(a) to make recommendations to the Minister in charge
of the subject of Transport on the appointment and
removal of the appointed members;
(b) to advise the Board on all matters referred to it by
the Minister or the Board which he or it considers
necessary or expedient for the purpose of giving
effect to the provisions of this act including on the
Annual Plan referred to in section 10;
(c) to make recommendation to the Minister pertaining
to the efficient administration of the Board.
(4) The Advisory Committee shall regulate its own affairs.
(5) The quorum of an Advisory Committee Meeting shall
be three and the Advisory Committee shall elect one of its
members as Chairman.
(6) Every appointed member shall hold office for three
years unless he earlier vacates office by resignation, removal
or death. A member appointed to the Advisory Committee
who vacates office by the expiration of his term of office
shall be eligible for reappointment.

<!-- page 8 -->

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 20057
(7) A member appointed to the Advisory Committee may
resign from office by a letter addressed to the Minister.
(8) Where a member appointed to the advisory Committee
becomes by reason of illness or other infirmity or absence
from Sri Lanka, temporaily unable to perform the duties of
his office, the Minister may appoint another person to act in
place in terms of subsection 2.
PART II
D UTIES  AND  POWERS  OF  THE  BOARD
10. (1) It shall be the duty of the Board—
(a) to provde in consultation with the National
Transport Commission and relevant Provincial
Transport Authorities an efficient regular ominibus
service which is efficient and effective ensuring
economic viability,”;
(b) in order to achieve the above objective, the Board
shall prepare an annual plan embodying its
proposals identifying the manner in which
implementation is to be carried out, along with the
identification of the relevant stakeholders
responsible for the different proposals and the likely
time frames involved in the implementation of the
entire plan. An annual budget in relation to the
Annual Plan shall also be prepared accordingly;
(c) to conduct the business of the Board in such a manner
that the entire operations of the Board will be
conducted and maintained in order to ensure
viability of such operations to the maximum extent
possible;
(d)  to implement any other scheme or service in the
transport sector, that will enhance the quality of
public transport.
Duties of the
Board.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005
(2) Nothing in this section shall be construed as imposing
on the Board, either directly or indirectly, any form of duty or
liability enforceable by proceedings before any court or
tribunal to which the Board would not otherwise be subject.
11. (1) The Board may exercise all or any of the
following powers :—
(a) to acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire,
mortgage, pledge, and sell or otherwise dispose of,
any movable or immovable property;
(b) to employ such officers and servants as may be
necessary for carrying out the work of the Board;
(c) to do anything for the purpose of advancing the
skill of persons employed by the Board or the
efficiency of the equipment of the Board or the
manner in which that equipment is operated,
including the provision by the Board and the
assistance of the provision by others, of facilities
for training persons required to carry out the work
of the Board;
(d) to provide welfare and recreational facilities, houses,
hostels and other like accommodation for persons
employed by the Board;
(e) to construct, manufacture, purchase, maintain and
repair such other equipment as may be required for
the purpose of the business of the Board;
(f) to provide for passengers transported by the Board
such amenities as shelters or stations;
(g) to undertake carriage of newspapers, mails, parcels
or other postal articles for payment;
(h) to endeavour to provide occasional omnibus
services along routes considered by the Board to be
impracticable or difficult;
Powers of the
Board.

<!-- page 10 -->

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 20059
(i) to provide and maintain places at which omnibuses
of the Board may be halted;
(j) to enter into and perform all such contracts as may
be necessary for the performance of the duties and
the exercise of the powers of the Board;
(k) to make rules in respect of the administration of the
affairs of the Board; and
(l) to do all other things which in the opinion of the
Board are necessary to facilitate the proper carrying
on of its business.
12. The Chairman of the Board shall be the Accounting
Officer of the Board.
13. The Board shall appoint a person to be the Chief
Executive Officer of the Board who shall be a full time officer
charged with the responsibility of the management of the
affairs of the Board and the proper administration of all matters
relating to and arising out of the powers and duties of the
Board. The Chief Executive Officer shall receive such
remuneration and other benefits as may be determined by the
Board.
14. (1) At the request of the Board any officer in the
public service may, with the consent of that officer and of the
Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the
subject of Public Administration, be temporarily appointed
to the staff of the Board for such period as may be determined
by the Board with like consent, or with like consent be
permanently appointed to such staff.
    (2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Board, the provisions of
subsection (2) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis,
apply to, and in relation to, such officer.
The Accounting
Officer of the
Board.
Appointment of
a Chief
Executive
Officer.
Appointment of
Public Officers
to the staff of
the Board.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005
(3) Where an officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Board, the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 14 of the National transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to, and in relation to, such officer.
(4) Where the Board employs any person who has
entered into a contract with the Government by which he has
agreed to serve the Government for a specified period, and
any period of service to the Board by that person shall be
regarded as service to the Government for the purpose of
discharging the obligations to such contract.
15. All officers and servants of the Board shall be deemed
public servants within the meaning and for the purposes of
the Penal Code.
16. The Board shall be deemed to be a scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and the
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.
17. (1) Where any immovable property is required to
be acquired for the purposes of the business of the Board, and
the Minister, by Order published in the Gazette, approves of
the proposed acquisition, that property shall be deemed to
be required for a public purpose and may accordingly be
acquired compulsorily under the Land Acquisition Act and
be transferred to the Board.
(2) Any sum payable for the acquisition of any immovable
property under the Land Acquisition Act for the Board shall
be paid by the Board.
Officers and
servants of the
Board deemed to
be public
servants.
Board to be a
scheduled
institution
within the
meaning of the
Bribery Act.
Acquisition of
immovable
property under
the Land
Acquisition Act
for the Board.

<!-- page 12 -->

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 200511
18. (1) Where any immovable property of the State is
required for the purpose of the business of the Board, such
purpose shall be deemed to be a purpose for which a special
grant or lease of such property may be made under section 6
of the State Lands Ordinance, and accordingly the provisions
of that Ordinance shall apply to a special grant or lease of
such property to the Board.
 (2) Where any movable property of the State is required
for the purpose of the Board, the Minister may, by Order
published in the Gazette, transfer to and vest in the Board the
possession and use of that property.
19. (1) the Board may with the consent of the Minister,
or in accordance with the terms of any general authority given
by him, borrow temporarily, by way of overdraft or otherwise,
such sums as the Board may require for meeting its obligations
or discharging its duties under this Act:
Provided, that the aggregate of the amounts outstanding
in respect of any temporary loans raised by the Board under
this subsection shall not at any time exceed such sums as
may be determined by the Minister in consultation with the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.
(2) The Board may, with the consent of the Minister given
with the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject
of Finance, borrow money otherwise than by way of temporary
loan under subsection (1) for all or any of the following
purposes :—
(a) the provision of working capital;
(b) the provision of money for meeting any expenses
incurred in connection with any permanent work or
other thing the cost of which is properly chargeable
to capital;
(c) the provision of any money required for the purpose
of paying any compensation under this Act which is
payable in cash by the Board;
State property
both movable
and immovable
to be made
available to the
Board.
Borrowing
powers of the
Board.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005
(d) the redemption of any loan raised by the Board;
(e) any other purpose for which capital moneys are
properly applicable, including the repayment of any
money temporarily borrowed under subsection (1).
(3) The Board may, with the consent of the Minister given
with the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject
of Finance, borrow money for any of the purposes mentioned
in subsection (1) in any manner, as the Board considers fit in
the circumstance.
20.  Any funds of the Board which are not immediately
required for the purpose of the business of the Board may be
invested in such manner as the Board thinks proper.
PART III
FINANCE
21. (1) The Board shall in Order to ensure the financial
stability of the undertakings of the Board establish and
maintain —
(a) a depreciation reserve to cover the depreciation of
movable and immovable property of the Board; and
(b) a general reserve.
(2) The sums to be carried from time to time to the credit
of each of the reserves specified in subsection (1) shall be as
the Board may determine.
(3) The application of the moneys comprised in the
reserves of the Board shall be as that Board may determine.
Investment
of funds of
the Board.
Reserves.

<!-- page 14 -->

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 200513
22. (1) The revenue of the Board shall be applied in
defraying the following charges and shall be so applied in
the order of priority set out hereunder :—
(a) the working and establishment expenses (including
where applicable, allocation to the depreciation
reserve), in connection with the exercise and
performance of the powers and duties chargeable to
revenue account of the Board;
(b) the interest on any temporary loan raised by the
Board;
(c) the sum required to be transferred to any sinking
fund or redemption fund; and
(d) the interest on and the repayment of the principal of
any Government loan.
(2) The surplus of the revenue of the Board in any year,
which remains after the charges mentioned in subsection (1)
have been satisfied, shall be allocated to the general reserve
of the Board.
23. The Financial year of the Board shall be the calendar
year.
24. The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
shall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Board.
25. Unless otherwise specially provided for by this Act,
the provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38 of 1971,
shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to the financial control and
accounts of the Board.
Application of
the revenue of
the Board.
Financial year.
Audit.
Application of
the provisions
of the Finance
Act, No. 38 of
1971.

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005
PART IV
O FFENCES
26. (1) Any passenger in any omnibus of the Board—
(a) who evades the payment of the fare due from him;
(b) who wilfully refuses or neglects on arriving at his
destination, to quit that omnibus, hiring car or ferry;
(c) who uses or makes any obscene, indecent or
offensive language or gesture or behaves in any
manner likely to annoy or insult any person;
(d) who wilfully spoils any part of, such omnibus;
(e) who smokes or carries any lighted pipe, cigar,
cigarette or article for smoking in any part of such
omnibus in which a notice prohibiting smoking is
exhibited; or
(f) who throws out of such omnibus any bottle, liquid
or other article or thing likely to annoy persons or
to cause damage or injury to any person or property,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction by a
Magistrate be liable to a fine not less than two hundred and
fifty rupees and not exceeding one thousand rupees:
Provided that a prosecution shall not be instituted against
any person in respect of an offence under paragraph (a) if
such person pays to any officer of the Board, authorized by
the Board to receive such payments, a penalty of two hundred
rupees together with double the fare due from him.
(2) Any passenger in any omnibus of the Board who—
(a) does not retain with him throughout the journey the
ticket that is issued to him for that journey; or
Offences.

<!-- page 16 -->

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 200515
(b) fails or refuses to show or surrender such ticket when
called upon to do so by the conductor of that
omnibus or by any other person authorized by the
Board in that behalf,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction by a
Magistrate, be liable to a fine not less than two hundred and
fifty rupees and not exceeding one thousand rupees:
Provided that a prosecution shall not be instituted or
maintained in respect of an offence under this subsection
against any such passenger if he pays to an officer of the
Board authorized by the Board to receive such payment, a
penalty of two hundred rupees together with twice the fare
due from him for that journey.
(3) Any person—
(a) who fraudulently uses or allows any other person to
use any ticket issued by or under the authority of
the Board;
(b) who fraudulently imitates, alters, mutilates, defaces
or destroys any such ticket;
(c) who, without authority from the Board, sells, supplies
or distributes, offers for sale or supply or distribution,
any such ticket;
(d) who without such authority prints what purports to
be, or is capable of being used as, any such ticket;
(e) who wilfully damages or defaces any omnibus,
hiring car or ferry of the Board or any part of its
equipment; or
(f) who wilfully does or causes to be done with regard
to any part of such omnibus or its equipment

<!-- page 17 -->

16 Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005
anything which is calculated to obstruct or interfere
with the working of the omnibus or causes any injury
or discomfort to any person,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction by a
Magistrate, be liable to a fine not less than two hundred and
fifty rupees and not exceeding one thousand rupees or to
imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding
six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(4) Any officer or servant of the Board who, without
authority from the Board—
(a) opens or otherwise tampers or interferes with any
machine for the issue of tickets belonging to the
Board; or
(b) alters or tampers with any bill or receipt issued by
the Board,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction by a
Magistrate be liable to a fine not less than two hundred and
fifty rupees and not exceeding one thousand rupees or to
imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding
six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(5) Any person who travels as a passenger in any omnibus,
hiring car or ferry of the Board without having a pass in his
possession issued by the Board or without having purchased
a ticket, shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction
by a Magistrate be liable to a fine not less than two hundred
and fifty rupees and not exceeding one thousand rupees:
Provided that a prosecution shall not instituted or
maintained against any person in respect of an offence under
this subsection if that person pays to any officer of the Board
authorized in that behalf by the Board to receive such
payments a penalty of two hundred rupees together with twice
the fare due from him.

<!-- page 18 -->

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 200517
(6) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with
any provision of this Act or any regulation made thereunder
for which no other punishment is expressly provided in  this
Act or the regulations, shall be guilty of an offence and shall,
on conviction by a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not less
than five hundred rupees and not exceeding one thousand
five hundred rupees or to imprisonment of either description
for a term not exceeding six months or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
(7) Where any person is prosecuted for an offence under
this Act or any regulation made thereunder the burden of
proving, where relevant, that he had purchased a ticket or
that he had a valid pass in his possession shall lie on him.
(8) Any person who attempts to commit an offence under
this Act or any regulation made thereunder shall be guilty of
that offence.
27. Any person who commits any offence punishable
under section 26 may be lawfully arrested, without any
warrant or written authority, by any officer of the Board not
below the rank of an inspector of the Board, or by any other
person whom such officer may call to his aid or by any police
officer, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Code
of Criminal Procedure Act, and every person so arrested shall
forthwith —
(a) be produced before a Magistrate to be dealt with
according to law; or
(b) where it is impracticable so to do, be handed over to
the officer in charge of the nearest police station to
be dealt with according to law:
Provided that an officer of the Board, not below the rank
of an officer in charge of a depot or omnibus station of the
Board may release that person on his executing a bond, with
or without a surety as that officer may direct, to appear before
a Magistrate’s Court if and when he is so required to do.
Arrest of
offenders.

<!-- page 19 -->

18 Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005
PART V
G ENERAL
28. Any Company or other body of persons may,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any written law
or instrument relating to its functions, enter into and perform
all such contracts other than those relating to any handing
over of transport services, with the Board necessary for the
performance of the duties and the exercise of the powers of
the Board.
29. (1) No suit or prosecution shall lie —
(a) against the Board for any act which in good faith is
done or purported to be done under this Act by the
Board; or
(b) against any member, officer, servant or agent of the
Board for any act which in good faith is done or
purported to be done by him under the Act or on the
direction of such Board.
(2) Any expense incurred by the Board in any suit or
prosecution brought against the Board before any Court shall
be paid out of the funds of the Board. Any  costs paid to, or
recovered by, the Board in any such suit or prosecution shall
be credited to the funds of the Board.
(3) Any expense incurred by any such person as is referred
to in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) in any suit or prosecution
brought against him before any Court in respect of any act
done or purported to be done by him under this Act or on the
direction of the Board, shall, if the Court holds that the act
was so done or purported to be done in good faith, be paid
out of the funds of the Board unless such expense is recovered
by him in such suit or prosecution.
Power of
companies to
enter into
contracts
with the
Board
Protection
for action
taken under
this Act or on
the direction
of the  Board

<!-- page 20 -->

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 200519
30. No writ against person or property shall be issued
against a member of the Board in any action brought against
the Board.
31. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the
purpose of carrying out or giving effect to the principles and
provisions of this Act.
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality
of the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister may
make regulations in respect of the following matters:-
(a) any matter in respect of which regulations are
authorized or required by this Act to be made;
(b) guidelines and procedures for recruitment of officers
and employees to various positions including the
minimum qualifications;
(c) matters to be included in the annual budget and the
annual corporate plan; and
(d) guidelines and procedures  for procurement  and
disposal of assets.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of the publication or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.
(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval.  Any regulation which is not
so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date
of disapproval, but without prejudice to anything previously
done thereunder.
(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation is so
deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
No writ to issue
against person
or property of a
member of the
Board.
Regulations.

<!-- page 21 -->

20 Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005
PART  VI
REPEAL  AND  TRANSITIONAL
32. The Sri Lanka Transport Board Law, No. 19 of 1978
is hereby repealed.
33. On the appointed date—
(1) all officers and other employees in the employment
of the Sri Lanka Central Transport Board, the
Northern Regional Transport Board, the Regional
Transport Boards, the Vavuniya Peoplised Passenger
Transport Services Ltd., the Amalgamated Peoplised
Bus Companies and the Northern Transport
Company Ltd. on the day immediately preceding
the appointed date shall be deemed to be employees
in the service of the Board subject to terms and
conditions not less favourable than the terms and
conditions attaching to their employment under
their respective institutions. The services of such
employees shall not be terminated otherwise than
in terms of their conditions of employment or
through a V oluntary Retirement Scheme or on a
disciplinary reason;
(2) all the movable and immovable property of the
Sri Lanka Central Transport Board, the Northern
Regional Transport Board, the Regional Transport
Boards, the Vavuniya Peoplised Passenger Transport
Services Ltd., the Amalgamated Peoplised Bus
Companies and the Northern Transport Company
Ltd. on the day immediately prior to the appointed
date (including money in the funds of the respective
institutions) shall vest in, and be the property of,
the Board ;
(3) all such shares issued by the Vavuniya Peoplised
Passenger Transport Services Ltd., the Amalgamated
Peoplised Bus Companies and the Northern
Repeal.
Transitional
provisions
relating to
employees
property,
contracts,
rights,
obligations
and liabilities
of, pending
actions and
application
by or
against, and
unsatisfied
decrees or
awards in
favour of or
against, the
Board.

<!-- page 22 -->

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 200521
Transport  Company Ltd. in their respective
institutions, for no consideration, to their employees
or ex-employees and held by them on the day
immediately prior to the appointed date shall vest
in and be the property of Board established by
section 2 of this Act, and such employees and ex-
employees or any other person presently holding
such shares, shall be compensated in respect of each
such share at its par value, notwithstanding the fact
that such share is presently below the par value;
(4) all the contracts and agreements of the Sri Lanka
Central Transport  Board, Regional Transport Boards,
the Vavuniya Peoplised Passenger Transport Services
Ltd., the Amalgamated Peoplised Bus Companies and
the Northern Transport Company Ltd. on the day
immediately prior to the appointed date shall be
deemed to be the contracts and agreements of the
Board, and all subsisting rights, liabilities, including
all Employees Provident Fund, Employees Trust
Fund and gratuity liabilities, and obligations of the
above entities under such contracts and agreements
shall be deemed to be the rights, liabilities and
obligations of the Board;
(5) any action, application or appeal instituted or made
by or against the Sri Lanka Central Transport  Board,
Regional Transport Boards, the Vavuniya Peoplised
Passenger Transport Services Ltd., the Amalgamated
Peoplised Bus Companies and the Northern
Transport Company Ltd. in any Court or tribunal
and pending on the day immediately prior to the
appointed date shall be deemed to be an action,
application or appeal instituted or made by or
against the Board;
(6) any decree or award entered or made by a Court or
tribunal in any action, application or appeal
instituted or made by or against the Sri Lanka Central
Transport  Board, Regional Transport Boards, the
Vavuniya Peoplised Passenger Transport Services

<!-- page 23 -->

22 Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005
Ltd., the Amalgamated Peoplised Bus Companies
and the Northern Transport Company Ltd. and
remaining unsatisfied in whole or in part on the day
immediately prior to the appointed date shall be
deemed to be a decree or award in favour of or against
the Board, as the case may be, and may, subject to
the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code, or any
other enactment, in relation to the execution of a
decree or award, be enforced by or against the Board.
34. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
35. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
 “common time table” means a time table where the
operating schedules of all buses on a given route
are shown in a single panel;”;
 “immovable property” means land and includes land
covered with water, house, buildings and parts of
houses and buildings; and
 “omnibus” has the same meaning as in the Motor
traffic Act.
PART VII
A
MENDMENTS  TO  THE  NATIONAL  TRANSPORT  COMMISSION
A CT , NO . 37 OF  1991
36. The National Transport Commission Act, No.37 of
1991 (hereinafter in this Part referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended in its Preamble as follows:-
(1) by the repeal of paragraph (a) and the substitution
of the following paragraph therefor:-
“(a) to procure from competent State sector or
private sector omnibus services to meet the
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency
Interpretation.
Amendment of
the preamble to
Act, No.37 of
1991.

<!-- page 24 -->

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 200523
actual passenger demand on a scientifically
determined common time table;” ;
(2) by the substitution in paragraph (c) thereof, for the
words “unremunerative routes;” of the words “non-
remunerative routes, services and trips;”;
(3) by the repeal of paragraph (d) and the substitution
of the following paragraph therefor:-
“(d) to ensure healthy competition between
providers of such services and to prevent
unfair and unproductive competition;”;
(4) by the addition after  paragraph (d) the following
new paragraph :—
“(e) to ensure safe and comfortable transportation
by omnibus to the public.”.
37. Section 18 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following new section is substituted
therefor:—
18. (1) No person shall use an omnibus
for carriage of passengers for a fee or reward or
separate fare except under the authority of
passenger service permit for the time being in
force issued by the Commission or by a person
authorized in that behalf.
(2) For the purpose of this section, the power to issue a
permit to operate omnibus for the carriage of passengers
between two or more Provinces shall be vested with the
Commission.”.
Repeal and
substitution of
section 18 of the
principal
enactment.“Registration
on grant of
passenger
service
permits.

<!-- page 25 -->

24 Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.