

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
1377
1377
wxl 1"723 - 2011 iema;eïn¾ ui 09 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'09'09
No. 1,723 – FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 09, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1380
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1381
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 16th September, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 02nd
September, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.—  National Police Academy Bill is pubilshed as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka of August 19th, 2011.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
1378
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
1379
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
1380
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Medical Registrars of Births and Deaths
MATARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births and Deaths Registration Divisions and should be entitled to
properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 10th of October,
2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
24th August, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Matara Matara Post of Medical Registrar of Births and District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Deaths of Matara Town Division   General, District Secretariat, Matara.
09–330
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KEGALLE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
1381
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 10th of October,
2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
24th August, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Kegalle Mawanella Post of Additional Muslim Marriage District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Registrar of Uyanwatta (Dewanagala) General, District Secretariat, Kegalle.
Area of Galbada Kinigoda Koralaya
Division
09–331
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS  REGULATORY
COMMISSION  OF  SRI  LANKA  (TRCSL)
Examination for the Issue of Amateur Radio Operator’s
License by the TRCSL
1. CATEGORIES of Amateur Radio Operator’ s License :
(a) Amateur Radio Operator’s Advance Class License,
(b) Amateur Radio Operator’s General Class License,
(c) Amateur Radio Operator’s Novice Class License.
2. Minimum Entry Requirements.– Every candidate entering for
the examination must be fourteen (14) years of age or over on the
closing date of applications.
3. Scheme of Examination :
(a) Advance Class.– The examination consists of two parts :
Part 1:- Two (2) compulsory written papers to be
undertaken at one sitting :
Paper I - Advance Electrical Technology and Radio
Communications (3 hours) ;
Paper II - Licensing Conditions, Operating Practices
and Procedures (2 hours).
Part 2 :- Practical Morse Code Test(05 words per minute).
(b) General Class.–  The examination consists of two parts.
Two (2) compulsory written papers to be undertaken at
one sitting :
Paper I  - Fundamentals of Electricity and Radio
Communications (2 hours) ;
Paper II - Licensing Conditions, Operating Practices
and Procedures (1hour).
(c) Novice Class .– The examination consists of two parts.
Two (2) compulsory written papers to be undertaken at
one sitting :
Paper 1 - Basic Electricity, Radio and Electronic
Theory (2 hours) ;
Paper II - Licensing Conditions, Operating Practices
and Procedures (1 hour).
4. Conditions of Examinations.– The following conditions shall
apply to all categories of Amateur Radio License Examinations :
(i) To pass the examination, the candidates should pass all
papers of the examination.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
1382
(ii) Candidates must pass the two (2) written papers of the
examination at the same sitting.
(iii) Only those candidates who pass Part 1 of the examination
will be allowed to appear for Part 2 (Morse test) in case
of Advance class.
5. Medium of Examination.– The examination will be conducted
in English Medium only.
6. Examination Fees.– Applicants who conform to the
requirements of the examination are required to remit the examination
fees mentioned in this notification to the "Telecommunications
Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka". If further information in
this regared is required, the applicants are requested to write to the
TRCSL.
The examination fee is payable either by a money order or a pay
order/draft from any Bank drawn in the name of the
"Telecommunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka". The
entry form must be sent by recorded delivery on registered post or
delivered by hand. Official receipts must be retained as TRCSL will
not consider any claim that form has been overlooked or lost unless
proof of posting of delivery is produced.
Fees are not refundable  or cannot be transferred from one
examination to another at a later date. Any candidate who withdraws
his application or cannot appear for the examination due to any
reason whatsoever will be required to pay approximate examination
fee for any subsequent entry.
Category of Fee for Part 1 Fee for Part 2
Examination
Advance Class 276.00 138.00
General Class 138.00 -
Novice Class 138.00 -
7. Closing Date of Application .– The examination will be held
twice each year in April and October. The date of examination will
be informed by the Commissioner of Examinations. Applications
must be made on the appropriate entry form obtained from the
under mentioned office, completed, and submitted to the address
given below on or before the closing date mentioned below :–
Director General,
TRCSL,
276, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Manning Town,
Colombo 08.
Category of License Last Date of Entry
Advance Class
General Class 30.09.2011
Novice Class
8. Attestation.– Candidate's signature must be attested by one of
the following :
A Justice of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, an Attorney-at-
Law and Notary Public, Commissioned Officer of the Army, Navy
or Air Force, Gazetted Officer of the Police, a person holding a
permanent post in the State Service drawing a consolidated salary
of not less than Rs. 493,920 per annum. All other applications will
be rejected.
9. Identification of Candidates.– A candidate will be required to
prove his/her identity in the examination and for this purpose any
of the following documents will be accepted :
(a) A valid Identity Card issued by the Postmaster - General ;
(b) A valid Passport ;
(c) An Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration
of Persons.
All candidates are required to act in conformity with the
Provisions of the Examination Act, No.25 of 1968.
Any matters which has not been provided for under these Rules
and Regulations will be settled at the discretion of the Director-
general of Telecommunications.
Director General,
TRCSL.
No. 276, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Manning Town,
Colombo 08,
26th August, 2011.
09-213
–––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Open/Limited Competitive Examinations for Recruitment
to Class II, Grade II of the Sri Lanka Agricultural
Service - 2011
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts in Class II, Grade II of
the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service, given in para. 03 below, in the
Department of Agriculture which lies under the purview of Ministry
of Agriculture by order of the Public Service Commission.
02. Instructions to prepare the application and apply to the
examination :-
2.1 The applicants who apply for the open competitive
examination, limited competitive examination or both open
and limited competitive examinations should forward only
one application. The applicants who apply for the open
competitive examination, limited competitive examination
or both limited and open competitive examinations should
prepare their application in compliance with the specimen

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
1383
appended at the end of this notification. The application
should be prepard on a 8 1/2 x 12 inches (A4 size) paper
using both sides of the paper and should be clearly filled
by the applicant in his/her own hand writing. It should be
specially noted that the application is required to be
prepared as from No. 01 to 04 of the application on the
first page and remainder on pages 02 and 03.
2.2 Applications which are not in accordance with the specimen
application, not completed in every respect, altered using
correction fluids and the applications in which code numbers
and other information are scratched out will be rejected
without notice. It is noted that a photo-copy of the
application posted should essentially be kept with the
applicant and the applicant shall be ready to produce it if
necessary at the time of calling for the interview.
2.3 The name of the examination appeared either Sinhala or
Tamil Language in the application is required to be printed
in English Language also. Applications should be sent only
by registered post to reach the "Director General of
Agriculture, Department of Agriculture, Peradeniya on or
before 07th of October 2011. The words "Open/Limited
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Sri Lanka
Agricultural Service- 2011" should be clearly marked on
the top left hand corner of the envelop enclosing the
application.
2.4 Applications received after the closing date of applications
will not be entertained. The applicants who apply for the
Limited Competitive Examination should  sent their
applications through the Director-in-Charge of the Unit/
Secretary of the  Ministry-in-Charge of the subject of
Agriculture in case of a Provincial Council.
N. B.– Applications which are not in accordance with the
specimen appears at the end of the notification, not
completed in every respect and not in order will be
rejected without any notice. Applications should not
be addressed personally to Officials of the Department
or the Ministry. No complaint that an application has
been lost or delayed in the post will be considered.
3. Posts vacant, numbers assigned to the posts and examination
eligible to be applied for :-
Post Number Examination eligible to
of the be applied and the
post relevant No.
Agricultural Officer 1 Open/Limited
Research Officer 2 Open/Limited
Lecturer 3 Open only
Agricultural Economist 4 Open/Limited
Note 1 :
* Maximum number of posts can be applied for the open
competitive examination is two (02) and the posts should
be applied by one application prepared in compliance
with the specimen.
* Number of Posts can be applied for the limited
competitive examination is only one (01) and the post
should be applied by an application prepared in
compliance with the specimen.
* The applicants who are eligible to apply for both limited
and open competitive examination should apply using
one and the same application prepared in compliance
with the specimen.
04. Terms and Conditions of Engagement :-
(i) The posts are permanent and Pensionable. Any officer
who will be recruited to the post should make his/her
contributions to the Widows/Widower's and Orphans'
Pension Fund.
(ii) Officers appointed under open recruitments will be subject
to a period of 3 years probation. In case of an officer
confirmed in a post in the public service will be on trial
for a period of one year. Officers appointed through open
recruitments should also have passed the prescribed first
Efficiency Bar Examination before they are confirmed in
the post.
(iii) Applicants selected, should be agreeble to serve in any
part of the Island.
(iv) The appointment will be subject to the provisions of the
Minutes on Sri Lanka Agricultural Service published in
the Gazette ExtraOrdinary  No. 1235/21 of 2002.05.08
and as amended by the Gazette No. 1588/17 of 2009.02.11
and the Gazette No. 1619/25 of 2009.09.18 of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and any
amendments hereinafter made thereto. The provisions of
Sections 10 and 12 of Chapter 11 of the Extablishments
Code will also apply.
(v) Reference is invited to the General Conditions applicable
to appointments to posts in public service published in
paragraph (IIB) of Part 1 of this Gazette.
(vi) Officers appointed under open recruitments, those who
entered the service through English medium should inter
alia gain proficiency in an official language i.e. Sinhala or
Tamil during  the period of probation for confirmation in
the post. For the purpose of exemption from the Official
Language proficiency tests, a certified copy of the result
sheet or the original certificate issued by the Department
of Examinations to the effect that the subject of Sinhala/
Tamil has been passed at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination
should be submitted.
(vii) As per the Constitution of Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka, both Sinhala and Tamil Languages shall be
Official Languages of Sri Lanka. Therefore, the

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
1384
Government Employees are required to obtain the
competency in the Second Language so as to perform
their duties in both these languages within 05 years from
the date of appointment in terms of the Public
Administration Circular 07/2007.
05. Structure and the Annual Salary Scale :-
The consolidated monthly salary scale assigned to the post as
per Public Administration Circular 06/2006 is as follows :
* SL - 1- Rs. 22,935 - 645 x 10 - 790 x 8 - 1,050 x 17 - 53,555
* Recruitment will be made to Class II, Grade II of the Sri
Lanka Agricultural Service.
* Initial Salary step of Class II, Grade II - Rs. 22,935.
* Salary increments will be paid, if pass the relevant Efficiency
Bar Exmainations within the period prescribed.
06. Method of Recruitment. – Two Competitive Examinations
will be held by the Commissioner General of Examinations in respect
of the open and limited applicants. Although both open and limited
applicants will be compulsory to sit the first (General) Question
Paper given in the paragraph 14(1) and subject matter paper out of
subject matter papers given in the paragraph 14 (2). Open and
limited applicants should sit the subject matter papers separately.
Recruitment will be made on the results of the said Competitive
Examinations, in accordance with the provisions given below.
07. Open Competitive Examination :
07.1 Method of Recruitment :
(a) Appointment to the Post of Lecturer will be made
only from the open competitive examination 60% of
the vacancies in the Posts of Agricultural Economist,
60% of the vacancies in the Post of Reserach Officer
and 33 1/3% of the vacancies in the Post of Agricultural
Officer will be filled by open recruitments. However,
in instances where it is not possible to appoint by
limited recruitments, a number equivalent to the
percentage allocated under para. 08, the remaining
vacancies will also be filled from open recruitments.
(b) An applicant will have the option to apply only up to
a maximum of two of the posts, referred in para. 03.
(c) The number of marks secured in the question paper
prescribed under the 2nd paper of the 2nd Schedule of
Minute on the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service in order
to assess the knowledge of applicants in subject matter
shall be arranged and listed separately in order of the
highest number of marks and having added such number
of marks to the number of marks secured in the general
question paper, together and taking in to account the
options indicated in the application, a number of
applicants not exceeding twice the number of vacancies
out of the applicants who have secured 40% or more
marks for every prescribed question paper will be
called for an interview.
07.2 Other Qualifications :-
(a) All applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Age should not be less than 22 years and not more
than 30 years as at the closing date of application.
The maximum age limit for the officers who are
already in the Public Service will be 40 years ;
(c) An applicant is eligible to sit the open competitive
examination only thrice ;
(d) Applicants should be physically fit and it should be
proved by a medical certificate.
07.3 Educational Qualifications .– The under-mentioned
qualifications should have been fulfilled to apply for
scheduled posts of Class II, Grade II of the Sri Lanka
Agirucultural Service enumerated under I and II below :–
(i) The Posts of Agricultural Officer, Subject Matter
Specialist, Lecturer and Agricultural Economist :
(a) Four year Degree in Agricultural Science
obtained from a recognized University ; or
(b) Three- year Degree in Agricultural Science
obtained from a recognized University and Two
- year Postgraduate Degree obtained from a
recognized University with a thesis ; or
(c) Four-year-degree in Bachelor of Science in
Agricultural Technology Management.
(ii) The post Research Officer :
(a) Four-year-degree in Agricultural   Science
obtained from a recognized University ; or
(b) Four-year-degree in Science in the Subjects of
Botany, Chemistry or Zoology obtained from
a recognized University ; or
(c) Four-year-degree in Bachelor of Science in
Agricultural Technology Management ; or
(d) Three-year-degree in Agricultural Science or
Science obtained from a recognized University
with two-year-Postgraduate Degree obtained
from  a recognized University with a thesis in
any one of the following subjects. The relevant
subjects are given in note I.
Note 1 :
(e) Pathology
(f) Entomology
(g
) Soil Science
(h) Microbiology
(i) Agricultural Engineering Science
(j) Statistics
(k) Computer Science
(i) Bio-diversity
(m) Environmental Science
(n) Food Technology

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
1385
(o) Geology
(p) Genetics
(q) Plant Science
(r) Agricultural Science
(s) Agronomy
(t)  Plant Breeding
(u) Pesticide Chemistry
(v) Toxicology
Note II  : Applicants appearing in open recruitment should
have fulfilled all qualifications in respect of Degree or
Postgraduate Degree prescribed as basic educational
qualifications, on or before the closing date of
applications for the Examination. For this purpose,
the valid date of degree Certificate/Postgraduate Degree
Certificate should be a date on or before the closing
date of applications.
Note III  : Applications submitted on pending results in
relevance to the fulfilling of prescribed qualifications
will not be valid.
08. Limited Competitive Examination.– 66 2/3 % of the vacancies
in the Post of Agricultural Officer, 40% of the vacancies in the Post
of Research Officer and 40% vacancies in the Post of Agricultural
Economist will be filled according to the percentages allocated for
the posts held by the candidates at the time of sitting the examination,
as indicated in the following table and in terms of provisions given
in sub para 8.2 below. However, in instances where it is not possible
to appoint a number equivalent to such percentages, the remaining
vacancies will be filled from open recruitments.
Scheduled The Post held at the time of
Post Sitting the Examination
Agricultural Research Economist
Instructor Assistant Assistant
Garden Soil Surveyor Agricultural
Assistant Land Evaluation M onitoring Officer
Agricultural Officer Programme
Monitoring Agricultural Assistant (Agric
Officer Monitoring
Programme Officer
Assistant Programme
(Agric.) Assistant
(Agric.)
Agricultural
Officer 66.2/3%
Research
Officer 40%
Economist 40%
8.1 Officers Eligible :
The following officers who have completed a period of
05 years satisfactory service immediately preceding the
closing date of applications.
(a) The Officers holding Posts of Agricultural Instructor,
Research Assistant, Soil Surveyor and land Evaluation
Officer in the Special Class of the Sri Lanka
Technological Service.
(b) The officers holding the Posts of Agricultural
Instructor, Reserch Assistant. Soil Surveyor and Land
Evaluation Officer, who have completed a minimum
period of 04 years satisfactory active service in Class
I of the Sri Lanka Technological Service.
(c) The Officers holding the Posts of Agricultural
Monitoring Officer and Program Assistant
(Agriculture) who have completed a period of 05
years active service (An officer holding one of these
posts and eligible for the examination can apply
only one post out of the 03 scheduled posts given in
the above table).
(d) The Officers holding the post of Economist
Assistant, who have completed a period of 05 years
active service.
(e) The Officers holding the post of Garden Assistant,
who have completed a period of 10 years active
service ; and
(f) The Officers holding the posts of Agricultural
Instructor, Garden Assistant, Research Assistant,
Soil Surveyor and Land Evaluation Officer with
Degree in Agriculture or Science, who have completed
a period of 05 years active service.
Note 1 : Concession or promotions granted to an applicant
with retrospective effect subequent to the closing
date of applications will not be treated as fulfilling
of the prescribed qualifications for the examination.
8.2 Method of Recruitment :-
(a) Applicants should answer the general question paper
prescribe in Para : 14 of this notification for the each
post referred to in the Para 08 above and a question
paper prescribed in relevance to the subject matter.
(b) The applicants who have scored highest number of
marks out of the applicants who secured 40% or
more marks in every prescribed question paper will
be called for an interview.
(c) The final merit list for the limited competitive
examination in respect of each post will be prepared
by the department of Examinations after receiving
the number of marks awarded for seniority at the
interview by adding these marks to the total number
of marks secured at the written test and the list will
be forwarded to the Director General of Agriculture.
Recruitment will be made in the order of this merit
list in accordance with the Provisions of the Para 8.
09. Place of Examination and Date.– This Examination will be
held only in Colombo by the Commissioner General of  Examinations
during the month of November, 2011.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
1386
10. Examination Fees :-
The Examination fee
* for one post is Rs.800/=
* For two posts is Rs.1,000/=
* If apply for both limited and open examinations the fee
is 1,200/=
The Examination fee can be paid to any People's Bank branch in
the island to be credited to the Account No. 057-100179027204 of
the Director General of Agriculture in the People's Bank, Peradeniya.
For the purpose the Gen : 118 (P. I. V .) form which is obtainable
from any District/Divisional Secretariat or any Government
Department has to be provided to a Bank by filling its Head of
Receipts as 15/140 and other information and affix the receipts
given by the Bank with P. I. V . form which was placed the Official
seal of the Bank in the relevant cage of the application in one of its
edges so as to be not unglued. Further, it would be an advantage to
keep a photocopy of the receipt and P. I. V. form with you. The
examination fee will not be refunded in any circumstances.
11. Admission to the Examination :-
(a) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards to all applicants, whose applications have
been received. An applicant presenting himself/herself for
the examination must produce his/her admission card to
the supervisor of the examination centre. An applicant
who fails to produce his/her admission card will not be
permitted to sit the examination. The Sri Lanka Department
of Examinations will publish a notice in news papers soon
after the issue of admission cards to the applicants. Any
applicant does not receive his/her admission card two or
three days after the notification, should notify that effect
to the Department of Examination as mentioned in this
notification. It would be advantageous to keep certified
copies of the application form and receipts of payment of
the fee, receipt of registration of the application and in
case of applicants living out side Colombo the letter of the
request furnishing a fax number  to which the admission
card to be sent in hand at the time of notifying to the
Department of Examinations.
(b) An applicant must sit the Examination at the Examination
Hall assigned to him/her. Every applicant should surrender
the admission card to the supervisor of the Examination
Hall of the First day presenting himself/herself for the
Examination. It is the responsibility of every applicant to
answer the qestion paper prescribed for the examination
to which he/she presents himself/herself. A set of rules to
be followed by all applicants is published in this Gazette.
All applicants are subject to the rules imposed by the
commissioner General of Examinations in connection with
this examination. An applicant who  violates any of these
rules is liable to a punishment at the discretion of the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
(c) Issue of an admission card to an applicant does not
necessarily mean that he/she has the requite qualification
to sit for the examination.
12. Identification of the applicant.– An applicant will be required
to prove his/her identity at the Examination Hall to the satisfaction
of the supervisor for each subject he/she appears. For this purpose
only the following  documents will be accepted.
(a) National Identity card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons,
(b) A valid passport.
13. Scheme of Examination :-
i) Method of Conducting Examination :-
The Examination will be held in two stages. The
general question paper will be held on the same day
for both limited/Open applicants who have applied
for the examination in relevance to the all posts. The
subject matter paper will be held in the second stage
of the examination only for the applicants those who
have secured 40% or more marks in the general
question paper.
ii) Medium of the examination.– The examination will
be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media. The
language of the examination given in the application
will not be allowed to change later.
iii) An applicant must sit for all papers of the
examination in one and the same language.
14. Competitive Examination Procedure and Relevant Syllabus:-
As referred to the para 06 above all applicants should answer
the question papers 1 and 2 in accordance with the syllabus given
below.
(i) 1st Question Paper - General Question paper  :
Question paper consists of multiple choice and short
answers type questions to assess the language, mathematics
and logical ability. Time allowed is 1 1/4 hours. Total
number of marks is 150. The question paper is compulsory
for all applicants.
(ii) 2nd Question paper - Subject matter paper  :
A written aptitude test to assess the knowledge in
prescribed subject area. Each applicant should answer one
or two question papers chosen in relevance to the post or
posts applied for, from the question papers given in
schedule 01. The question paper consists of multiple choice
and short answers type questios. Time allowed is 02 hours.
Total marks are 150.
Syllabuses relevant to each post are given in schedule No. 01
15. Interview.– The interview Board will be appointed by the
Public service Commission. It will be chaired by the Director General
of Agriculture and the other members of the Board will comprise
two representatives each from the secretaries to the Ministries in

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
1387
charge of the subjects of the Agriculture and  Public Administration
and two Directors from the Department of Agriculture in relevence.
(i)  The open and limited applicants will be subject to an
interview in terms of the provisions of sub-para 07. 1 (b)
and 8.2 (b) above. At this interview documents and
certificates in proof of basic qualification of the applicants
will be examined.
(ii) Where as applicant has applied for two scheduled posts
and has secured sufficient marks for selection to both
posts, recruitment will be made taking in to account the
preference of the applicant and the number of vacancies,
as the case may be.
(iii) Marks for Seniority will be awarded only to the limited
applicants.
Note :- 1 Methods of awarding marks for seniority
The period of active service of an applicant with effect
from the date of fulfillment of prescribed qualifications
up to the closing date of applications will only be
reckoned for the purpose of awarding marks for
seniority. Marks will be awarded at the rate of 02
marks for each year of such active service and 01
mark for a period of such active service extending to
180 days or more, subject to a maximum of 30 marks.
Note : - 2
Marks for seniority will also be awarded in respect of a
period of satisfactory active service completed
subsequent to a period of 04 years of satisfactory
active service in Class II Segment "A" of the Middle
Level Technological Service.
16. No Certificate should be attached to the application.–
Applicants should prepare to produce the originals of the certificates
in support of the qualifications stated in their applications only at
the interview.
17. Furnishing False Information.– If an applicant is found to be
ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage
prior to during or after the examination. If any of the particulars
furnished by an applicant found to be false or if he/she has willfully
suppressed any material, fact, he/she will be liable to dismissal
from the public service.
18. If any confusion arises about applications or method  of
selection, the decision of the  Appointing Authority shall be deemed
final.
19. The final decision to fill all or part of existing vacancies will
be taken by the Appointing Authority.
20. Any inconsistency between Sinhala and English texts, the
Sinhala text shall prevail
By order of the Public Service Commission.
Secretary,
Public Service Commission.
No.177, Nawala Rd,
Narahenpita,
Colombo 05.
10th Day of August, 2011.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
P
UBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
OPEN/LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO CLASS II, GRADE II OF THE
SRI LANKA AGRICULTURAL SERVICE - 2011
Index No. :
(For official use only)
The Post/Posts relevant to the Examination applied for Medium of Examination (Vide the sub para 13.ii of the
(Vide 03.7 and 8 paragraphs of this Gazette notification) Gazette Notification. Indicate the relevant number
 in the cage)
The Post and No. of the Post The Post and No. of the Sinhala - 2
applied for the Open post applied for the Tamil - 3
Competitive Examination limited Competive Examination. English - 4
Post Post No. Post Post No.
1
2
01.  (i) Name with initials, stating the initials a the end :–
(a)  In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––––.
(b)  In English :––––––––––––.
(eg. JAYANTHA M. A. C.)

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
1388
(ii) Names denoted by initials :
(a) In Sihala/Tamil :––––––––––––.
(b) In English :––––––––––––.
(iii) Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Day :
(iv) Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years : Months : Days :
02. (i) Permanent address :- (Admission card will be posted to this address) :
(a) In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––––.
(b) In English :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Of ficial address (In the case of a Public Officer he/she should state his/her official address. Any change in the address should
be notified immediately) :
(a) In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––––.
(b) In English :–––––––––––––.
03. Sex (Indicate the relevant number in the cage) :
Male - 0
Female - 1
04. (i) National Identity Card No. :
(ii) T elephone No. :
05. Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka? (Indicate the relevant word in the cage) :
Yes / No
06. Educational Qualifications :
06.1 Degree Qualifications :
Degree/Degree obtained Academic year and the University Subjects Pass Medium
valid date of the degree
(Indicate clearly)
1. Four year degree in
Agricultural Science
2. Three year degree in
Agricultural Science
3. Four year degree in Science
4. Three - year degree in
Science
5. Two year Postgraduate
degree (with a thesis)
1.
2.
06.2 Two year Agriculture Diploma Course :
Academic year of Agriculture School of Agriculture/ Pass Medium
Diploma and the valid date of Institution
the Diploma (indicate clearly)
07. Whether you have sat the open competitive examination for recruitment to the S. L. Ag. S. before ? If so state the year/yea rs :––––.
08. Indicate bellow the qualifications obtained by the applicants of the limited Competitive Examination for eligibility to sit  the
examination in terms of para 08 of this Gazette Notification :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
1389
Present Post :
1. Research Assistant Post eligible to be Date of fulfilling eligibility
2. Soil Surveyor recruited under Limited to apply for the post of
3. Land Evaluation Officer recruitment Agricultural Officer, Research
4. Agricultural Instructor 1. Research Officer Officer or Agricultural Economist
5. Garden Assistant 2. Agricultural Officer (Date of fulfilling eligibility as per 8.1
6. Economist Assistant 3. Agricultural Economist of the Gazette notification.
7. Agricultural Monitoring Officer
8. Programme Assistant (Agriculture)
09. Have you ever been convicted in a court of law for any offence? Yes/No.
If yes, give details. :––––––––––––.
10. The receipts obtained on the payment of Examination fees Rs. 800, Rs.1000, Rs.1200 as relevant to People's Bank in favour of  the
Director General of Agriculture and P. I. V . form (General 118), returned to you, placing official seal of  the bank should be affixed from
one of its edges so as to detachable. (Indicate name of the People's Bank branch, amount and date of payment below.)
Date of payment Name of the People's Bank branch Amount
Affix the receipt and P. I. V. form in top edges so as to be not unglued.
11. Declaration of the applicant :
I do hereby certify that the particulars given by me in this application are true and correct. I am also aware that if any part icular
contained herein is found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification if detected before selection and to dimissa l with
immediate effect. If detected after the selection, and I will responsible for any lapse caused while preparing the application.  Further,
I agree to abide by the rules imposed by the Commissioner General of Examination. Further I declare that I have submitted only one
application.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
(If the applicant is employed in a Government Department the application should be forwarded through the head of the
Department or Provincial Department or Secretary of Provincial Ministry in charge of the subject of Agriculture.)
Attestation of the Applicant's Signature
I, certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs/Miss.......... is known to me personally and that he/her placed his/her signature in my
presence on this day of...... 2011. Mr./Mrs./Miss......... is employed in this Department/Provincial Council and I certify that  his/her  work
and conduct are satisfactory and he/she, has/has not earned all increments due to him/her during preceding 5 years and that there is/there
is no disciplinary action pending against him/her, and the receipt is affixed to the relevant place having paid the prescribed fee. If he/she
is selected, he/she can/can't be released.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the attester.
Date :–––––––––––.
Full Name of the attester :–––––––––––.
Designaton :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
1390
Certificate of the Director of Department/Director of the Provincial Department/Secretary of the
Provincial Ministry-in-Charge of the subject of Agriculture
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss........ is employed in this Department/Provincial Council as a......... and that his/her wo rk
and conduct are satisfactory and since he/she has fulfilled all requisite qualifications relevant to the post as per sub para. 08:1, I certify
that he/she is eligible in all respect to apply for the post and that there is/there is no/disciplinary action pending.
–––––––––––––,
Signature and Official Seal of the Head of Department/
Provincial Department/Secretary of the Provincial
Ministry in Charge of the subject of Agriculture.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
Syllabuses in respect of each post are enumerated below :
I. Question paper for the Post of Research Officer  :-
Applicants should answer only one out of the two parts referred to in (A) and (B) below, as they wish.
Part (A) :
01. Agricultural Botany :
Fundamentals of crop classification, fundamentals of crop growth and physiology.
02. Genetics and Plant Breeding :
Mendelian law, Population genetics, mutations, molecular genetics, cytogenetics, quantitative genetics, fundamentals of plant
breeding, genetic resources protection and bio-diversity, polination and breeding concepts, incompatibility mass and pureline
selection, pedigree, bulk and backcross methods of breeding, genetic desings, breeding methods of paddy, chilli, grains and
vegetables, current trends.
03. Plant Pathology :
How pathogens infect, plant response to infection, infective methods and fundamentals of their management, current trends in
plant pathology and disease management, diagnostic techniques, symptomatology, Koch’s postulate application, inoculation
techniques, detection and diagnosis of plant pathogens using modern techniques (ELISA) serology, DNA finger printing etc.,
current trends.
04. Fundamentals of Entomology :
Fundamentals of Classification of insects structural characteristics, biological information and damage, economic significance of
pest damage, estimation of insect population and damage.
05. Seed Technology :
Seed physiology, structure, morphology, germination, viability, testes on viability and purity, stages of seed production, seed
certification, seed storage.
06. Plant Tissue Culture :
Theories, requirement for tissue culture facility media, tissue culture systems, applications of tissue culture, protoplast cul ture,
mutagenesis, embryo rescue in vitro fertilization, genetic transformations, cry preservation.
07. Agricultural Chemistry :
Fundamentals of biochemistry and practical applications of  biochemistry in agriculture, fundamentals of food chemistry and
practical applications of food chemistry in agriculture, fundamentals of analytical chemistry and practical applications of
analytical chemistry in agriculture ; or
Part (B) :
01. Agronomy :
Agro - climatology, ecology, land development, tillage, fundamentals of crop growth and physiology, measurement of crop
growth, yield indices, fertilizer recommendations and efficiency, weed biology and control principles of water supply schemes,
principles of crop water relationship

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
1391
02. Crop Science :
Rice, highland grains, pulses, tuber crops, physiology of other field crops, growth methods of propagation, methods of planting ,
physical, chemical and biological methods in crop manipulation, establishment and management of scientific pastures, fundamentals
of timber and vegetable production.
03. Soil Science :
Soil formation, physical and chemical characteristics, soil problems relating to cropping, fertility management of soil, watershed
management, plant nutrients, fundamentals of soil classification.
04. Genetics and plant breeding :
Fundamentals, Mendelian law, population genetics, mutations, molecular genetics, cytogenetics, fundamentalss of plant breeding,
genetic resources protection and bio-diversity.
05. Plant Pathology :
How pathogens infect, plant  response to infection, biological management and modern trends in disease management.
06. Fundamentals of Entomology :
Indicated under Sub-section 04 of Question Paper (A).
07. Field Research Principals and Statistical Principals and knowledge in important statistics on agricultural sphere in Sri Lan ka.
08. Entomology :
Economic significance of insects in agriculture, their classification, internal and external characteristic features, structure  of
different systems and their functions.
Pest management, significant of pest damage, pest identification, their  damage and control, integrated pest management.
09. Micro-biology :
Micro - organisms and agricultural environment,  bio-technology applications in agriculture, soil living biomass and their effects
on agricultural practices.
10. Biometrics and applied statistics :-
Basic knowledge in statistics, experimental designs in agriculture, obtaining and analysis of data.
Note.– It will be compulsory for all the applicants who apply for the posts of Research Officer through Open Recruitments to
answer only any part of the 02 parts referred to as (A) and (B) above.
II Question paper for the Posts of Agricultural Officer, Lecturer and Subject Matter Specialist :
01. General Agriculture :
Climatic Zones of Sri Lanka, land development, land preparation and equipment, crop establishment, machinery used, soil and
soil fertility, nursery and nursery management, planting material, pest and pest control, plant protection appliances, cropping
systems, irrigation methods integrated farming, protected agriculture, micro-irrigation systems, harvesting and harvesting machinery,
post-harvest losses, processing of farm products, factors considered in selecting suitable vegetables, fruits pulses and cereal s for
cultivation in specific areas, integrated pest management, Integrated plant nutrition Systems, Plant Protection Act, Soil Conservation
Act.
02. Crop Production :
Agronomy, agro-climatology and ecology, land development and tillage, fundamentals of crop growth and physiology, measurement
of crop growth, yield indices, fertilizer recommendations and efficiency, weed biology and control, irrigation agronomy, principles
of crop water relationships.
03. Field Crops :
Introduction, ecological requirements, plant species and varieties, growth physiology, physiological principles of yield
determination, crop management and production, highlands, cereals, legumes, tuber crops and other important field crops
(tobacco, onion, fiber and oil crops).
04. Crop Management :
Intercropping, harvesting and processing.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
1392
05. Horticultural Crop Production  :
Fruit production, nutritional value, social and economic factors, origin and distribution,  ecological requirements, cultural practices,
application of modern techniques.
06. Fruit, vegetable and flower production :
Nursery management, orchard management, modern techniques in crop establishment and culture, fruit and vegetable crop
improvement, fruit and vegetable based cropping systems, post harvest losses and post-harvest biotechnology of fruits and
vegetables, local and export markets for fruits and vegetables, present constraints and future strategies, requirements, for
vegetable production, vegetable based cropping systems marketing floriculture, propagation techniques, cultural practices,
quality parameters, principles of landscape gardening.
07. Agricultural Extension and Training :
Introduction of agricultural extension and objectives, agricultural development and extension adaptation and diffusion of innovations
communication, teaching methods of extension, extension approaches used in Sri Lanka, relation between reseach and extension,
preparation of extension programmers, review and evaluation, institutions associated with agricultural extension in Sri Lanka,
adult education, training procedure, various techniques used in identifying training requirements, arrangement of lessons, evaluation
of training, use of audio-visual devices for training.
08. Seed Technology :
Seed physiology, structure, morphology, germination, viability, tests on viability and purity, stages of seed production, seed
certification, seed storage.
III Question paper for the Post of Agricultural Economist :
01. Agricultural Production, Economics and Farm Management  ::
Importance of farm management in agricultural production, basic concepts, production functions, forms of production functions,
production surfaces, ISO-quarts, ISO-clines, ISO-revenue lines, principles of resources combination and cost minimization,
principles of diminishing returns, substitution and income effects, risk and uncertainty in agriculture, adjustments of product ion
to meet uncertainty, flexibility and diversification, price theory with special emphasis relating  to pricing of agricultural products,
evaluation of crop-livestock combination, farm site and returns to scale, importance and significance of family farms, principl es
of comparative advantage, importance of records in determining the strong and weak points in the farm mechanization and
incorporation of this information in optimization models.
02. Agricultural marketing :
Marketing : General principles of marketing, relative importance of production and marketing, institutions dealing with marketing
in Sri lanka, role of such institutions in influencing the growth of markets, problems facing the marketing of agricultural products
in Sri Lanka and principles involved in improving marketing  efficiency.
03. Land Economics :
Economics concepts as applied to land use, demand for land and supply in Sri Lanka, land use planning in Sri Lanka, importance
of colonization and settlement programmers in Sri Lanka.
09–185
–––––––––––––––––––
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS  IN  SRI  LANKA  ANIMAL  PRODUCTION  AND
HEALTH  SERVICE – 2010(2011)
IT is hereby notified that the Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in the above mentioned Service will be held in Perad eniya in
December, 2011. Applications are called from the officers who were in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service as at
01.06.2011.
02. The time table will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations 01 and 02 at the same time.
03. The syllabus and rules and regulations relevant to Efficiency Bar Examination 01 and 02 are stated in the service minute.
Accordingly given Syllabus for the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination of Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service is in Appen dix
“A” and syllabus for the 2nd Efficiency Bar Examinations is in Appendix “B”.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
1393
Officers can sit for all subjects in one attempt or several attempts.
04. The prescirbed subjects for the Efficiency Bar Examination are given below :
Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service
1st Efficiency Bar 2nd Efficiency Bar
Subject Subject Duration Subject Subject Duration
No. (hours) No. (hours)
01 Financial Systems 3 01 Part I 3
02 Administration 3 02 Part II 3
03 Dept. Regulations Paper I 2 03 Part 03 - Paper I 3
04 Dept. Regulations Paper II 3 04 Part 03 - Paper II 3
05 Special Paper* 3 05 Part 03 - Paper III 3
06 Part 03 - Paper IV 3
07 Part 03 - Paper V 3
08 Part 03 - Paper VI 3
09 Part 03 - Paper VII 3
10 Part 03 - Paper VIII 3
11 Part 03 - Paper IX 3
12 Part 03 - Paper X 3
13 Part 03 - Paper XI 3
*Only for the Veterinary Research Officers.
Note.–  The candidates who sit for 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination should select either Part 01 ; or
02 of the question papers and two question papers from XI question papers given in
03. The candidate should obtain at least 40 marks for each paper to pass the examination.
05. The attention of the candidates who sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations is drawn to Paragraph 5 of the Treasury Circular
No. 701 dated 04th September, 1966 which is reproduced below :–
“The medium departmental examinations (including Promotional and Efficiency Bar Examinations) should be the language
in which the officer sat for the Competitive Examination to enter the Public Services or the Official Language. But the
officers who entered the service without a competitive examination should select either the Language in which the officer
qualified for entry to the Public Service or the Official Language”.
06. Arrangements will be made by the Commissioner General of Examiantions enabling the candidates to answer the following
papers in Sinhala, Tamil, English. Permission will not be given to change the medium applied by the candidate later :–
(1) Financial systems ;
(2) Administration ;
(3) Departmental Regulations Paper I ;
(4) Departmental Regulations Paper II.
07. If found later that the candidate has sat for the examination in a medium in which he is not entitled his candidature will be
cancelled.
08. The application should be in the form of the specimen appended to the notification and should be prepared on A4 size paper
using both sides of it. If the candidate wishes to sit for Efficiency Bar Examination I and II the application should be submitted
separately for them . It should be noted that the Cages 01 to 08 should appear on page I of the paper and the balance on the other side
of the paper. The application should be filled by the candidate. The applications which are not prepared as per the specimen form and the
incomplete applications forms will be rejected without informing the candidate. The candidate is advised to keep a Photostat Copy of the
application for his use. Further the candidate should check the applications prepared by himself with the specimen application appeared
in the notice. The name of the examination should be written in English too in the applications prepared in Sinhala and Tamil m edium.
09. The examinations will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations and candidates are bound to abide by the
rules and regulations enacted by him. The relevant rules and regulations are appeared at the end of this notice. If a candidate violates any
of the rules is liable to punishment at the discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
1394
10. Applications should be forwarded through the Head of Department/Institute by registered Post to reach the Director
General, to the address given below on or before 30.09.2011. The applications received after the closing date will be rejected :–
Director General of Animal Production and Health,
Department of Animal Production and Health,
Gatambe,
Peradeniya.
11. A paper notice will be published by the Department of Examinations as soon as the Admission Cards are issued to the
candidates. If the Admission Card is not received 2-3 days after the publication of the notice it should be informed to the Dep artment of
Animal Production and Health as stated in the notice. It is useful to keep certified photostat copies of the application and re ceipt for the
payment and receipt for the registration with your request and those who reside outside Colombo should contact giving the Fax N umber
and contact the Department of Animal Production and Health.
12. The claims submitted later by the candidates who have fail to fulfill the requirements as stated in the above Paragraph 11 will
not be considered.
13. The attention of all the candidates is invited to Circular No. 274 dated 29.06.1971 issued by the Commissioner General of
Examinations regarding the use of identity cards. It is the responsibility of candidates to prove their identity at the examination hall. Only
the National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons or the valid passport will be accepted for the examinations
conducted by the Department of Examinations in order to prove the identity of the candidate at the examination hall.
14. Fees will be levied from the candidates who sit for the examination, on the following basis :–
(a) No fees will be levied from candidates who sit for this examination for the first time,
(b) For each subsequent sitting :
For whole examination Rs. 400 0
Single subject Rs. 200 0
Candidates who have already sat for this examination are required to pay the relevant fees as indicated above. The above
examination fees should be paid to any Post Office/District or Divisional Secretariat situated in the Island to be creidted to Revenue Head
No. 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations and the receipt of it should be affixed to the edge of the relevant cage in the
application. Further it may be useful to keep a photostat copy of it.
15. Issuing of an Admission Card to a candidate will not be considered that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to sit for the
examination.
A. H. G
AMAGE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community Development.
Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community Development,
No. 45, St. Michel Road,
Colombo 03,
12th August, 2011.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
D
EPARTMENT OF EXAMINATIONS – SRI LANKA
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINA TION FOR OFFICERS OF THE SRI LANKA ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH SERVICE - 2010(2011)
(The name of the examination should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope.)
(Two applications should be sent for Efficiency Bar Examinations I and II, if the candidate wishes to sit for them at the same time).
Medium in which the applicant whishes to sit for the Examination  : Si nhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Give the relevant number in the box)
Examination applied by the candidate :
1st Efficiency Bar Examination - 1
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination - 2 (Give the relevant number in the box)
01. ( a) Last name with initials  :––––––––––.
(b) Names denoted by initials  :––––––––––.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
1395
02. Date of Birth :  Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
03. Designation :––––––––––.
Name of Department :––––––––––.
04. Postal address (for dispatch of admission card) :––––––––––.
05. The date on which the appointment was made to the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service :––––––––––.
06. Subjects selected with the number as indicated in the first paragraph of the notification (should be written clearly) :
(i) Subject No. : Subject :––––––––––.
(ii) Subject No. : Subject :––––––––––.
(iii) Subject No. : Subject :––––––––––.
(iv) Subject No. : Subject :––––––––––.
(v) Subject No. : Subject :––––––––––.
07. State whether you have sit for the whole/part of examination previously  :–––––––.
If so give the subjects, year and the month :–––––––––.
08. National Identity Card No. :
I declare that the above particulars are correct and that I am entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium indicated
above. Further I am prepared to abide the conditions enacted by the Commissioner General of Examinations with regard to the con duct
of the examination.
09. Examination fee Rs. :––––––––––.
To affix the receipt (keep a photostat copy of the receipt)
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Through Director General, Department of Animal Production and Health
Forwarded :-
I certify that the candidate whose particulars appear above is eligible to sit for the examination and that he/she has qualifications
to sit for the examination in the medium stated in the application.
*I also certify that the receipt paying the prescribed examination fee, has been duly affixed by the candidate.
I attest the candidate's signature.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department and Designation.
Date :––––––––––.
(*May be deleted fee not be pay)
ANNEXURE A
(a) The F irst Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service will comprise the following
subjects :
1. Financial systems
2. Administration
3. Departmental Regulation – I
4. Departmental Regulation - II
1. Financial systems :
The examination in Financial Systems will be based on the followings :
(a) The Financial Regulations of the Government of Sri Lanka Part I (Financial Regulations of Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka - except Chapter X) ;

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
1396
(b) Estimates of the current year. ( e. g.– Preparation of estimates, expenditure heads appropriation Act.) ;
(c) Kachcheri Accounts Ordinances as pertaining to Accounts maintained by Kachcheri.
Note.– A candidate should obtain 40% of the total marks for a pass.
2. Administration.– The examination in Administration will be based on the followings :
(a) Office and Field Organizational methods ;
(b) The Establishments Code (Chapter I, II, III, V , VI, VII, IX, XXIII, XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII,
XXXIII, XLVII AND XLVIII) ;
Note.– A candidate should obtain 40% of the total marks for a pass.
3. Departmental Regulations - 1
The examination in Departmental Regulations will be based on the followings :
A two hour paper on the following subjects :
The Ordinance for Contagious Animal Diseases, Animal Act, Departmental Orders and circulars relevant to Veterinary Surgeon's
Services
Note.– A candidate should obtain 40% of the total marks for a pass.
4. Departmental Regulations - II
A three hour paper on the following subjects :–
1. Dissemination of specimens, laboratory identification including post - mortem examination. Pregnancies diagnosis, vaccines for
contagious and infectious disease, sera logical test.
2. Techniques and practices of artificial inseminations, principles relevant to breeding and rearing of calves, hatching and rearing of
chicks by incubation, animal nutrition food rationing usage, pasture fodder cultivation, preparation of silages and Livestock
Management.
3. Milk production, bottling and transportation of pasteruized milk, bacteria and fat in milk, separation of cream and processin g
of butter, ghee and curd.
4. Analysis of meat, including slaughtering of animal in abattoirs, identification of meat.
Note.– A candidate should obtain 40% of the marks for a pass.
ANNEXURE B
(a) The 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service will comprise the following
subjects :–
Part I - Sections 2:1, 2:2, 4:1, 4:2, 5:2, 5:8, 6:5, 7:2:1, 8:2, 8:2:2, 8:2:3, 8:3:1, 9:2, 9:4, 9:6, 9:7 of the syllabus can be obtained
from the director General of Department of Animal Production and Health, Peradeniya and the entire Provincial
Directors' offices of Department of animal Production and Health.
Part II - Sections 1:1:1, 1:1:4, 1:2:1, 3:2, 3:1:1, 3:1:2, 3:2:1, 10:1:1, 10:1:2, 10:1:3, 10:1:4, 10:1:6, 10:2:1, 10:2:8, 10:4:1 of the
syllabus can be obtained from the Director General of Department of AP&H, Peradeniya and all Provincial Directors'
office of Department of Animal Production and Health.
Part III - Paper I - Epidemiology
Paper II - Livestock Economics
Paper III - Veterinary Public Health
Paper IV - Agriculture Extension
Paper V - Genetics and Breeding
Paper VI - Animal Physiology and reproduction
Paper VII - Housing for animals and Management
Paper VIII - Animal Nutrition
Paper IX - Pasture and Fodder
Paper X - Applied Vet. Microbiology and Immunology
Paper XI - Applied Medicine, Pathology and Parasitology
Details can be obtained from the Director General of Department of Animal Production and Health. Peradeniya and all
Provincial Directors' Office of Department of Animal Production and Health.
09–365
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.