

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 166]
————————
Presented by Hon. M. S. Thowfeek, M. P. on 22nd February, 2017
(Published in the Gazette on January 9, 2017)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 11.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
2-2d
2-
——————
INSTITUTE  OF  CHARTERED  CORPORATE
SECRETARIES  OF  SRI LANKA  (INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Institute of Chartered Corporate Secretaries of
Sri Lanka
2—PL 005055—225 (02/2017)

<!-- page 2 -->

1 Institute of Chartered Corporate Secretaries of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
Preamble.
5
10
15
20
2—PL 004928—300 (12/2016)
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED CORPORATE
SECRETARIES OF SRI LANKA
WHEREAS an Institute called and known as the “ Institute
of Chartered Corporate Secretaries of  Sri Lanka” has
heretofore been established in Sri Lanka as a company limited
by guarantee under the Companis Act, No.17 of 1982 for the
purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting all matters
connected with the said Institute according to the rules
hitherto in force:
AND WHEREAS the said Institute has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established, and has sought to
be incorporated by an Act of Parliament and it will be to the
public advantage to grant such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the 
Institute of Chartered
Corporate Secretaries of  Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act,
No.     of 2017.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Institute of Chartered Corporate Secretaries of  Sri Lanka”
(hereinafter referred to as the “ICCSSL”)  and as may be
admitted hereafter as members of the aforementioned
ICCSSL shall become and continue to be a body corporate
with perpetual succession under the name and style of the
"
Institute of Chartered Corporate Secretaries of  Sri Lanka ”
(hereinafter referred to as “the Institute”) and by that name
may sue and be sued with full power and authority to have
and use a common seal and alter the  such seal at its pleasure.
Incorporation
of the
Chartered
Corporate
Secretaries of
Sri Lanka .
Short title.
25

<!-- page 3 -->

 Institute of Chartered Corporate Secretaries of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
2
5
10
15
20
25
3. The general objects for which the Institute is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to promote and protect the effective and sustained
development of corporate secretaryship,
management, governance and related fields of
corporate affairs;
(b) to protect and promote the interests, status, rights
and privileges of the profession and its Members
and the interests of the public in relation to the
profession of corporate secretaries;
(c) to represent the profession of corporate secretaries
in Sri Lanka and elsewhere;
(d) to advise and communicate with public authorities
on matters relating to corporate secretaryship,
management and governance and other corporate
affairs;
(e) to facilitate an adequate supply of qualified
Chartered Corporate Secretaries who will be
qualified in corporate secretaryship, management
and governance;
(f) to establish and maintain the professional
qualification relating to corporate secretaryship,
management and governance by courses,
examinations and otherwise;
(g) to encourage the study of principles, law and
practice relating to and the research into corporate
secretaryship, management and governance;
(h) to prescribe the qualification for and
disqualification from membership of the Institute
and the standards of professional conduct for
members of the Institute and to secure adherence
thereto;
30
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3 Institute of Chartered Corporate Secretaries of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(i) to organise, supervise and control the admission to
membership of the Institute; to undertake and
regulate the professional education and training in
corporate secretaryship, management and
governance and related fields; to prescribe and
approve courses of study and qualifying
examination for membership of the Institute; to
conduct or provide for the conducting of such
courses and examinations and to collaborate with
recognized academic and professional institutions
for the furtherance of education and performance
development in the related fields;
(j) to set and update standards for the
education,training, development, professional
service and human and technical resources in
corporate secretaryship, management, corporate
governance and related fields;
(k) to resolve disputes relating to corporate
secretaryship, management and governance and
other related matters which may be referred to the
Institute;
(l) to pay due regard to the public interest as well as
the interest of bodies corporate and the interest of
the corporate secretarial profession.
4. For the purpose of achieving or in furtherance of the
general objects of the Institute, subject to the provisions of
this Act and any other written law, the Institute shall have
the power—
(a) to collaborate with, assist, receive assistance from,
and develop links with, other persons, agencies and
organizations in Sri Lanka or abroad, having objects
and function similar to those of the Institute;
(b) to levy fees subscription or contributions in respect
of membership, examination and programmes of
the Institute;
Powers of the
Corporation.
30
35

<!-- page 5 -->

 Institute of Chartered Corporate Secretaries of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
4
5
10
15
20
25
(c) to organise lectures, seminars, conferences and such
like and to publish material and otherwise
disseminate knowledge, skills and know-how on
corporate secretaryship, management and
governance and other related subjects;
(d) to create and offer awards, grant scholarships and
prizes for achievements in the field of corporate
secretaryship, management and governance;
(e) to establish entities for the purposes of the Institute;
(f) to formulate or conduct directly or with others
research and development in relation to matters in
furtherance of its objectives;
(g) to establish advisory committees as may be
necessary for purposes of the Institute to advise the
profession or other persons seeking advise or for
the purposes of advising the Institute on matters
pertaining to the achieving and furthering its
objectives or to the exercise, performance and
discharge of its powers and function;
(h) to appoint, employ, transfer and dismiss, officers
and servants and to prescribe their terms and
conditions of services;
(i) to borrow any money required for the purposes of
the Institute upon such terms as the Institute may
think fit, with or without security; and to  lend or
advance money to members or any entity of the
Institute subject to the rules of the Institute;
(j) to invest its funds, create and administer trusts and
to maintain current or other accounts in any bank
or financial institution;
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5 Institute of Chartered Corporate Secretaries of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
(k) to acquire, hold, take or give lease or hire, mortgage,
pledge, sell, exchange, or otherwise alienate,
encumber or dispose of any immovable and
movable  property for the pupose of the Institute;
(l) to accept any gift, endowment or bequest and to
carry out any trusts attached to any such gift,
endowment or bequest and to contribute to any
cause as the Institute may deem fit and to carry out
social responsibility activities; and
(m) to do all other such lawful things as are necessary
for, incidental or conducive to the carrying out or
attainment of the objects of the Institute or the
exercise or discharge of its powers.
5. (1) The management, control and administration of
the affairs of the Institute shall, subject to the provisions of
the Act and the rules to be made under the Act, be vested in a
governing board of management (hereinafter referred to as
“the Board of Management”).
(2) The Board of Management shall consist of office
bearers including the President and the Secretary and such
other members as may be elected or appointed in accordance
with the Rules of the Institute, to be made under the provisions
of the Section 10 of this Act.
(3) The first Board of Management of the Institute shall
consist of the members of the Board of Management of the
Institute holding office on the day preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
6. (1) The Board of Management shall maintain a
Register of Members and the name of every person duly
admitted a member of the Institute shall be inserted in the
relevant category of Membership in such Register.
5
10
15
20
25
Register of
Members.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 7 -->

 Institute of Chartered Corporate Secretaries of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
6
(2) Every person who on the day preceding the date of
commencement of this Act is a member of the ICCSSL will
be deemed a member of the relevant category of membership
of the Institute.
7. The Institute may have a Counicl which may make
recommendations to or advise the Board of Management, on
matters as may be referred to it by the Board of Management
from time to time or otherwise.
The Council shall consist of the following Members who
may be elected or appointed in accordance with the Rules of
the Institute to be made under the Act:—
(i) The Members of the Board; and
(ii) A representative from each of the following bodies
who shall be invited by the Board of Management
and be appointed to the Council by the Board of
Management annually for a period of one year—
(a) A representative at senior level from the
Ministry of Industry and Commerce;
(b) A representive at senior level from the
University Grants Commission;
(c) The Registrar-General of Companies or his
nominee; and
(d) A representative from one of the following,
each holding office in rotation for one (1)
year:
The Institute of Chartered Accountants
of Sri Lanka (ICASL) or the Institute of
Certified Management Accountants of Sri
Lanka (CMA).
5
10
15
20
25
The Council.

<!-- page 8 -->

7 Institute of Chartered Corporate Secretaries of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
8. (1) Every member of the Institute who possesses the
qualifications specified in the Rules to be made under this
Act, shall be entitled to take and use the title “Chartered
Corporate Secretary”.
(2) Every member who is registered as a Fellow Member
of the Institute shall be entitled to use the title‘Fellow
Chartered Corporate Secretary’ and the designatory letters
‘FCCS’.
(3) Every member who is registered as an Associate
Member of the Institute shall be entitled to use the title
‘Associate Chartered Corporate Secretary’ and the
designatory letters ‘ACCS’.
9. (1) No person not being a member of the Institute,
other than an Associate or Fellow Member of the Institute of
Chartered Secretaries & Administrators, UK, shall take or
use the title ‘Chartered Secretary’, ‘Chartered Corporate
Secretary’ or any other title that is permitted under this Act
or which could be misleadingly similar to such permitted
titles.
(2) No person who is not registered as a Fellow Member
of the Institute shall be entitled to use the title ‘Fellow
Chartered Corporate Secretary’ and the designatory letters
‘FCCS’.
(3) No person who is not registered as an Associate
Member of the Institute shall be entitled to use the title
‘Associate Chartered Corporate Secretary’and the designatory
letters ‘ACCS’.
(4) Notwithstanding anything in subsection (1) any firm
of company secretaries or corporate secretaries, each of the
partners of which is a member of the Institute may take and
use the title ‘Chartered Secretaries’.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Restrictions
as to use of
titles.
Use of titles
and
designatory
letters.

<!-- page 9 -->

 Institute of Chartered Corporate Secretaries of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
8
10. (1) It shall be lawful for the Institute, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less
than two-thirds (2/3) of the members present and voting, to
make Rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act,
and any other written law for all or any of the following
matters:—
(a) fees payable by each class of members and procedure
to be followed in the admission, withdrawal,
expulsion or resignation of members;
(b) constitution and election of the  Board of
Management and the Council, terms of office,
resignation or removal from office or vacation of
office of the office bearers, and powers, duties and
functions of the Board of Management and the
Council;
(c) powers, duties and function of the various officers,
agents and servants of the Institute and their
appointment, remuneration, disciplinary matters,
dismissal and termination of office;
(d) the procedure to be observed for the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Institute, the Board
of Management, the Council and any sub-
committees thereof, including the quorum therefore
and the conduct of business thereat;
(e) qualification and disqualification for membership
in the Institute, the Board of Management and the
Council;
(f) administration and management of the property of
the Institute; and
(g) generally for management of the affairs of the
Institute.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 10 -->

9 Institute of Chartered Corporate Secretaries of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
(2) The Rules of the Institute may be amended, altered,
added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like manner as
a rule made under this section.
(3) Every Member of the Institute shall, upon the coming
into operation of this Act, be subject to the rules to be made
from time to time by the Institute.
11. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue, of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being
of the Corporation and it shall have full power to sell
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
12. (1) The Institute shall have its own fund and all
money received hitherto or hereafter by way of gift, bequest,
donation, subscription, contribution, or otherwise by and
on account of the Institute shall be deposited to the credit of
the Institute in one or more banks and financial institutions
as the Board of Management shall determine.
(2) The financial year of the Institute shall cover the
twelve calendar months period from one year to the other
without a break in the continuity from one year to the other.
13. (1) The Institute shall cause proper books of account
to be kept of the income and expenditure, asset and liabilities
and other transactions of the Institute.
(2) The accounts of the Institute shall be examined and
audited at least once in every financial year.
(3) The accounts of the Institute shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
Audit.

<!-- page 11 -->

 Institute of Chartered Corporate Secretaries of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
10
(4) In this section, ‘qualified auditor’ means an individual
or a firm of professionals who are recognized by law and
prectice for the time being to conduct of audits of accounts
of companies or other corporate.
(5) The Annual Report of the Board of Management shall
include the Statement of Accounts, the Balance Sheet and
Auditor’s Report for the financial year of the Institute.
14. All debts and liabilities of the ICCSSL existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid or discharged by the Institute and all debts due
to, and subscriptions and fees payable to the ICCSSL on
that day, shall be paid to the Institute for the purposes of this
Act.
15. The Board of Management may appoint Attorneys-
at-law, Bankers of the Institute, any agent or such other person
as may be required for the purposes of the Institute and may
rescind such appointments at any time.
16. The seal of the Institute shall be used only with the
authority  of the Board of Management. It may  be affixed to
any instrument  in the presence of the Secretary and any
member of the Board of Management  who shall place their
signatures on the  instrument and such signing shall be
independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
17. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
body corporate or of any other person or persons.
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
15
20
25
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others.
Attorneys-at-
law, bankers
and agents.
The seal of
the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Corporation.

<!-- page 12 -->

11 Institute of Chartered Corporate Secretaries of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .