

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2011
459
459
wxl 1"698 - 2011 ud¾;= ui 18 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'03'18
No. 1,698 – FRIDAY , MARCH 18, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 462
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 466
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 25th March, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 11th
March, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2011
460
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2011
461
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2011
462
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
KALUTARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. Could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 18th Apr il, 2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar-General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
23rd February, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division application are called applications should be sent
Kalutara Horana Post of Additional Registrar of District Secretary/Additional
Marriages (General) of Kulupana Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Area of Raigam Korale Division Kalutara.
03-465
––––––––––––––––
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  ECONOMIC  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Commissioner General of Samurdhi
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF DRIVER - CLASS III
UNDER COMBINED SERVICES IN THE DEPARTMENT OF
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF SAMURDHI – 2010
THIS refers to the advertisement published in the Gazette of
24.12.2010 in connection with filling 04 vacancies in the Post of
Driver - Class III of the Combined Services in the Department of
Commissioner General of Samurdhi.
The closing date of the applications hereby is extended up to
08th April, 2011 and accordingly all applications should be sent by
registered post to the Commissioner General of Samurdhi in his
Office located at No. 17, Barns Place, Colombo 07 on or before 08th
April, 2011. The term "Recruitment to the Post of Driver in
Combined Services – 2010" should be written on the top of the left
corner of the envelope carries application. The application received
after this closing date will not be accepted.
Commissioner General of Samurdhi,
Department of Commissioner General.
Barns Place,
Colombo 07,
At the Department of Commissioner General of Samurdhi.
03–431

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2011
463
MINISTRY  OF  INDIGENOUS  MEDICINE
Recruitment to the Sri Lanka Ayurveda Medical Service
APPLICATIONS are called for the Post of Primary Grade Medical
Officer of the Medical Officer category of the Department of Ayurveda
from Sri Lankan citizens who have fulfilled the following qualifications
as at 15.04.2011. Applications prepared on A-4 size paper as per
the specimen given below should be forwarded under registered cover
to reach the Commissioner of Ayurveda, Old Kottawa Road, Nawinna,
Maharagama on or before 15.04.2011. Please indicate "Posts of the
Sri Lanka Ayurveda Medical Service" on the top left hand corner of
the envelope.
01. Salary Scale :
(i) Monthly salary scale for graduates as per P. A. Circular :–
6/2006 Rs. 25,515-4 x 645 - 8 x650 - 16 x 1,050 -
Rs. 50,095 (SL2-2006).
Salary scale relevant to the Primary Grade :–
Rs. 26,160 - 2 x 645 - Rs. 27,450 (SL 2-2006).
02. Age limit.– Should be less than 40 years of age as at 15.04.2011.
03. Educational and Other Qualifications :
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ; and
(b) Should be a doctor registered in the Sri Lanka Ayurveda
Council after the completion of one year internship
subsequent to a degree obtained from a recognized
university after completing a five year study course on
Ayurveda, Siddha or Unani Medicine ; and
(c) Should be a person of excellent character with sound
physical and mental health.
04. Terms of Employment .– This post is permanent and
pensionable. Contributions have to be made Widows and Orphans/
Widowers and Orphans Pension Scheme. The appointment is subject
probationary period of three years.
05. Promotions.– After the recruitment to the posts of primary
grade, promotions are granted in terms of the terms and conditions of
the service minutes of the Sri Lanka Ayurveda Service.
Note :
1. After the recruitment of medical officers of the first batch
for the vacancies existing in the approved cadre on merit
basis on the order of marks obtained by each of them at the
final degree examination who have fulfilled all qualifications
specified in the recruitment procedure as at 15.04.2011
having passed the final degree examination (Ayurveda,
Siddha, Unani) and so far not received Ayurveda Physician
appointments in the Public Sector, the Ayurveda/Siddha/
Unani graduate doctors of other batches of successive years
will be recruited in the order of their passing of examinations
on the same merit basis mentioned above.
06. Applicants will be selected subject to an interview by a
constituted interview board to verify the qualifications.
07. Selected applicants should be prepared to work in any part of
the island.
08. Applicants should be ready to submit the following documents
as and when asked for by the interview board :
1. National Identity Card,
2. Certificate of Birth,
3. Degree Certificate,
4. Certificate of Registration at the Ayurveda Medical Council,
5. Grama Niladhari Certificate countersigned by the Divisional
Secretary.
09. The applications submitted by officials of the Public Sector
should only be submitted through the Head of Department.
Applications received after 15.04.2011 will be rejected. Applications
should only be addressed the official designation of the Commissioner
of Ayurveda and not to any other officer.
10. Your attention is also drawn to the general conditions
applicable to the appointments in the public sector laid down in
section (IIA) of Part I of the Gazette Notification of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
11. Applicants who have forwarded their applications as per the
Gazette Notification No. 1,631 dated 04.12.2009 of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka with regard to the recruitment of the
Sri Lanka Ayurveda Medical Service too should apply again.
12. The final decision regarding the activities pertaining to the
appointments in terms of this notice lies with the appointment
authority.
B. D. D
AHANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Indigenous Medicine.
Ministry of Indigenous Medicine,
4th and 5th Floor,
Premises of Ayurveda Hospital,
Colombo 08,
28th February, 2011.
For office use only
POST OF PRELIMINARY GRADE MEDICAL OFFICERS IN
THE CA TEGORY OF MEDICAL OFFICES IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF AUYRVEDA
01. (i) ( a) Last name with initials (In English block capitals) :–––––.
(b) Last name with initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
(ii) (a) Names denoted by initials (In English block letters) :––.
(b) Names denoted by initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2011
464
02. (i) Permanent Address (In English block letters)
(Letters will be posted to this address) :–––––––––.
(ii) Telephone No. :–––––––––.
03. (i) Date of birth :
Y ear Month Date
(ii) Age to 15.04.2011 :
Years Months Dates
04. Sex (Mark x in the relevant cage) :
Female Male
05. Whether married or single (Mark x in the relevant cage) :
Married Single
06. Whether Citizn of Sri Lanka :–––––––––.
07. Nationality :–––––––––.
08. Where the residential place belongs to :
(i) Provincial Council :–––––––––.
(ii) District :–––––––––.
(iii) Divisional Secretary's Division :–––––––––.
09. National Identity Card No. :
10. Education qualifications : Details of Degree
BAMS
BUMS
BSMS
(Mark x in the relevant cage)
1. University/Institute :–––––––––.
2. Effective date of degree :–––––––––.
3. Class :–––––––––.
4. Internship period :–––––––––.
11. Details of registration in the Medical Council :
1. Number :–––––––––.
2. Year :–––––––––.
I hereby confirm that the particulars furnished in these application
are true and correct. I am also aware that if it is revealed to the
appointing authority that any particulars contained here in untrue
and incorrect, I will be terminated from service without payment of
any compensation.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :–––––––––.
REPORT OF THE HEAD OF DEPARTMENT IF THE
APPLICANT IS IN THE PUBLIC SERVICE
I hereby certify that the afore mentioned particulars are correct
and that his/her work and conduct are ................. He/She could/could
not be released from the present post.
––––––––––––––,
Signature and the Designation of the
Head of Department.
Date :–––––––––.
03–472
––––––––––––––
JUDICIAL  SERVICE   COMMISSION
Applications are called for in Terms of Muslim Marriage
and Divorce Act,  (Chapter 115) for the Recruitment of
Quazis for the Areas indicated in the Schedule hereto
PERSONS with following Qualifications may apply :-
Any Muslim male who is a graduate of a recognized university
or a Moulavi holding a certificate from an institution recognized by
the Ministry in Charge of Muslim Religions and Cultural Affairs or
a holder of the Al - Alim Certificate issued by the Department of
Education or an Attorney-at-Law or a holder of other similar
professional qualifications or a retired public servant who has held
office in staff grade.
A person currently holding a permanent post in the public service
shall not be eligible to apply. Applicants should be married persons
over 40 years of age and of good character and standing in the
community and possessing a sound knowledge of the law relating
to Muslim Marriage and Divorce.
The selected candidate will be appointed for a period, which
will be specified in the letter of appointment.
It is a legal requirement that a Quazi should reside in the area for
which he is appointed.
A Quazi will be paid a monthly allowance of Rs. 6,000 and an all
inclusive allowance of Rs.5,000 per month for the cost of support
services, stationary and postal expenses.
Application forms can be obtained from the Judicial Service
Commission Secretariat and should be sent by registered post to
reach the Secretary, Judicial Service Commission on or before 15th

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2011
465
April, 2011. The envelope containing the application should be
marked "Post of Quazi"on its top left hand corner.
PRIYANTHA DE SILV A,
Secretary,
Judicial Service Commission.
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat,
P. O. Box 573,
Hulftsdorp Street,
Colombo 12,
03rd March, 2011.
SCHEDULE
01. Akurana : Applications are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter 115)
for the Post of Quazi in the D. S.'s Division
of Akurana in Kandy District.
02. Kandy : Applications are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter 115)
for the Post of Quazi in the Revenue
Division of Kadawath Sathara, Gagawata
and Pahatha - Hewaheta in Kandy District.
03. Kinniya : Applications are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter 115)
for the Post of Quazi in the A. G . A.'s
Division of Kinniya in Trincomalee District.
04. Koddiyarpattu : Applications are invited by the Judicial
(Muttur) Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter 115)
for the Post of Quazi in the Revenue
Division of Koddiyarpattu in Trincomalee
District.
05. Manmunaipattu : Applications are invited by the Judicial
(Kattankudy) Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter 115)
for the Post of Quazi in the Revenue
Division of Manmunaipattu North and
South, Eruvil and Porativu in Batticaloa
District.
06. Matale : Applications are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter 115)
for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Division
of Matale.
07. Ninthavurpattu : Applications are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter 115)
for the Post of Quazi in the A. G . A.'s
Division of Ninthavur in Ampara District.
08. Panadura : Applications are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter 115)
for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Division
of Panadura.
09. Yatinuwara : Applications are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter 115)
for the Post of Quazi in the Revenue
Division of Yatinuwara in Kandy District.
10. Akkaraipattu : Applications are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter 115)
for the Post of Quazi in the A. G . A.'s
Division of Akkaraipattu in Ampara District.
11. Avissawella : Applications are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter 115)
for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Division
of Avissawella.
12. Galle : Applications are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter 115)
for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Division
of Galle.
13. Kalutara : Applications are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter 115)
for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Division
of Kalutara.
14. Maho : Applications are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter 115)
for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Division
of Maho area which comprises of Maho,
Wariyapola, Nikavaratiya, Galgamuwa,
Abanpola, Jagama, Palunawala, Walpaluwa,
Kanuketiya, Abukkagama and for other
villages falling within the above areas.
15. Panamapattu : Applications are invited by the Judicial
(Pottuvil) S ervice Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter 115)
for the Post of Quazi in the Revenue
Division of Panamapattu (Pottuvil) in
Ampara District.
16. Kuliyapitiya : Applications are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter 115)
for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Division

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2011
466
of Kuliyapitiya area which comprises of
Kuliyapitiya, Divurumpola, Ariyama,
Kiniyama, Hettipola, Pannala,
Bandarakoswatta, Alabodagama, Bammana,
Narammala, Dambadeniya, Horambawa,
Athungahakotuwa, Kekunugolla,
Kobaigane, Arakyala and for other villages
falling within the above area.
17. Pahatha : Applications are invited by the Judicial
Hewahetta Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter 115)
for the Post of Quazi in the D. S.'s Division
of Akurana in Kandy District.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  LIVESTOCK  AND
RURAL  COMMUNITY  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Animal Productions and Health
RECRUITMENT TO GRADE IIB OF THE CLASS II OF THE
SRI LANKA LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT OFFICERS'
SERVICE – 2010
APPLICATIONS are invited by the Director General of the Animal
Production and Health for the Competitive Examination to recruit
for the Posts of Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Livestock
Development Officers Service in the Department of Animal
Production and Health.
02. Examination.– The examination will be held in May, 2011 in
Kandy by the Director General of Animal Production and Health.
The right to postpone or cancel the examination shall be with the
Director General.
03. Conditions of the Service.– The recruitment to Class IIB of
Sri Lanka Livestock Development Officers’ Service will be subject
to the general conditions governing the appointments in the Public
Service and the following conditions :–
(i) The selected officer is subject to serve in any part of the
Island ;
(ii) The officer appointed under open competitive examination
will be on probation for a period of 3 years. If an officer
who is confirmed in a post in the Public Service is
appointed, he will be on probation for a period of one
year. The officers who are appointed by the open
competitive examination are required to pass the
Efficiency Bar Examination I before they are confirmed in
the posts ;
(iii) An officer who entered the public service in the English
medium should gain proficiency in official language either
in Sinhala or Tamil during the period of probation. A
certified copy of the result sheet or the original issued by
the Department of Examination should be submitted to
prove that Sinhala/Tamil subject had been passed at the
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in order to exempt from the
official language proficiency test ;
(iv) The selected officer will be subject to the orders of the
Public Service Commission, rules and regulations of the
Establishments Code, Financial Regulations, terms and
conditions issued by the Government from time to time
and the orders of the Ministry and the Department.
04. Salary Scale.–
MT-2-2006A- Rs. 14,570 - 10 x 170 - 11 x 180 - 6 x 240 - 14 x
320 - Rs. 24,170.
(As per P. A. Circular No. 06/2006(iv) monthly).
The salary step of Rs. 14,570 - 10 x 170 - Rs. 16,270 is
applied to this post.
The Officers in Class IIB should pass the Efficiency Bar
Examination I before reaching the salary step IV of the Salary Scale.
05. Age Limit :
(i) Should be not less than 21 years and not more than 35
years at the closing date of the application. The appear
age limit will not apply for the officers who are already in
the government service ;
(ii) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(iii) Should be physically fit.
06. Educational Qualifications.– Should complete the following
qualifications before the closing date of the application :–
Applicant should have passed G . C. E. (Ad.Level) Examination
in three subjects and two subjects from Maths, Applied
Maths, Physics, Chemistry, Combine Maths, Biology and
Agriculture ; and
18. Memon : Applications are invited by the Judicial
Community Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter 115)
for the Post of Quazi in the Memon
Community.
19. Bhora : Applications are invited by the Judicial
Community Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter 115)
for the Post of Quazi in the Bhora
Community.
03–524

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2011
467
Two year Diploma obtained from the School of Animal
Husbandry in Welisara, Anuradapura or Kundasale.
Note.– Should have obtained qualifications on or before the
closing date of the applications. The applications which
are awaiting results will be rejected.
07. Method of Recruitment.– The candidates who have fulfilled
the basic qualifications should sit for a Common Competition
Examination which will be conducted by the Department of Animal
Productions and Health Service.
(i) Candidates who have obtained 50% or more marks for
each paper at the competitive examination will be called
for a viva voce on the basis of merit. No marks will be
given for the interview. Recruitment will be made on the
basis of the total marks obtained at the examination by
the candidates who have provided their eligibility.
08. Examination :
(i) The examination will be conducted in Sinhala/Tamil and
English Medium ;
(ii) Candidates may answer in any language ;
(iii) Permission will not be given to change the Language
Medium applied at the Examination ;
(iv) The examination fee will be Rs. 300. A money order drawn
in favour of the Director General, Animal Production and
Health encashable at the post office Peradeniya and
Money order should be affixed on the relevant cage in the
application ;
(v) The examination will be comprised with two subjects :–
(i) Intelligence ;
(ii) Question paper in Technology.
(vi) Syllabus :
 (a) Intelligence - Time 01 hour (100 marks) :
This question paper is designed to examine the applicant’s logical
reasoning, analytical thinking and the ability to take decisions.
(b) Question paper in Technology - Time 01 hour (100
marks) :
It is consisted with the following subjects :
(i) The resources available for agricultural and animal
husbandry activities of Sri Lanka. Potentials, present
situation and contribution towards the economy ;
(ii) Animal husbandry patterns of Sri Lanak quantity of
production and marketing systems, Livestock farming
patterns available in Sri Lanka, their location and the
dissemination ;
(iii) Popular methods used for breeding purpose with regard
to farm herd ;
(iv) Epidemics, disease control activities, collection of samples
from sick animals and transporting of them ;
(v) Combined farming systems and recycling methods ;
(vi) Industries associated with animal husbandry processing
of milk and meat and processing of animal feed ;
(vii) Income and the expenditure accounting systems pertaining
to animal production process reporting and auditing the
farms, planning of farms ;
(viii) Using of scientific information, dissemination system and
their productivity.
09. Method of Application :
(i) Application form should be prepared in accordance to
the specimen application attached herewith. Application
prepared on A-4 size paper (8 1/2" x 12" (A4)) using both
sides of it should be forwarded under registered cover to
reach the Director General, Department of Animal
Production and Health, P . O. Box 13, Gatabe, Peradeniya
on or before 08.04.2011.
The words "Competitive examination for recruitment
to the post of Livestock Development Officer" should be
written clearly on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
Applications received after the closing date will be
rejected.
Note :
(i) The applicants who are in the Public Service should
forward their applications through their Heads of the
Departments/Institutions.
(ii) Incomplete applications will be rejected. No allegation
with regard to the application lost or delayed in the post
will be accepted.
(iii) No acknowledged will be sent regarding the receipt of the
application. If the candidates have not received their
admission cards four days prior to the date of the
examination it should be informed to the Director General
of Animal Production and Health immediately with
following particulars :
(i) Full name of the applicant :––––––––.
(ii) Address :––––––––.
(iii) Date on which the application was posted,
registered No. and post office :––––––––.
Photostat copies of the following should be attached to the
application form of the candidate :
(i) Certificate of Birth ;
(ii) Certificates with regard to the educational qualifications ;
(iii)
Diploma Certificate in Animal Husbundry.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2011
468
10. Identity of the Candidate.– Every candidate should prove his
identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor.
The following documents are accepted for that purpose :
(i) National identity card issued by the Commissioner General
of Registration of persons ;
(ii) Valid Passport.
Submission of False Information.– If it reveals that a candidate
has not possessed the required qualifications to sit for the examination
his or her candidature can be cancelled before or during the examination
or after it or at any stage. If it reveals that a candidate has submitted
false information knowingly he/she will be subject for dismissed.
The candidates should draw their attention and adhere to the
general conditions of the service relevant for the appointment to the
Public Service Stated in paragraph 2:1 of Part I of this gazette
notification together with the rules and instructions for the candidates.
The Director General, Animal Productions and Health reserves
himself the right to take a decision with regard to a problem arisen or
the no of candidates to be recruited it will be the final decision. The
particulars of the service are published in the service minute of the
Sri Lanka Livestock Development officers in the extra ordinary
gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 140323
dated 14.09.2005.
Dr. A. D. N. C
HANDRASIRI,
Director General (C. A.),
Department of Animal Productions and Health.
Department of Animal Productions and Health,
Peradeniya,
25th of October, 2010.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
M
INISTRY OF LIVESTOCK AND RURAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF ANIMAL PRODUCTIONS AND HEALTH
APPLICATION FOR THE POSTS OF LIVESTOCK
DEVELOPMENT OFFICER OF CLASS IIB OF THE SRI LANKA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT OFFICER SERVICE
(For office use only)
The Medium applied for :
Make the relevant number in the cage
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
01. Name :
1.1 Name with initials in block capitals (Surname first) :––––.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––.
1.3 N.I.C. No. :
02. Address :
2.1 Private Address :–––––––––.
2.2 Official Address :–––––––––.
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent :–––.
03. 3.1 Sex : ( 3mark the relevant cage) :
Female
Male
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at the closing date of the application :
Years : Months : Days :
3.4 Civil Status : ( 3 Mark the relevant cage) :
Married
Single
04. Educational Qualifications :
4.1 G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––.
Subject Grade Index No.
4.2 ( a) The Institute from where the Diploma in Animal
Husbandry was obtained :–––––––––.
(b) The year on which the Diploma in Animal Husbandry
was obtained :–––––––––.
05. The present occupation and the previous post held (if available
only) :
Post Institute From To
06. The name of the post office to which the examination fee had
been paid :–––––––––.
Money order No. :–––––––––.
The examination fee Rs. 300. It should be written in favour of
Director General, Animal Productions and Health.
The receipt should be affixed here enabling to remove it.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2011
469
I certify that the particulars given in this application are true and
correct. I am also aware that if any particulars contained here in are
found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified before
selection or to be dismissed without any compensation if such
detection is made after selection.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
Relevant only for the officers in the Public Service at present.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
I certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs.Miss. ................. is serving
in this department as a .............. and the foregoing particulars were
checked by me and found to be correct, He/She could/could not be
released from the present post held by him/her if selected for the
above post.
–––––––––––––,
Head of the Department.
(Official seal should be placed).
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
03–590
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.