

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of June  01,  2012
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 05.06.2012)
VICTOR ANTONY EDUCATIONAL, SOCIAL,
ECONOMIC SERVICES AND CHARITY FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic Services
and Charity Foundation
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Janaka Bandara, M. P
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
(Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
Short title
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE THE VICTOR ANTONY EDUCATIONAL,
SOCIAL, ECONOMIC SERVICES AND CHARITY FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an Foundation called and known as the "Victor
Antony Educational, Social, Economic Services and Charity
Foundation" has heretofore been formed for the purpose of
effectually carrying out its objects and transacting all objects
and matters connected with the said Foundation, according
to the rules agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the said application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-
1. This Act may be cited as the Victor Antony
Educational, Social, Economic Services and Charity
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2012.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic Services and
Charity Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the "
Foundation") or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of the
"Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic Services and
Charity Foundation" (hereinafter referred to as the
"Corporation") and by that name may sue, and be sued, with
full power and authority to have and use a common seal and
to alter the same as its pleasure.
Incorporation
of the Victor
Antony
Educational,
Social,
Economic
Services and
Charity
Foundation.
Preamble.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be-
(a) to provide medical aid and food to the poor, the
destitute and the sick –
(b) to conduct special services for needy school children
and to offer assistance by way of scholarships,
library facilities and other necessary support for
students;
(c) to conduct classes for the students sitting for year
Five scholarship, GCE (O/L) and GCE (A/L)
examinations by experts in the particular field of
education;
(d) to support and encourage the services provided by
senior citizens movements;
(e) to develop religious places belonging to all the
religious ;
(f) to organize seminars, workshop, lectures,
exhibitions, and educational tours with a view to
promoting the educational activities of school
children;
(g) to establish and maintain pre-school for early
childhood development of the needy children;
(h) to give aid by way of scholarships to any officer or
servants engaged in the furtherance of the objects
of the Corporation;
(i) to promote understanding, co-operation and
friendship with similar institutions within and
outside Sri Lanka;
(j) to organize employees of small and medium scale
industries and enterprises and working towards their
future advancement;
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(k) to initiate and implemente economic, social,
cultural and environmental development activities
in Sri Lanka and providing guidance necessary for
it;
(l) to combat waste and corruption and utilize all
resources belonging to our community in a very
useful manner;
(m) to design and implement social mobilization
programmes for the development of children and
women and implementing education and training
programmes for this purpose;
(n) to initiate and implement technical, industrial and
computer vocational training institutions and
programmes so that young men and women from
families of low social status can gain self
employment opportunities;
(o) to identify children of school going age who do
not go to school for various reasons and directing
them towards admission to state schools or
supporting their education and social activities, and
providing social and economic support to families
identified as above;
(p) to provide training necessary for young men and
women engaged in agriculture and guiding them
towards export crops cultivation, organizing local
and foreign marketing activities necessary for it,
and providing space necessary for cultivation;
(q) to provide assistance in times of natural and
disasters, emergencies and accidents;
(r) to provide training in fields of engineering,
technology, carpentry, driving and computing to
young men and women who do not get access for
higher education and directing them towards such
vocations and starting training centres necessary
for it;
35

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(s) to initiate and maintain elders' homes for elders,
care centres for disabled persons and children's
homes for helpless children and orphans, and
providing the assistance to such institutions that
are currently functioning amidst difficulties; and
(t) to do all such other acts and things as are necessary
for and incidental or conducive to the attainment
of the above objects.
4. Subject to the provision of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as necessary
or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects
of the Corporation or any one of them, including the power–
(a) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,
in cash or kind ;
(b) to acquire, in any manner whatsoever and hold,
take or give on lease or hire, rent, sell or otherwise
dispose of, any movable or immovable property
and construct, maintain and alter any buildings or
works necessary or convenient for the business of
the Corporation ;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate and close bank accounts and
borrow or raise money with or without securitty ;
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for
the purposes of the Corporation in such manner as
the Board of Management may determine;
(e) to enter into agreement or contracts with any person,
or body of persons whether incorporated in Sri
Lanka or abroad or with any Government
General
powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
Department, Corporation, Board, Provincial
Council or Local Authority for the achievement of
the objects of the Corporation ;
(f) to detemine the fees to be paid in respect of
registration of different categories of membership ;
and
(g) appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities
as may be determined by the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation, be administered by a Board
of Directors consisting of the Director General, the Deputy
Chairman, the Secretary, Deputy Secretary and Treasurer
and not less than seven other members elected in accordance
with such rules.
(2) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Director of the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this
Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provision of this Act or any
other written law, for the admission, withdrawal or expulsion
of members, the election of the Board of Management, for
the conduct of the duties of the office bearers, agents, officers
and servants of the Corporation, for the procedure to be
followed in the transaction of business by the Corporation
and Board of Management and generally, for the
management of the affairs of the Corporation and the
accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made may
at a like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added to,
amended or rescinded.
Management
of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
35

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund. All
moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation, transfer,
subscription, contribution or fees shall be deposited to the
credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the Board
of Management shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporation,
all such sums of money as may be required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in carrying out the
objects of the Corporation.
(3) The moneys and property of the Corporation
whosoever derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of the objects as set forth herein and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or otherwise, to any member of the
Corporation.
8. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the Calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by
a qualified auditor as may be determined by the Board.
In this Section "qualified auditor" means–
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Fund of the
Corporation
30
Accounts and
Audit.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as Accountant issued by the Council of
such Institute.
9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Director General and the Secretary who shall sign their names
on the instrument in token of their presence and such signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a
Witness.
10. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.
11. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law,
to take and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation with full power to sell, mortgage
lease, exchange or otherwise dipose of the same.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other Foundation or
Foundations having objects similar to those  of the
Corporation, and which is or are by the rules thereof
prohibited from distributing any income or property among
its or their members. Such Foundation or Foundations shall
be determined by the Board at or immediately before the
dissolution of the Corporation.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other person, except such as are
mentioned in  in this Act and those claiming by, from or
under them.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil text of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
5
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .