

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'24
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2010
689
689
wxl 1"660 - 2010 cqks ui 24 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2010'06'24
No. 1,660 – THURSDAY , JUNE 24, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 02nd July, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 18th June,
2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... 690
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 690
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... —
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,659 of 18.06.2010 was not published.
The list of Jurors in Gall High Court - 2010, has been published in Part VI of this Gazette in Sinhala Language.
The Tamil version of this Gazette is printed separately.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'24
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2010
690
Appointments &c., by the Governors
APPOINTMENTS  MADE  BY  THE  GOVERNOR  OF  THE  WESTERN  PROVINCE  UNDER  THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF POWERS  VESTED  IN  THE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  UNDER  THE   13TH  AMENDMENT
TO  THE  CONSTITUTION
Serial Name/Position Date of Appointment/Ministry Effective from
No.
01 Hon. Dissanayaka Wimalaweera Minister of Education Appointed as the Acting Chief Minister of the Eastern Province
"Cultural Affairs" Lands and Land Development and with effect from 07.06.2010 until the Chief Minister
Transport, Eastern Province Hon. Sivanesathurai Chandrakanthan returns to the island
02 Hon. Dissanayaka Wimalaweera Minister of Education Appionted as the Acting Minister of Finance and Planning, Law
"Cultural Affairs" Lands and Land Development and order, Local Government, Regional Administration, Man
and Transport, Eastern Province power, Rehabilitation and Resettlement, Rural Development,
Tourism and Environment of the Eastern Province with effect
from  07.06.2010 until the subject Minister Hon. Sivanesathurai
Chandrakanthan returns to the  island.
Mohan Wijewickrama,
Governor,
Eastern Province.
Governor's Secretariat,
Orr's Hill,
Trincomalee.
06–531
Provincial Council Notifications
WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
AMENDMENT of the procedures, rules, regulations and orders published under the Road Passenger Carriage Services Statute No. 01 of
1992 which has been amended by the Statute No. 03 of 1993 and No. 07 of 1995 of the Western Province provincial Council.
Schedule 4 of the order of Road Passenger Carriage Service Statute No. 01 of 1995 of Western Province Provincial Council
published in the Gazette No. 937/05 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on Monday 19th August, 1996 is hereby amended.
Item 6 including the newly added items numbered 12, 13, 14 and 15 in the Schedule published in the Gazette No. 1,273 of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on Friday 24th January, 2003 is hereby re-amended.
(i) Passenger service permit per bus Rs. 5,000 0
(ii) Sub-route permit per route per bus Rs. 2,500 0
(iii) Duplicate of the passenger service permit (When the original is misplaced) Rs. 2,000 0
(iv) Amendments to the passenger service permit Rs. 250 0
(v) If the passenger service permit is not renewed on or before the date of expiry, the fine chargeable for
a month or a period more than that will be 10% of the permit charge 10%
(vi) Monthly service fee per bus (normal service) Rs. 1,000 0
(vii) 10% of the monthly service fee chargeable as a fine due to late payment of the monthly 10%
service fee (not amended)
(viii) Windscreen label consisting the details of the passenger service permit Rs. 200 0
(ix) Duplicate of the windscreen label Rs. 200 0
(x) Amendments to the windscreen label Rs. 200 0
(xi) First day of special hire permits Rs. 300 0
For each additional day Rs. 200 0

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'24
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2010
691
(xii) Monthly entry fee per bus (normal service) Rs. 1,000 0
(xiii) Monthly entry fee per luxury bus Rs. 1,000 0
(xiv) Passenger service permit for luxury bus per year Rs. 5,000 0
(xv) Monthly service fee for a luxury bus Rs. 1,000 0
These amendments will be implemented with effect from 01.07.2010.
H. M. UPALI KODIKARA,
Minister for Transport, Sports and Youth Affairs,
Culture and Arts Affairs, Co-operative Development,
Food Supply and Distribution and Rural Development.
In Colombo,
05th June, 2010.
06–489
–––––––––––––––––
DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – UV A  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Draft of the Proposed Road Statute of the Uva Province Provincial Council
I herewith publish the above proposed draft of statute which will be enforced in the Ua Provincial Council for public comments.
The statute will be submitted to the Uva Provincial Council for approval after 10 days of this has published. If any comments to
be forwarded related to the contents of this statute should be forwarded to the below address within 10 days after this notice.
R. M. KUMARASIRI RATHNAYAKE,
Minister,
Ministry of Road Development, Housing,
Water Supply, Consumer Affairs and Co-operative and
Food Supply and Distribution.
No. 301, R. H. Gunawardana Mawatha, Badulla,
03rd June, 2010.
DRAFT OF THE PROPOSED, ROAD STA TUTE OF THE UV A PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
A Statute to provide regulations to form a legal procedure requried to plan, construct, develop, maintain and
administrate the roads in the Uva Province to the level mentioned in Section 6 of list 1 of Schedule 9 of the 13th
Amendment to the Constitution of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and for matters consequent to it.
As the Uva Province is bound to uplift the social economical development of the people in the Province
through maintaining a satisfactory road system in the Uva Province by developing, maintaining and administrating the
existing roads in the Uva Province and planning, constructing, developing, maintaining and administrating, the roads that
will be constructed in the future in the Uva Province.
The Uva Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka enacts as follows :
1. This Statute is defined as the "Uva Provincial Road Statute" and will be implemented from a date approved
by the Governor of Uva Province.
P
ART I
GENERAL
2. (i) This statute should be applicable to all the roads published as mentioned in Section 3 below subjected
to the regulations provided hereinafter other than the roads maintained and administered by the
Government Road Development Authority.
Preamble.
Abbreviated
Designation and the
date of
implementation.
Application of the
statute.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'24
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2010
692
(ii) With the enforcement of this Statue, Road Ordinance No. 10 of 1861. Estate Road. Ordinance No. 12
of 1902, Estate Road (Deviation) Act, bearing No. 18 of 1956, Road Development Authority Act, No.
73 of 1981 will be inapplicable regarding all the roads this statute is applicable as mentioned in Section
(1) above.
(iii) Any action mentioned here performed before the enforcement of this statute should be considered as
an action perfromed according to this statute.
3. A certain road as mentioned in Sub-section 6 of Section 6 below can be declared as belonging to the Uva
Provincial Council by the Minister in charge of Uva Provincial Road subject (hereinafter mentioned as the Minister)
through orders published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
4. A department named Uva Provincial Road Development Department (hereinafter mentioned as the
"Department" should be established to perform the duties and assignments mentioned in this statute.
5. (i) A Provincial Road, Director (hereinafter mentioned as the Director) should be appointed as the Head
of the Department mentioned in Section 4 above. To assist him, Chief engineers, Divisional Engineers
or a qualified and appropriate group of other officers and servants at Provincial, District and Divisional
levels can be appointed.
(ii) Director appointed under sub-section (1) of section 5 above should be an officer in class 1 of Sri Lanka
Engineering Service.
(iii) The Provincial Road Director and the other officers and servants should function uner the general and
special orders of the Minister and the Secretary of the Ministry in charged of Uva Provincial Road
Development subject (hereinafter mentioned as the "Secretary") and under the supervision and
administration of the secretary.
P
ART II
POWERS AND DUTIES
6. (i) If after considering the necessities regarding the Divisional requirements and planning the Minister-in-
charge of Uva Provincial Road subject thinks that developing, formalising and managing the roads in
a particular area in the Province are proper, that area can be declared as a Road Development area
(hereinafter mentioned as "Development area") by in order pubilshed in the gazette.
(ii) In a particular order done under sub-section of section 6 above declaring a development area that area
should be shown demarcated by marking the limits and boundaries of that area.
(iii) After the declaration of a development area a Government authorized institute or any other person
should not implement or allow to implement any kind of road development activity other than on the
National Highways or bridges and culverts built on National Highways without the prior written
approval of the Secretary.
(iv) The Minister may issue General or Special directives occasionally to the Secretary regarding the
performance of duties and activities required to achieve the purposes in this statute and the Secretary
should make them effective.
(v) It is the responsibility of the Miniser to verify matters such as the implementation of regulations in
the statute and whether those affairs are implemented properly.
(vi) In addition to the above powers the Minister should have the following powers. By the orders
published in the gazette after providing the recommendation of the Director :
(a) Declaring a particular proposed road, estate road, channel or a river as a Provincial thoroughfare.
(b) Enacting suitable orders and regulations to formalise the management regarding the use of a
particular Provincial thoroughfare.
Declaration as a
Provincial road.
Establishment of
Uva Provincial
Road Development
Department.
Provincial Road
Director
Powers and duties
with the Minister-
in-charge.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'24
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2010
693
(c) Ordering to stop, divert or direct to a different direction a particular existing road or a channel.
(d) Enacting suitable regulatios to prevent and control the construction of buildings within the
building constructing limits.
(e) Enacting orders for the affairs implementing the powers mentioned in this statute.
(f) Declaring a certain definite area as a Divisional Engineering Sector for the performance of duties
and assignments in this statute.
7. (i) The powers, duties and assignments with the Secretary, within a certain development area in the
Province, subjected to the regulation in section 6 are as follows :
(a) Subjected to the directives that can be given occasionally to the Secretary by the Minister,
Planning combined roads, Planning Road Development Programmes, preparing capital investment
plans, Planning Road Development projects in that area.
(b) Subjected to the directives that can be given occasionally to the Secretary by the Minsiter,
approval of the Combined Road Plans, Road Development Programmes, Road Development
Projects and Capital Investment Plans prepared for those areas.
(c) Subjected to the directives that can be given occasionally to the Secretary by the Minister,
implement or suspend the implementation or cancel the implementation of Combined Road
Plans, Road Development Programmes, Road Development Projects and Capital Investment
Plans prepared for that area.
(d) Enter, perform and implement as a joint enterprise all the bonds or agreements that may be
required for the job of doing a certain Road Development Project with a person, company,
Co-operation in Sri Lanka.
(e) Appear on behalf of person a compnay or co-operation that has neglected the completion of a
certain approved road developing project or a scheme and take over the completion of that project
or the scheme.
(f) Disposal of certain movable or fixed assets acquired for duties mentioned in this statute or
movable or fixed assets possessed.
(g) Preparation of Road Development Projects and Planning Schemes for a Governemnt authorised
institute on the request of that Institute and Co-ordinating those project or scheme or assisting in
implementing them.
(h) Providing Road Planning or building services for the benefit of Government authorized institutes
or other persons.
(i) Fixing charges for any of the services provided.
(j) Accepting in cash or in any other form of gifts grants, donations or relief aids and use them for the
implementation of activities in this statute ; and
(k) To implement the powers with the Secretary fulfill the duties and all the assignments connected
with performances or consequential therewith.
(ii) In implementing the powers, performing the duties and performing the assignments by he Secretary
under Sub section 1 of Section 7 here. when preparing or implementing a programme or some
development affairs relevant to planning roads or development of roads within a certain development
area. If a certain Local Government institutional area is in that development area or spread on that area,
the Secretary should invite the Mayor or Chairman and an officer in that Local Government institute
as the case may be, to come and attend the meeting or meetings relevant to the said programme of the
development affairs. The Mayor or the Chairman or the officer receiving such an invitation should
atend the said meeting or meetings.
(iii) Any of the said powers, duties and assignments under this Section can be vested in writing to the
Mayor or the Chairman or any other officer in the Local Government institute by the Secretary.
Powers, duties
assignments with
the secretary.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'24
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2010
694
8. (1) The powers vested with the Minister regarding the administration of regulation mentioned in this
staute and as vested to the amount decided by the Secretary should be implemented by the Director
of the Road Development Department.
(2) Divisional Engineering Division should be decided so as to cover the Uva Province hereinafter mentioned
as the province, to administrate this statute and Chief Engineers and Divisional engineers should be
appointed to cover the said Divisions.
(3) Chief Engineers and Divisional Engineers in charge of Divisions should be responsible for the
administration of this statute in the Province subjected to the command and control of the Road
Director.
P
ART III
IMPLEMENTATION OF POWERS AND WORK MANAGEMENT
9. Entering into a land adjoining or near a certain existing or intended road by the Divisional Engineer,
Technical Officers in charge of certain duties this statute in relevant, labourers and workmen assigned in services by
them in instances required with the tools, equipment, vehicles and machinery is legal.
10.(1) When Divisional Engineer, technical officers and labourers and workmen assigned in work by them
with all the proper tools, equipment, vehicles and machinery required in justifiable instances are
marking, measuring, building, working opening, altering, diverting, repairing, clearing, improving,
covering a certain existing or intended road or otherwise for assiting in whatever the way in marking,
measuring, building, working, opening, altering, diverting, repairing, clearing, improving or covering, or
otherwise searching, digging, cutting, excavating or transporting water, timber brushwood metal,
gravel clay or any other material required for building, excavating, repairing, digging or renovating a
bridge, culvert, tank, drain, dam or ditch connected in whatever the way to it or otherwise building or
repairing line houses or buildings on or close to such a highway for the use of an officer mentioned
above or labourers, persons, animals vehicles, equipment, vehicles and machinery employed under
him and without considering as a person entering illegally, it is legal to transport those labourers,
persons, animals, vehicles, equipment and machinery from a land situated adjoining or near such a
thoroughfare across a land belonging to a certain person company or a co-operation.
However, unless sufficient materials can not be obtained from bare lands situated close by or public
or abandoned lands, digging, cutting, transporting a garden, an access road to a house, a garden a paddy
field or a jungle should not be done without the consent of the owner for any of the such materials. If
sufficient materials can be obtained as stated above those materials can be obtained.
(2) For all the materials obtained that way and for the damages done in obtaining or transporting those
materials a reasonable amount of compensation should be paid to its owner.
Any pit or quarry from which any such material has been obtained should be railed or fenced by the
officer so that they shall not be dangerous to any person or animal.
11.(1) when the Divisional Engineer, Technical Officers and labourers and workmen assigned in work by
them are marking measuring, building, working, opening, changing, diverting, repairing, clearing or
renovating or making, digging, repairing, clearing or renovating a certain bridge, culvert, fence, drain,
dam or ditch situated on it or connected in whatever the way to it is legal to construct temporary
buildings in lands adjoining to it or close to it for the use of those officers, labourers, workmen,
animals, vehicles, tools and equipment employed by them and to keep all the animals employed by
them property tied and clustered in lands adjoining or close during the period they are working on a
certain existing or intended road.
However, in a land subjected to cultivation or in an instance where bare lands or public or abandoned
lands are available close by for the said purpose such construction of any buildings or keeping of any
animals clustered should not be done.
(2) Further, for any damages done to the land a reasonable compensation should be paid to the owner in
all the instances.
Authorized Officers.
Authority to enter
into a land.
Transporting
materials from a land.
Construction of
temporary building.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'24
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2010
695
12. It is legal to build a temporary by-road across certain suitable lands situated adjoining by or close by for
the use during the period of implementing any work in the building of the road by the Divisional Engineer Technical
Officers and labourers assigned in the work by them. Even then such a by-road should not be built over a land on which
a building is standing or a covered compound or a home garden.
13. In an instance where it is considered necessary, construction or building of fences, hedges, ditches, drain
banks and quarries can be done by the side of certain roads by the Divisional Engineer, Technical Officers and labourers
assigned to work by them. Land owners or residents in the lands adjoining those fences, hedges, ditches, drains or banks
should maintain them in order satisfactorily and reasonably repaired. They are ordered hereby to maintain them that
way.
14. Divisional Engineer, Technical Officers and labourers assigned to work by them have the authority to
build, clean and keep open all the ditches, drains or water ways and also to build and lay any tunnels or bridges
considered as necessary for the safety of any road or channel in a land or across a land situated adjoining or close to a land
or a channel or to repair, build and maintain a road or a channel.
15. It is legal to cut and remove all the trees, bushes and shrubs and leaves or branches or roots of trees growing
in a road or overhanging or making any obstruction or danger in it and dumping to a land adjoining or close and entering
to a land or premises together with persons, animals and tools that may be required for that purpose and to perform all
the things required for cutting, prunning or removal of those trees, bushes, shrubs, leaves, branches, roots inside that by
the Divisional Engineer, Technical Officers and labourers assigned to work by them.
16. A certain period of time can be allowed to lapse by the Divisional Engineer, Technical Officers and the
labourers assigned to work by them and the contractors included in the agreements for keeping the metal, gravel and
other building, materials, vehicles or machinery grouped, kept and heaped on a road as required to facilitate the repairing
works or to prevent damages happening to a road recently repaired and during the period the road is being repaired and
before the commencement of repair works and after completion of the repair works. Suitable precautions should be
taken by the officers to prevent danger or damage happening to pedestrians walking and vehicles running on that road.
17. It is legal to keep earth or other materials that may be required to use during the period any of the road
building work is done in an adjoining or near by land by the Divisional Engineer, Technical Officers and labourers
assigned to work by them.
18. During the marking, measuring, building, working, opening, altering, diverting, repairing, clearing, renovating
an existing or intended road or during the building, excavating, renovating clearing or repairing a bridge, tank, drain, dam,
ditch placed on it or connected in whatever the way with it, dumping all the earth and other rubbish that should be
removed from such a site in a land situated adjoining or close to it is legal.
Even then, if earth and other rubbish removed are collected in an adjoining or nearby land under this statute,
the responsibility to remove from that place within a reasonable period and to arrange that place enabling to manage as
usual lies with the employees of the relevant service.
19. The Divisional Engineer or a person authorized by him has the authority to store explosive materials and
to transport from suppliers to sites subjected to the rules and regulations enacted under a separate Act by the
Government or that will be enacted occasionally. They should possess a permit obtained from the relevant authorities
to store and transport explosive materials and they should possess security rooms or vaults to store those explosive
materials.
20.(1) Every person liable to suffer a damage or loss due to the implementation of any of the powers and
authorities vested by this statute to officers in charge of duties to which this statute is applicable
should be entitled to receive compensations. However, if that loss is said to have happened regarding
a certain action, a reason or a thing, a request for that must be forwarded to the Divisional Engineer in
any of the instance before a lapse of three months from the happening of that action, reason or thing
and if the forwarding of that request is neglected during the above said period that request to obtain
compensation for the alleged damage should not be allowed. Thereafter the applicant loses the right to
claim compensations.
(2) When a request has been forwarded within the specified period mentioned above and if an agreement
can not be reached regarding the amount of compensation, that compensation amount can be decided
Temporary by-roads
Excavations done
bordering to the
road
Building and
maintenance of
ditches and drains
Cutting and removal
of trees
Allowing road
building materials to
remain
Allowing building
materials to remain
in lands
Dumping rubbish in
a land
Storing and using
explosive materials
Compensation for
damages

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'24
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2010
696
by one mediator named by the Director and another mediator named by the person claiming the
compensation. If both the mediators can not reach an agreement an arbitrator should be appointed by
the Secretary and according to the conditions agreed by the parties the decision given by the mediators
or the arbitrator will be final.
P
ART IV
LIMITATIONS AND CONTROL OF OBSTRUCTIONS IN ROAD JOB ACTIVITY
21. Any person obstructing, hindering, threatening or assaulting an officer or a labourer involved in duties
under the command and authority of the Divisional Engineer, should be an offender for an offence under this statute, and
when convicted by a Magistrate in that regard, according to the seriousness of the crime and nature of the offence should
be subjected to a fine not less than Rupees Five Hundred and not more than Rupees Ten Thousand or an imprisonment
not less than six months and not more than one year or a punishment of both the said ways.
22.(1) When building, maintaining and developing a Provincial thoroughfare belonging to the Provincial
Council by a Corperation, a company, an Estate, authority, a Divisional Committee by using the
allocations set apart by the Government to that Corperation, Company, Estate, Authority, Divisional
Committee, laying down of minimum standards that should be followed by these institutes and
persons in performing those activities under the supervision of the Road Director is legal.
(2) Entering into a land closeby or a site by the Road Director or Chief Engineer or Divisional Engineer or
an officer authorized by the Road Director for the purpose of measuring, marking or investigating of
that road with labourers, tools and equipment is legal.
23. By an announcement published in the gazette by the Road Director, it is legal to order limits regarding the
following matters in respect of usages of a road, land or a building adjoining by the Divisional Engineer :–
(1) Constructing, setting or preparing an access road from a Provincial road ;
(2) Blocking out a land causing the increase of the number of access roads ;
(3) Construction of a building, using a building as a shop or a commercial centre, putting up or constructing
sign boards within a specified distance from the centre of a road ;
(4) Walking or taking cattle across a specific section of a road ;
(5) Use of a specific transport procedure along the road ;
(6) Driving certain machinery on a road ;
(7) Usages of roads when driving of vehiccles is limited along a road or a direction.
A person breaking the limits ordered regarding the above matters should be an offender for an offence
and when convicted by a Magistrate for that offence should be subjected to a fine not exceeding
Rupees Five Thousand.
24.(1) Without a written permission from the Divisional Engineer, no one should have permission under this
statute to build or make an access road of any nature to a road or from a road. If a person needs the
facility of an access road from a road permission from the above officer should be obtained by him.
After investigating the relevant place suitable instructions should be given by the Divisional Engineer
to the relevant party.
(2) That access road permitted can be a cylindrical concrete culvert, a bridge, a platform or an arch. The
cross-sectional width of the culvert made and the width of the access road should be ordered by the
Divisional Engineer.
(3) The person who obtained permission should be responsible to see that no obstruction has been done
to the side drain on the road and flow of water is not hindered in whatever the way. As a result of
building the access road mixing or collecting of oil or rain water to high-tide should not be allowed and
mixing or collection of any stones, gravel, earth or other rubbish inside the access road should not be
allowed.
(4) It is legal to charge an amount of money by the Divisional Engineer for damages done to a road when
building an access road. The relevant party should bear the entire expenditure in building an access
road.
Obstruction to
activities
Laying down
standards regarding
works of other
institutes and
supervision
Limits in the use of
roads
Allowing access
roads

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'24
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2010
697
(5) Any person or institute breaking any of these orders will be an offender for an offence under this
statute and after conviction by a Magistrate should be subjected to a fine not exceeding Rupees Five
Thousand.
25.(1) For the purpose of establishing a system to provide services to the people (subjected to the regulation
in certain rules relevant to Utility Services) under or on or nearby a road (hereafter defined as the
Utility Services Suppliers) the District Divisional Engineer has a possibility to enter into agreements
with a person, Corperation, a company, a Divisional Authority or a department.
(2) When it is applied to establish such a Public Service under, on or near a road full details regarding depth
and width the road is dug, place of construction, date expected to commence the construction affairs,
period of construction and machinery that will be used should be submitted by the Utility Service
Suppliers.
(3) When that proposal as described is received the Divisional Engineer should estimate the expenditure
that will be incurred to rebuild the road or to repair the damages done to the road when performing that
construction affairs by the Utility Service Suppliers. Before commencing the work that amount
estimated should be paid by the Utility Services Suppliers and then the Divisional Engineer should
enter into an agreement and grant the written permission to continue that construction works.
(4) In an instance where obstructions and hindrances to the road are done by the Utility Service Suppliers
and in an instance when the Utility Service Suppliers are notified by the Divisional Engineer to remove
those obstructions in a way to satisfy the Divisional Engineer and if that order is neglected by the
Utility Service Suppliers or another Utility Service Suppliers could not be found for that the Divisional
Engineer will perform those works and recovering the expenditure incurred for those works from the
first Utility Service Supplier is legal.
(5) The limits regarding depth, width, place and the premises mentioned as in the proposal should be
followed by Utility Service Suppliers. If it is considered that an alteration is required in it the
Divisional Engineer should be immediately informed about that by the Utility Service Suppliers. After
taking a suitable decision, if an additional payment has to be made, it should be notified in writing.
(6) Without obtaining the written permission of the Divisional Engineer alterations regarding depth,
width, place or premises should not be done by the Utility Service Suppliers.
(7) In doing any work on the road by Utility Service Suppliers for any damages happened to that Public
Utility Services System the Divisional Engineer or his officers or labourers will not be responsible.
26.(1) Building construction limits and weight limits regarding roads belonging to the Provincial Council are
as follows :–
(i) While the limit of constructing buildings will be 07 metres (seven) each towards both sides from
the road centre line in respect of a road declared by the Minister as a "C" class road by an order
published in the gazette, the weight of the vehicle not to exceed 12 metric tons including the total
weight of materials or people, animals and materials loaded and the weight of the vehicle applicable
differently from road to road decided by the Director should be published by him in the gazette ;
(ii) While the limit of constructing buildings will be 07 metres each towards both sides from the road
centre line in respect of a road declared by the Minister as a "D" class road by an order published
in the gazette, the weight of the vehicle with the full weight loaded not to exceed 10 tons
applicable differently from road to road decided by the Director should be published by him in
the gazette ;
(iii) While the limit of constructing buildings will be 05 metres each towards both sides from the road
centre line in respect of a road declared by the Minister as an "E" class road by an order published
in the gazette, the weight of the vehicle with the full weight loaded not to exceed 8 metric tons
applicable differently from road to road decided by the Director should be published by him in
the gazette.
Permission for
Utility Services
Building
construction limits
and weight limits

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'24
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2010
698
(2) It is not legal to construct a building, boundary wall or a gateway within the specified limit of
constructing buildings. Other than the works such as changing the damaged and decayed sheltering
sheets, repairing broken walls and applying paints doing any alteration in respect of existing structures
is also not legal.
(3) The Director can give permission to a certain party for a temporary or permanent building, wall, gate,
fence, notice board or any other kind of construction within the building limit on a no-compensation
agreement. The said party should take action to demolish and remove any construction built on such
a no-compensation agreement when informed in writing by the Director or an officer authorized by
him and any compensation should not be paid for damages occurring in such an instance.
(4) The Minister has the authority to increase or decrease these limits by an order published in the
Gazette after obtaining the recommendation of the Director. These limits can be ordered as applicable
to a certain road or a certain section of it.
(5) The land area situated on both sides of this limit should be defined as the “Building Constructing
Limits”.
(6) Regarding the roads that can be taken under this statute weight limits and volume, in respect of
vehicles, that is the length, width and height of the vehicle, should be declared by the Minister by
orders published in the Gazette occasionally.
(7) It is in order to allow to exhibit properly by the Divisional Engineer the weight limits and volume, that
is the length, width and the height of the vehicle, ordered by the Minister under Sub-section (5) above
from place to place on the relevant road to be seen easily.
(8) ( a) It is an offence to dig mine wells for mining or for the purpose of mining within that building
constructing limits of a specified road.
(b) When convicted by a Magistrates in respect of that offence and according to the seriousness of
the crime and the nature of the offence should be subjected to a fine from Rupees Five Thousand
to Twenty-five Thousand or an imprisonment not less than 06 months and not more than a year
or both of the two penalties. The Director has the authority to recover according to the amount
calculated by the Divisional Engineer on the damage happened to the relevant road through
digging from a person so convicted.
(9) By allowing to remove illegal constructions in this building construction limits by the Divisional
Engineer recovering the expenditure in respect of that activity from the relevant persons is legal.
However, other than for repairs done to a building boundary wall or a gateway before the enforcement
of this statute for which a permit was necessary for repairs or for repair activities being performed for
a building, boundary wall, gateway or any other structure, or a well, pond or a mine well existed on the
day this statute is enforced none of the above regulations in this statute should be applicable. Similarly
none of the above regulations in this Sub-section should be applicable to structures such as bus halts,
billboards, notice boards.
27.(1) In an instance a new road is designed and steps are taken to commence the construction works of that
on a future date, the land area on both sides of the road from the line decided by the Divisional
Engineer, as shown or as described on a map or plan should be declared by the Minister as the limits
of constructing buildings of the proposed road.
(2) When it is declared by the Minister, permission to build a certain new building within the reservation
declared on such a declaration should not be awarded by the officers entrusted with the responsibility
of issuing permission to construct buildings.
28.(1) It is not legal to encroach a road or a land belonging to the Provincial Council situated adjoining to the
limits of the buildings by a person.
(2) Divisional Engineer and officers working under his authority should have the authority under this
statute to do the surveying for the duty of verifying illegal encroachments.
Control of building
activity within
proposed
construction limits
Encroaching land
illegally

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'24
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2010
699
(3) It is legal to evict or release such illegal encroaching people mentioned in Section (2) of 28 above by the
Divisional Engineer or officers working under his authority.
29. Ordering a person doing obstructions or improper encroachments on a Provincial thoroughfare to remove
or stop those obstructions and improper encroachments immediately or on a given date or before that date by a notice
in writing by the Divisional Engineer is legal.
If taking action according to the order is rejected or neglected by the person receiving that order within a
reasonable period, or otherwise if there is a doubt regarding the actual person who should receive that order, taking
action to remove or stop such an obstruction or an improper encroachment immediately by the Divisional Engineer or
when required by a person authorized in writing by the Divisional Engineer to enter a particular residence, a garden, an
enclosure or any other premises with certain tools and things required to remove or stop that. Further, the person who
has done obstruction and improper encroachments should pay the expenses incurred bona fide under this statute by the
Divisional Engineer or persons authorized by him when informed by the Divisional Engineer. If the relevant payments
are not done by the said person it should be reported to the Magistrate Court having judiciary powers by the Divisional
Engineer with an affidavit and on reporting that way, the court will recover the amount mentioned in the report with the
payment of the costs which shall appear to the court to have been properly incurred as a fine and credited to the General
Fund of the Provincial Council. However, if a removal has been done after the due production of all this deeds,
documents and instruments effecting the title of that premises, the Divisional Engineer is liable to pay for the entire
losses and damages happened thereby. But if the owner claiming to be the owner of that premises refuses or neglects to
produce those deeds, documents and instruments or otherwise if they are not produced the removal of that building,
enclosure or encroaching should be caused by the Divisional Engineer. Then if it is adjudged that the premised belongs
to the party claiming to be the owner, the Divisional Engineer is not liable to pay for any damage or loss happened.
P
ART V
DAMAGES AND OFFENCES DONE TO THOROUGHFARES AND PUNISHMENTS
30. Any of the following actions relevant to this statute is an offence and after conviction by a Magistrates in
a Magistrate Court the person doing that offence will be subjected to a fine from Rupees Five Thousand to Tweny-five
Thousand or an imprisonment not less than 6 months more and not than one year or a punishment of both the said
ways :–
(1) Destruction of a road, a section of a road, a Mile post/Kilo meter post, lamp posts, dams, bridges,
items controlling the vehicle driving, fences or any other construction or item pertaining to a road ;
(2) Removal or destruction of a tree, grass sods or a fence grown under the authority of the Divisional
Engineer in a road or on both sides of the road ;
(3) Removal of a barricade, barriers or any other thing placed for the purpose of preventing the use of the
road or for the purpose of preventing a danger or damage to people using the road ;
(4) When loading or when unloading or otherwise piling, collecting, putting up or heaping timber, timber
logs, sand, stone or other materials on a road ;
(5) Gathering, collecting or taking away stones, sand, gravel, earth grass sods or any other material from
a road ;
(6) Leading or chasing whatever kind of animals in a way to damage a road ;
(7) Obstructing rain water to flow along a side drain built for the water to flow or water to flow out from
a culvert or any other construction ;
(8) Dragging timber, logs, stone, iron or other materials or hauling when taking by a trailor vehicle in a way
to damage the road ;
(9) Driving machinery, without air filled wheels on a road ;
(10) Breaking or damaging any of a dam, ditch, drain or a pit pertaining to a road, or otherwise a waterway
built on or across a road or on the surface of a road ;
Removal of illegal
constructions
obstructions and
improper
encroachments
Damages to
thoroughfares.

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'24
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2010
700
(11) Digging, excavating mines or any other activity for whatever a purpose across, along or under a road.
(12) Attaching additions to a house so as to project over the outer edge of a side drain of a road, or damaging
or filling or doing any obstruction to the side drain of a road for the purpose of loading goods or
unloading goods in front of a house, covering or closing over a section of a road or its side drain by what
ever kind of temporary supports or any other method ;
(13) Closing a hole in a culvert or a construction in half or fully or obstructing it or raising a land adjoining
a bridge, culvert or a road to a level higher than the existing level by filling earth or another method or
erecting a construction or otherwise preventing water to flow freely, obstructing to it or taking some
other action to stop it ;
(14) Clearing, cutting, excavating a land or a dam situated below the surface of a road or working in any
other way to cause damages to the road ;
(15) Dumping stones, earth, sand, rubbish, paddy husks, saw dust or any other waste material or putting
or diverting or allowing to flow waste water or impure water or allowing to happen so, to a thoroughfare
or side drains of a road or a culvert or a bridge.
31.(1) The Divisional Engineer has the authority to inform a person doing any damaging activity to a road to
stop immediately, to minimize or to change that activity.
(2) It is legal to enter into a particular land by the Divisional Engineer or an officer authorized by him with
their labourers, tools, equipment and machinery to stop or prevent a certain damage done to a
thoroughfare. Any compensation for a damage happened as a result of that to the land or property
should not be paid.
(3) The Divisional Engineer has the authority and the permission to prohibit all persons to ride an animal,
or drag an animal or a cart or driving vehicles along a road or a certain section of a road for a certain
period the Divisional Engineer considers necessary for repairing, making or renovating purposes of a
road or in a dangerous situation.
32. Any of the activities mentioned below will be an offence under the statute and when convicted regarding
such an offence by a Magistrate Court should be subjected to a fine not less than Rupees Five Hundred and not more
than Rupees Five Thousand or an imprisonment not less than six months and not more than two years or both the
punishments :–
(1) Obstructing or preventing willingly by driving a vehicle, cart, boat, raft or any other transport along
a public thoroughfare ;
(2) Constructing a fence or any other obstruction or keeping it for long in a road, channel or a river causing
it dangerous and obstructive for easy riding ;
(3) Remaining or allowing to remain a cart, vehicle, motor vehicle, container or machinery on a road for a
longer period than necessary to remove it in an accident unless in an occurrence of an accident or a
negligence ;
(4) Remaining any machinery, broken vehicle or any other vehicle on a thoroughfare without a light during
period of sunset and sunrise ;
(5) Remaining stones, bricks, timber, oil, glass or any other material on a road, a river or a channel or
throwing any of them in that road, river or channel ;
(6) Collecting tubes, pipes or any other thing or tying coir rope, rope or wire along or across a thoroughfare ;
(7) Hanging mats, clothes, flags or other certain materials for sale, exhibition purposes or some other
purpose on a thoroughfare or in a thoroughfare or otherwise tying ropes or creepers along or across a
thoroughfare and hanging clothes for drying ;
Duties with officers
regarding damages to
thoroughfares
Damages to
thoroughfares.

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'24
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2010
701
(8) Releasing cattle, buffaloes, goats, sheep, horses, dogs or animals belonging to any of the kind to a
thoroughfare or into a thoroughfare.
(9) Keeping the animals mentioned in Sub-section (8) above tied and tethered allowing them to go to a
thoroughfare or into a thoroughfare.
(10) Washing vehicles, motor vehicles, cattle or other animals or other things in a thoroughfare.
(11) Obstructing or closing down drains and culverts on either side of a thoroughfare when reaching the
boundaries of land or properties owned.
(12) Constructing notice boards or name boards or any other permanent or temporary structure on the road
surface or road shoulders or in the road reservation or on a side drain of a thoroughfare.
33.(1) It is legal to enter a land or a property by the Divisional Engineer, his officers, labourers with tools and
equipments necessary to prevent remove, break or destroy and obstruction done on a thoroughfare or
into a thoroughfare.
(2) It is legal to take necessary and suitable procedures to recover the expenses incurred by the Divisional
Engineer, his officers, labourers with the necessary tools and equipments in respect of preventing an
obstruction done on the thoroughfare or into the thoroughfare.
(3) It is legal to seize any animal mentioned in Sub-sections (8) and (9) of Section 32 above by the
Divisional Engineer or any person authorized by the Divisional Engineer and hand over the custody
of that animal to the nearest Police Station. The owner will not be entitled to claim any compensation
for the animals seized as mentioned above by the Divisional Engineer or a person authorized by the
Divisional Engineer.
(4) Police or any other authority or a Government officer has the permission to keep such an animal tied
or tethered in a road until that animal is loaded or unloaded. However, such tying or tethering should
be done in a way not to cause any difficulty to persons using the road.
34.(1) If a land or an attachment to that land is requried to build, widen, divert, alter a road or to maintain as
a reservation or for the construction of a bridge, a culvert, a course, a wall or any other structure, or
build a fence, drain, dam or cut a ditch or for any road development purpose the said, land and the
attachment can be acquired as and when required by the Government on behalf of the Uva Provincial
Council under the Land Acquisition Act (Authority 460).
(2) In an instance a crown land in the Province is required for the activities of the statute action should be
taken in accordance with the Section 1-1.2 in Appendix II in the 13th Amendment of the Constitution.
35. The under mentioned regulations should be applicable for the calculation of the amount of compensation
that should be paid in respect of land acquisition or any other purpose.
(1) In respect of land and properties acquired for the purpose of building new thoroughfares compensations
should be paid in accordance with the regulations in the Land Acquisition Act (Authority 460).
(2) In respect of paying compesnation regarding a building or any other construction situated within the
building construction limit of an existing land, compensation should be paid taking into consideration
the regulations in the National Policy in force.
36.(1) It is the responsibility of all the Law enforcing officers such a officers in the Police Department,
Divisional Secretary, Grama Seva Niladharis, Technical Officers, Peace Officers to provide their
assistance within their respective territories to the officers of the Uva Provincial Road Development
Department in respect of activities done in thoroughfares and prevention of crimes and offences
mentioned in this statute within their respective territories.
(2) Every such officer aware of such an offence or a crime according to his personal knowledge or on the
information supplied by other persons should make a complaint property regarding that to the
Director under this statute.
Duties with the
officers regarding
damages done to
thoroughfares.
Acquisition of
properties.
Payment of
compensation.
Assisting officers
enforcing the Law.

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'24
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2010
702
37. Every authorized officer or a person performing any violent deed, a misbehavior, a grievance or an uncalled
for vexatious annoyance under the pretence of acting under the authority of this statute should be an offender for an
offence under this statute.
38. When relevant punishments are not definitely ordered for an offence by the regulations mentioned under
this statute, every person breaching a regulation or an order given in a command of this statute or neglecting to act
accordingly should be an offender for an offence under this statute and on conviction by a brief court inquiry held before
a Magistrate will be subjected to a fine not less than Rupees Five Hundred and not more than Rupees Twenty-five
Thousand or an imprisonment of not less than six months and not more than two years or to both the punishments.
39.(1) By the expenses that can be recovered under this statute mean the amount of expenses genuinely
incurred by or for the Provincial Council and an additional amount of twenty-five percent (25%)
added to that amount. That is, the expenditure should be calculated by adding an additional amount of
twenty-five percent (25%) to the genuine expenditure.
(2) A bill showing the amount of money that has to be recovered should be prepared and certified by the
Divisional Engineer and should be handed over to the person responsible by the Divisional Engineer
ordering the person responsible to pay the amount in the bill in full on or before the date specified.
(3) In an instance that person not acting according to the order in Sub-section (2) of Section 39, adding an
additional amount of twenty-five percent (25%) to the genuine expenditure and after certifying should
refer that matter to the judiciary in accordance with the Sub-section 26(8) be of this statute.
40. No person is entitled to exclusive rights regarding ownership, possession or use in respect of a road or a
section of a road this statute is applicable.
41. if any person is putting up any construction, a wall or any kind of a fence between the building limits and
the road entitlement limits mentioned in Section 26 in this permission for that should be obtained from the Divisional
Engineer and he should enter in to an agreement with the Divisional Engineer to the effect that he will remove the said
wall or whatever the kind of fence put up on his own willingness without asking for any compensation when widening
or developing the road is being done and if not removed no hindrance or obstruction will be done for the removal by the
Road Development Department and that expenses incurred by the Department for such a removal and with the
Departmental charges will be paid to the Divisional Engineer within seven days of being informed to pay.
42. All the notifications specified to be given under this statute should be issued in Sinhala, Tamil and English
languages. Handing over of any notification or permit or order or command addressed to any person personally to that
relevant person or pasting in a place clearly seen in his residence or handing over to the office in case of a company or
a corporation or sending under registered post to that person or company or corporation should be considered as a
proper handing over.
43. If there is a discrepancy among the Sinhalese, Tamil or English versions of this statute the Sinhalese
version should be enforced.
44. Unless another meaning is required in respect of the terms in this statute –
"Province" means the Uva Province consisting of the two administrative Districts Badulla and Moneragala.
"Provincial Council" means the Uva Provincial Council.
"Provincial Minister" means the Minister of Uva Provincial Council in charge of Road Development.
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the Ministry in charge of the Uva Provincial Road Development.
"Roads" has the same meaning given to it in the Thoroughfare Ordinance.
"Development of Road" means the construction of new roads and maintenance and renovation of new and
existing roads.
"Ela" means any public channel including the full extent of water way form bank to bank together with the
sides, towing paths, banks, drains and ditches.
Discipline of officers.
Offences and
Penalties.
Recovery of
Expenditure.
In a discrepancy the
Sinhalese version to
be enforced.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 15 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'24
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2010
703
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
"Provincial Road Director" means the Director of the Uva Provincial Road Development Department.
"Chief Engineer" means all the Chief Engineers or Chief Executive Engineers of the Uva Provincial Road
Development Department.
"Divisional Engineer" means all the Divisional Engineers or Divisional Executive Engineers or Executive
Engineers in charge of Divisions.
"National Highways" means National Highways declared by the Minister in charge of Highways in the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and published in the gazette.
"Public duty" means a duty considered as a public duty under this statute or under any written law.
"Utility Services" means any activity such as digging drains to bury telephone wires, digging drains for
laying water pipes, erecting electric posts, telephone posts.
06–487