

<!-- page 1 -->

1 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'08
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA  - 08.02.2019
w;s úfYI
wxl 2109$32 - 2019 fmnrjdß ui 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2019'02'08
No. 2109/32 - FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 08,  2019
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
1A  PG 4384 — 10  (02/2019)
  The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
PROVINCIAL COUNCIL NOTIFICA TIONS
SOUTHERN  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  OF  DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC   OF  SRI LANKA
Irrigation Precept of the Southern Provincial Council
I, Udalamaththa Gamage Dayawansha Ariyathilaka, Minister of Trade of the Southern Provincial Council do hereby notify
that the draft of the Irrigation Precept No. ...... of 2019 of the Southern Provincial Council publi shed hereunder will be
presented in the Southern Provincial Council of the expiry of two weeks from the date of its publication in this gazette. Any
person who wishes to make any representation or amendment regarding any of the provisions of the sai d precept, shall
forward the same to me within the said period.
UDALAMATHTHA G AMAGE D AYAWANSHA ARIYATHILAKA
Minister Southern Provincial Ministry of Agriculture, Agrarian
Development, Irrigation, Water Supply and Drainage, Food Supply
and Distribution, Trade and Cooperative Development.
..
23rd Day of January 2019,
Office of the Minister of Trade,
Galle.


<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'08
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA  - 08.02.2019
2 A
Southern Province Irrigation Precept, No. ........ of   2019
A Precept to make provisions to devise ways and means to plan, implement, activate, supervise, monitor
and maintain all irrigation activity, except Southern province's inter provincial Irrigation schemes and inter
provincial lands and irrigation schemes, in order to establish a Southern Provincial irrigation Development
Fund to facilitate such activities and to provide for all related activities in pursuance of article 19 of list 1 in
attachment 9 of the 13th amendment to the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
This Precept will replace the Irrigation Ordinance No. 32 of 1948 amended by the Irrigation amendment Act
no. 1 of 1951, Irrigation Amendment Act No .48 of 1968, Irrigation Amendment Act No. 37 of 1973, Irrigation
amendment Act No. 23 of 1983 Irrigation amendment Act No. 34 of 1990 and Irrigation Amendment Act No.
13 of 1994.
Southern Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka will enact as under.
1. This Precept will be known as the Southern Provincial Irrigation Precept No. ...........  of  2019.
2. This Precept will be effective from the date it is sanctioned by the Governor of the Southern Province
1st Chapter
3. In order to implement the provisions of this Precept, the Southern Provincial Irrigation Department
(hereinafter known as the 'Department) will be established.
(1) Accordingly, for the purpose of exercising the authority this Precept would bestow upon the
Department, a Director shall be appointed in the title of Southern Provincial Irrigation Director
and that director shall be the head of the Department.
(2) To achieve the wider objectives of the department and to expedite the work flow and facilitate
the management, the department will be comprised with an Additional Provincial Director, Chief
Irrigation Engineer, 3 District Irrigation Engineers, 3 Irrigation Engineers and a supporting staff.
(3) Provisions of article 32 of the Provincial Council Act, amended by Provincial Council (amend
ment) Act. No. 28 of 1990 shall be relevant in appointing the Provincial Irrigation Director,
Additional Provincial Irrigation Director.
4. The Provincial Irrigation Director should be subject to the general administration and directives of
the Secretary in charge of irrigation.
2nd Chapter
5. The Director shall have the following powers
(1)  To plan and implement the existing irrigation schemes within the province more productively.
(2)  To plan and implement the new irrigation schemes within the province more productively.
(3)  To obtain the corporation of the farmer community towards the rehabilitation, maintenance and
 conservation of irrigation systems.
(4)  To bring before the law those persons that cause damages to irrigation systems and irrigation
 reserves. To make necessary charges and complaints.
Powers of the
Director
Prologue
Concise Name
Effective date
Establishing the
Department
Appointing a
Head of the
Department
Composition of
the Department
under the
directive of the
Secretary

<!-- page 3 -->

3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'08
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA  - 08.02.2019
(5)  To map out and declare the irrigation reserves
(6)  To prevent and minimize the environmental eventualities that cause dilapidation and deterioration
 of the irrigation schemes and to develop environmentally protective schemes.
(7)  To take necessary steps to construct and maintain responsive devices to minimize
 destructions caused by floods.
(8) To take required step to effect responsive constructions and maintenance to prevent sea water
 from flowing in through paddy lands
(9) To appoint officers to supervise Irrigation network Development Committees.
(10) To enter in to a particular property as required with prior intimation for an inquiry or
 investigation, in pursuance of the objectives and duties connected to the Precept.
6. The Director shall delegate powers vested in his office to the Additional Director of irrigation and
to the Chief Irrigation Engineer in writing.
7. The scope of work and the objectivity of the Director shall be listed as follows.
(1) The Southern Provincial Director of Irrigation shall identify, document, map out and declare, at
Grama Niladhari level, all types of irrigation systems that fall within the subject itinerary of the
department.
However, if the irrigation systems so declared in the notice warrants change or new inductions,
such changes or inductions should be declared by the Director in concurrence with the
Minister.
(2)  The Director should devise the Annual, Short-term and Long-term plans for new constructions,
 rehabilitations, development and conservation of the provincial irrigation schemes.
(3)  Should submit the plans prepared to the Provincial Planning committee or the Chief Secretary and
obtain approval for the plans before those are executed.
(4) Should establish, maintain and register a committee called the Irrigation Development and
Conservation committee at field level for the Provincial Irrigation project.
(5) Should establish, maintain & register, Irrigation Network Development and Conservation
committees for the whole irrigation networks in a way that it represents Irrigation Development
and Conservation committees.
3rd Chapter
 8. The Director of the Southern Province Irrigation Department should establish an Irrigation
Conservation & Development committee at field level' for every irrigation Development project.
(1) To be appointed as a member of an Irrigation Conservation & Development Committee, a
   person should possess the following qualifications
(a) He/She should be a person whose main livelihood is agriculture
(b) He/She should be a person of not less than 18 years of age
Delegation of the
Director's powers
The Director's
objectives and
the scope of
work
Establishing
commitees at the
'field-level'
membership,
Quoram,
Constitution and
the work
objectives

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'08
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA  - 08.02.2019
4 A
(c) Should be either a permanent resident or a person engaged in agriculture for a period
of two years or more in the area under the purview of the Irrigation Conservation &
Development committee in which you aspire to be member.
(2) To be appointed as an Associated member of a Irrigation Conservation & Development Committee,
  a person should possess the following Qualifications;
(a) Even though not a person whose main livelihood is  agriculture  he/she  should  be, a
resident, owner or a person in possession of an agricultural land in the area under the
perview of the committee in which you aspire to be member.
(b) Should be a person engaged in the dealership/marketing of goods related to agriculture
or agricultural produce.
(3) With approval of the Southern Provincial Agriculture Director and in concurrence with the
membership of the subject committee, the Agricultural Instructor of the area could be appointed
as the consultant of the relevant Irrigation Conservation & Development Committee.
(4) A committee so appointed should have l/3rd of its membership in attendance to make a quoram at
a committee meeting.
(5) Every Irrigation Conservation & Development Committee should function under a constitution
approved  by the Director.
9. The duties of an irrigation Conservation & Development Committee should be as follows.
(1) Every Irrigation Conservation & Development Committee  should bring to  the  notice  of  the
department all maintenance activities associated with Water cascades. Tanks,  Anicuts, Brooks
and Water Bubbles, within the area of its purview and execute those under the supervision of the
department
(2) Ensure that all irrigation management activities of the area are done properly and in time
(3) Ensure that the corporations necessary for efficient management of Water supplied by irrigation
works and used in agricultural activities are obtained through the relevant institutions.
(4) To render necessary assistance and encouragement to the agricultural  organizations  to  grow
paddy or alternative crops in the paddy and agricultural lands as suitable
(5) To render necessary assistance and prompting to the agricultural  associations  to  perform  the
customs and traditions associated with paddy and other cultivations.
(6) To initiate activity to conserve the soil by safeguarding it from disease and pesticides
10 (1) With the consent of the majority in the Irrigation Conservation & Development Committee a
person should be  appointed as the Field level Agent" ( Yaya Neyojitha) and that agent could be
either a member or an office bearer of the Irrigation Conservation & Development Committee.
(2)  The Field level representative appointed could continue to hold Office for three years unless the
appointment is canceled.
11. The office of the field level representative appointed as per article  10 above may fall vacant in the
following situations.
Appointment of
a "Field level
Agent" and the
period of Office
Duties of an
irrigation
Conservation &
Development
Committiee
Qualifications of
an Associated
member
Resignation &
Removal of the
'Field level Agent'

<!-- page 5 -->

5 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'08
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA  - 08.02.2019
(1)  The death of the field level representative
(2)   A letter of resignation sent to the Director to which the Director has responded stating that the
resignation has been accepted.
(3)  Removal by the Director on revelations of inefficiency and Irregularities as a result of an investigation
sanctioned by the Director.
(4) By a proposal carried with a 2/3rd majority of the Irrigation Conservation & Development  Committee.
12 (1)  An appeal, connected to removals effected under clause (2) and (3) of article 11 could be made in
writing to the Secretary by the person subjected to the removal within 30 days of such removal,
and the ruling issued by the secretary on such an appeal should be final.
(2) . Accordingly, when appeal is made as per clause (1) of this article, the Irrigation Conservation &
Development Committee should refrain from appointing an alternative representative until a rul-
ing is given by the Secretary or until 30 days lapse from the date of removal.
13.  The duties of a Field level representative should be as follows:
(1) To protect the irrigation works in the area within his/her purview and to extend cooperation to
the department to bring before law those causing damages to the irrigation works, to take
necessary steps to conserve water issued by irrigation tanks and other irrigation systems and to
assist and direct in the conduct of agricultural activity in keeping with planned Agri- Timetables.
(2) To take necessary action at any required moment in keeping with the paddy lands register of the
area within his/her purview, maintained by the Agrarian Development Department.
(3) To hand over the facility to use water and the main irrigation bund and the main water sub
division according the entitled share based on, sowing extent and due share of each
landowner or custodian listed as per the Paddy Field register of the Agrarian Development
Department and to enter in to a written agreement with the parties concerned on the process
required to effect such handing over.
(4) To mark the boundaries with the assistance of the Director on a suitable system based on the
partitions made for each landowner or custodian by the Field level Agent (Yaya niyojitha).
(5) To ensure that the irrigation section marked for each party is devoid of shrubs and weeds and
that the channel bunds washed away are rehabilitated with the help of soil brought, either from
the reservation area or from outside and that those are maintain properly & suitably.
14 (1).  If any activity is being carried out in breach of the agreement reached as per clause (3) of article
13., the Field level Agent should report such situations to the Director.
(2) .In the event of a reporting to the Director as stated in clause (1) above, the Director or an officer
duly empowered by the Director, may issue a 7-day notice to the party that is in violation. If the
party in violation still continues to refrain from rehabilitating and maintaining his/her share of
the channel portion, the director may report the matter to a Magistrate in a Magistrate court that
has jurisdiction over the area, and the Magistrate may summon the concerned party on such
reporting and issue a suitable ruling to ensure that the principal maintenance work is accom-
plished.
Duties of the
field level Agent
The Director
reporting
violations to a
Magistrate
Appeals against
removal

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'08
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA  - 08.02.2019
6 A
4th Chapter
15. An Irrigation Network Development Committee comprising of representatives of Irrigation Conservation
& Development committees and based on the physical location of the irrigation projects should be
established covering an irrigation network.
16 (1) From  among  the  Field  Level  Agents  who  represent  Irrigation  Conservation &  Development
committees, three  representatives  should  be  appointed  as  the President,  Secretary  and  the
Treasurer by the members.
(2) The members of every Irrigation Network Development Committee should appoint a suitable execu-
tive committee comprising of a President, a Secretary and a Treasurer being permanent office
bearers and other members not exceeding Four.
(3) In the event of an office of the committee falling vacant, until a suitable 'Field Level Agent "Y AY A
NIYOJITHAY A" is elected by a vote of members, the Director should appoint a suitable member
representing the committee to carry out the duties of that office.
(4) In a situation where some opposition has arisen with regard to the activities of the office of a
particular officer of the Irrigation Network Development Committee, the members of the committee
may forward a proposal with the consent of 2/3rd of the members to remove that officer from office
to the Director. The Director should take suitable action in such a situation.
17. The duties of the Irrigation Network Development Committee should be as follows.
(1) To work towards the conservation of its own irrigation network,
(2) To present proposals and ideas at rehabilitation and development activities to give priority to
irrigations works of the network.
(3) To protect all irrigation reserves and catchment areas located within the network.
(4) To assist in the protection of all irrigation systems and water works areas within the network.
(5) As per the provincial Irrigation department's approved network Plan, to assist the officers of the
department to protect the reserves and the characteristic manifestations that should be present
within the network
18. The Director should register every Irrigation Network Development Committee.
19     (1) Every Irrigation Network Development Committee should maintain an account in its name, in a
commercial bank recognized by the Government.
(2) The account maintained by the committee should be audited by a person empowered by the
Director and a report of that audit meant for every financial year should be forwarded to the
Director by the President of the committee before the 31st March of the year following the
financial year.
20. No person should release irrigation water under an irrigation project towards a commercial purpose
which is not  agricultural.
However, if the Director grants permission for water to be released for a commercial enterprise
which is not agricultural, the fees chargeable for such release of water should be in keeping with the
directives issued under this precept.
Duties of the
irrigation
Network
Development
Committee.
Use of irrigated
water for a
purpose orher
than agriculture.
Establishing an
Irrigation
network
Development
Committee.
Composition of
the irrigation
Network
Development
Committee.

<!-- page 7 -->

7 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'08
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA  - 08.02.2019
5th Chapter
21. To facilitate the activities aimed at achieving the objectives of this Precept, a fund titled the
Provincial Irrigation Development Fund would be established herewith.
22. (1). The Fund established under article 21 above should be a corporation by its name having
perpetual succession  and a common seal with the capacity to sue and be sued under
its name.
(2) Provincial  Irrigation  Development Fund  (hereinafter  known  as the Fund)  should be
constituted with an administrative board comprising the following members appointed
by virtue of the office they hold.
(a) The Secretary to the subject Minister of the Southern Provincial Council
(b) Deputy Chief Secretary (Planning & Operation) of the Sothern Province
(c) Deputy Chief Secretary (Finance) of the Sothern Province
(d) Director of Irrigation-Southern Province
(e) Director of Agriculture- Southern Province
(3) The Secretary to the Ministry shall be the Chairman of the Fund
(4) The Secretary of the Fund shall the Chief Irrigation Engineer of the Southern Province.
(5) The Accounts of the Fund should be prepared by the Chief Accountant of the department
subject to the administration of the Secretary to the Fund
23. The objectives of the Fund should be as follows.
(1) To accomplish the maintenance, operations, development and rehabilitation activities of
the irrigation projects in the area in a more efficient manner.
(2) To conduct research and development activity connected to the field of Irrigation.
(3) To control the disasters caused by floods and sea water more effectively
(4) To provide facilities for the conservation of irrigation reserves
(5) To  improve  the  human  resources of   the  Irrigation  Conservation  &  Development
committees and the Irrigation Network Development committees.
24. The scope and authority of the Fund should include the following.
(1) To hold, dispose, purchase, lease or sell property
(2) To enter into agreements with outside parties on whatever activity that contribute
towards furtherance  of the Fund's objectives.
(3) To identify,  sanction  and  implement  the projects that are within the objectives of the
Fund, whatever their form and content may be, and to procure the  required  resources
and consultancy at implementation.
The  objectives
of the Fund
Scope and
Authority of the
Fund
Institution of the
Provincial
irrigation
Development
Fund

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'08
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA  - 08.02.2019
8 A
(4) To procure and obtain all  physical  resources  and  services  that are  required  in  the
implementation of activities designed in furtherance of the objectives of the Fund.
(5) To prescribe the human effort required in various activities conducted in furtherance of
the objectives of the Fund and to meet such expenditure.
(6) To initiate activity that  falls  in line  with  the  precept  and  to  meet  all  expenditure in
connection with such activity or on item that needs to be discharged in the interest of
the fund and the precept.
25.The receipts to the Fund would be from following sources.
(1) Fees charged for supplying irrigated water to commercial purposes
other than  agriculture
(2) Monies sanctioned by the Government from time to time as aid.
(3) Monies sanctioned by the Southern Provincial Council for activities of the fund
(4) Monies received as donations from individuals, institutions or organizations for the
development  of irrigation facilities in the area.
(5) Monies levied as service fees by the committees.
(6) Monies collected through exhibitions, lotteries and such customary avenues.
26. Expenditure met by the Fund would as follows.
(1) Any item of expense connected to an activity that is in furtherance of the objectives of
this Precept.
(2) Expenses incurred in the discharge of obligations under the agreements entered in to in
the name of the Fund and expenses connected to the purchase of goods and obtaining
of services in the name of the Fund.
(3) Expenses connected to payment for human endeavors and other payments in connection
with services supplied for the Fund.
(4) Expenses incurred in the discharge of whatever responsibilities connected to the Fund.
27. All Current and other accounts in favour of the Fund should be maintained at a bank approved by
the government
.
28. The financial year for the transactions of the Fund should be a calendar year from 1st Jan. to 31st
December and the Secretary to the Funds should prepare accounts of the Fund for every financial
year and submit same before 31st March of the following year to the Chief Secretary.
29. The auditing of the accounts of the Fund should be in keeping with the provisions of the constitution
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Expenses of
Fund
Receipts to the
Fund
Maintaining the
Fund accounts &
their Auditing

<!-- page 9 -->

9 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'08
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA  - 08.02.2019
(1) The Annual report prepared by the Secretary to the Fund on administration and maintenance of
accounts of the Fund for every calendar year should be submitted to the Administrative Board of
the Fund before the 31st May of the year following, and the report approved by the Board should
be submitted to the Minister before the 30th June of that year. 2
(2) The Administrative report on the Fund presented to the Minister, accompanied by, a copy of the
Audited  Accounts   of   the  year   and  a   copy  of  the Auditor General's report on the accounts,
should be presented to the Southern Provincial Council with the approval of the Board of  Ministers
of the Southern Provincial Council.
6th Chapter
30. It is an offense to commit the following acts under this precept
(1) (a) To obstruct the activities conducted under the precept.
(b) To disturb the activities conducted under the precept
(c) To place the activities of the Precept in confinement without due approval.
(d) To cause the activities of the precept to be disturbed or confined.
(e) To permit the waste of water collected either intentionally of with malice.
(f) To cut down trees
(g) To construct unauthorized constructions.
(h) To carry out unauthorized cultivations.
(2) To remove or cause to remove, without due permission, sand or mineral sands, from, a tank, a
stream in the catchment area, an irrigation works, a waterway, a tank access, a dam, a conservation,
a bund, a river bank or an irrigation reserve.
(3) To allow or cause to allow any waste matter to be released to, an irrigation works, a stream, a
waterway or a paddy land or to wash machines or vehicles in such a way to make that happen.
(4) To construct a tank, to dig a waterway or to construct a structure without the written permission of
the Director.
(5) To release animals or livestock to roam free causing damages to an irrigation system, stream,
waterway or to an irrigation reserve
(6) To carry out agricultural activity in the reservation areas of the tank without due permission in
writing from the Director.
(7)  To grow paddy, other irrigable crops or to multi-crop without permission, against the agreement
on the crops reached at the cultivation term meeting held.
(8) To conduct the affairs of one's activity in a way that does unduly impinge on the rights of
others by such activity.
Offences.

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'08
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA  - 08.02.2019
1 0 A
31. A person pronounced guilty of any of the above offenses, except on clause (2) of article 30 above,
by a Magistrate Court, should be subjected to a penalty of, either a fine not less than Rs. 10,000 not
exceeding Rs. 50,000/ or a term of imprisonment not less than 6 months and not exceeding 12 months,
or a penalty instituted in a combination of both.
32. A person pronounced guilty of an offense under clause (2) of article 30 above, by a Magistrate
Court, should be subjected to a penalty of, either a fine not less than Rs. 50,000 and not exceeding
Rs. 100,000/ or a term of imprisonment not less than 6 months and not exceeding 12  months or a
penalty instituted in a combination of both.
33. The Minister should enact directives on account of all instances where the precept states, 'that the
Minister is required to do so' and also on account of all matters where it is required to do so in the
attainment of the objectives of the precept.
34. All officers of the department should be considered as Public servants in terms of the definition
given in the penal code.
35. In the event where there is inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil versions of this
Precept, the Sinhala version should be taken to prevail.
36. Unless an alternative definition is required, the following terms used in this precept should mean as
below.
(1) 'Provincial Council' should mean the Southern Provincial Council
(2) 'Minister' should mean the Minister in charge of the subject of Irrigation in the Southern
Provincial Council
(3) 'Secretary' should mean the Secretary to the Ministry in charge of Irrigation in the Southern
Province
(4) 'Provincial  Irrigation  Department'  or  the  'department'  should mean the Southern Provincial
department in charge of irrigation.
(5) 'Additional Provincial Director' should mean the Deputy Head of the Southern Provincial
Department of Irrigation.
(6) 'Paddy Lands' as per the definition given in this Precept, should mean Lands that are being used,
or lands that have the potential to be used, for cultivation of paddy and this may include lands
that  have  been  dispossessed  under  the  Private  Lands  and  Land  Development  Ordinance,
Government Land Ordinance or under any other such Act.
(7) 'Field' should mean any part of the cultivable land that has been sanctioned by the Southern
provincial department of Irrigation either by naming or by use of the same.
(8) 'Custodian' should mean the owner, or the leasehold owner,  of  the  land  or  any  other  person
engaged in the cultivation of the land for agricultural purpose such as the 'Angda' cultivator and
also include those who use or are in custody of lands dispossessed under the Land Development
Ordinance or any such other ordinances.
(9) 'Irrigation Tank' should mean one or more irrigation areas comprising of, reservations, streams,
canals and paddy fields legitimately included in the Agricultural Land owner's register.
Definitions

<!-- page 11 -->

1 1 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'08
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA  - 08.02.2019
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
(10) 'Cascade or Irrigation network' should mean one or more irrigation areas comprising of, irrigated
creations, catchment areas collecting water, reservations, streams, canals and paddy fields, that
revolves around a stream of water that spawns from a specific sloping area flowing downstream
in one direction, overflowing due to rain and flowing down, collected finally before It reaches a
river or a main river by an irrigation construction that enables the control and management of such
water.
(11) 'Service fees' should mean a sum of money levied by the Irrigation Development committee on the
basis of units of water being a contribution made to a Fund enacted as per the rules and regulations
by the Minister in charge of the subject, in keeping with this Precept, to carry out rehabilitation
and maintenance work of the networks of minor irrigations, small tanks, streams bunds etc. for
their providence when the monies due for such activity from the Government or from the Provincial
Council is either not received or is delayed.
(12) 'A Share' should mean an irrigation share entitlement of the water way or a main channel calculated
in proportion to the ratio of farmers and the area of paddy lands listed in the paddy land register,
in a minor irrigation scheme or a plot of paddy lands that have obtained irrigated water
(13) Irrigation reserve is a part of the irrigation network. It is an area of land determined as required by
the Director, either in connection with any activity of providence of a Canal, Waterway, Tank,
Agri-road or any other such related item or an area required to accommodate additional water in a
flood situation or an area required for the purpose of parking and accommodating the machinery
used by the workers and for the use of workers.
02 - 866