

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
w;s úfYI
wxl 1890$31 - 2014 fkdjeïn¾ ui 27 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2014'11'27
No.1890/31 - THURSDAY   NOVEMBER  27,  2014
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
NORTHERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Finance Statute of the Northern Provincial Council No. 01 of 2014
BY virtue of the powers vested in me under Section 01 of the Finance Statute of the Northern Provincial Council No: 01 of
2014;
I, Canagasabapathy Viswalingam Wigneswaran, Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and Planning hereby publish
for public information the full text of the Finance Statute of the Northern Provincial Council No: 01 of 2014, which was adopted
by the Northern Provincial Council on 05th August 2014; Assented by the Hon. Governor, Northern Province on 17th
September 2014, and brought into operations with effect from 10th November 2014.
C. V . W
IGNESWARAN,
Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and Planning,
Law and Order, Lands, Road Development, electricity,
Housing and Construction, Water Supply, Co-operative
Development, Social Service and Rehabilitation,
Women's Affairs, Industries and Enterprise Promotion,
Tourism, Local Government and Provincial Administration,
Food Supply and Distribution,
Northern Provincial Council.
Chief Minister's Secretariat,
No: 26, Somasundaram Avenue, Jaffna,
19
th November 2014.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
2A
THE FINANCE   STATUTE   OF  THE   NORTHERN   PROVINCE
A Statute to provide for the Imposition and Collection of Taxes and Fees and for matters connected therewith or
incidental thereto in Terms of Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987
This Statute is inconsistent with certain provisions of the Turnover Tax Act, No. 69 of 1981 as amended, the Stamp
Duty Act No. 43 of 1982 as amended, the Excise Ordinance, No. 08 of 1912 as amended, the Prize Competition Act No. 37 of
1957 as amended, the Municipal Councils Ordinance, No. 29 of 1947 as amended, the Urban Councils Ordinance, No. 61 of
1939 as amended, the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987 as amended. This is brought into focus in terms of the relevant
provisions of the Constitution of Sri Lanka.
Whereas the people of the Northern Province have suffered due to man-made destruction and natural disasters in
the past three decades;
Whereas the civil administration of the Northern Province had been dysfunctional during this period and even the
provision and maintenance of the minimum services to the People: of the Northern Province had been seriously affected and
disrupted;
Whereas it has become the primary duty of the Provincial Council to address the pressing needs of the people of the
Northern Province with a view to helping them recover from the ravages and the miseries they suffered in the past;
Whereas development and maintenance of basic infrastructure facilities and the provision of essential services are
imperative to enable the people of the Northern Province to  satisfactory standard of living
Whereas the carrying out of the task of such development, maintenance of infrastructure facilities and provision of
services require substantial sums of money for the Provincial Administration;
Whereas the Provincial Council while being empowered to impose and collect taxes, duties and fees for stipulated
purposes, is deeply conscious of the hardship any unnecessary or unjustified taxation may bring upon the people of the
Northern Province;
AND Whereas the Provincial Council is constrained to raise some revenue for the provision of essential services to
its People:
Be it enacted by the Provincial Council of the Northern Province as follows :
1. (1) This Statute may be cited as the Finance Statute of the Northern Province No. 01 of
2014 and its provisions and Parts shall come into operation on such date or dates as
may be appointed by the Minister by Order published in the Gazette
(2) The Minister may appoint different dates in respect of different provisions and parts to
bring it or them into operation.
PART  A
CHAPTER I
ADMINISTRATION
2. (1) There shall be established a Department known as the Northern Provincial Revenue
Department (hereinafter referred to as the Revenue Department) which shall administer
the provisions of this Statute with due diligence and efficiency.
Short Title and Date
of Operation
Establishment of
Northern Provincial
Revenue
Department.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
(2) There shall be appointed a Commissioner who shall be known as the Northern Provincial
Revenue Commissioner (hereinafter referred to as the Revenue Commissioner) who
shall be the head of the Revenue Department.
(3) The Revenue Department shall be responsible and answerable, through the Board of
Ministers of the Northern Province, to the Northern Provincial Council for due and
efficient administration of the provisions of this Statute and any other statutory
instruments made under it.
( 4) There shall be appointed a Deputy Revenue Commissioner a Senior Assessor and
Assessors as may be necessary for the effective implementation of the Statute.
(5) The Commissioner may authorize an Assessor to exercise, perform or discharge any
power, duty or function which is conferred or imposed on, or assigned to, the
Commissioner by this Statute.
(6) An Assessor exercising , performing or discharging any power, or function conferred
or imposed on, or assigned to, by the Commissioner by any provision of this Statute
shall be deemed for all purposes to be authorized to exercise, perform or discharge that
power, duty or function, until the contrary is proved.
(7) The Commissioner or a Deputy Commissioner may exercise, perform or discharge any
power, duty or function conferred or imposed on, or assigned to, an Assessor by this
Statute.
PART   B
CHAPTER II
IMPOSITION OF TURNOVER  TAX
3. (1) Subject to such limits and exemptions as have been and may be prescribed by law
made by Parliament and other provisions of this Statute and any other Statute, there
shall be charged for every quarter from every person who carries on any business in
the Province, a tax (hereinafter referred to as the “turnover tax”) in respect of the
turnover made by that person in that quarter from that business the rate as shall be
specified by law.
(2) For the purpose of this Part “business” shall mean and include selling by wholesale or
retail of any article as shall be specified by law.
4. (1) A person shall, in respect of any business carried on by him in the Province, be
chargeable with turnover tax for each quarter.
(2) Where a person is chargeable with turnover tax in respect of any business carried on
by him and change of ownership of that business occurs, and if the tax cannot be
recovered and if the business has been in the hands of the previous owner then
notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection (1), the new owner of that business
shall be chargeable with turnover tax as though he had been the owner of that business
immediately before the occurrence of the change of ownership, if the tax cannot be
recovered from the previous owner.
Imposition of
turnover tax
Circumstances in
which a person .
becomes chargeable
with turnover tax

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
4A
CHAPTER III
EXEMPTIONS
5. (1) The Minister may, if he is of the opinion that it is essential for the economic progress of
the Province exempt by Order published in the Gazette, any business or such business
as may be specified which is carried on by any person, from the turnover tax.
(2) Every Order under Subsection (1) shall come into force on date of its publication in the
Gazette or on such later date as may be specified in such Order and shall be brought
before the Provincial Council within a period of three months from the date of the
publication of such Order in the Gazette or, if no meeting of Provincial Council is held
within such period, at the first meeting of Provincial Council held after the expiry of
such period, by a motion that such Order shall be approved.
(3) Any Order which the Provincial Council refuses to approve shall, with effect from the
date of such refusal, be deemed to be revoked but without prejudice to the validity of
such Order  until the date of such refusal, and the notification of the date on which
such Order is deemed to be revoked shall be published in the Gazette.
CHAPTER IV
TURNOVER
6. (1) For the purpose of this Statute "turnover" in relation to any business of selling any
article means the total amount received or receivable from transactions entered into in
respect of that business;
(2) For the purpose of Subsection (1) above "turnover" shall not include any amount
received or receivable by the sale of capital assets.
(3) Where in respect of any quarter turnover tax has been paid in respect of any sum
receivable during that quarter no such tax in respect of that sum need be paid in respect
of that quarter in which such sum is actually received.
(4) In ascertaining the turnover of a business for a quarter there shall be deducted an
amount equal to any bad debt incurred by that business which has become a bad debt
during that quarter, being an amount which has been included in the turnover of that
business for a previous quarter and in respect of which turnover tax has been paid:
Provided that any sum received in any quarter by that business on account of an
amount previously deducted under this Subsection in respect of a bad debt shall be
included in the turnover of that business for the quarter in which that sum is received.
CHAPTER V
RATES OF TAX
7. (1) The rate of turnover tax in respect of any business may be determined by reference to
the nature of such business and  accordingly different rates as shall be specified by law
in respect of different classes or description of business by Regulations published in
the Gazette.
Exemption from
turnover tax
Turnover
Rate of Turnover
Tax

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
(2) The rate of turnover tax in respect of any class or description of business may from
time to time be varied by the Minister by Regulations published in the Gazette.
(3) Every determination under Subsection (1) and every Order made under Subsection (2)
shall come into force on the date of its publication in the Gazette or on such later date
as may be specified in such determination or Order and shall be brought before the
Provincial Council within a period of three months from the date of the publication of
such determination or Order in the Gazette or if no meeting of the Provincial Council is
held within such  period, at the first meeting of the Provincial Council held after the
expiry of such period by a motion that such determination or Order shall be approved.
There shall be set out in a schedule to every such motion the text of the determination
or Order to which the motion refers.
(4) Any determination under Subsection (1) or any Order under Subsection (2) which the
Provincial Council refuses to approve  shall, with effect from the date of such refusal,
be deemed to be revoked but without prejudice to the validity of anything done
thereunder. Notification of the date on which any such determination or Order is deemed
to be revoked shall be published in the Gazette.
8. (1) The Minister may, having regard to the public interest, by Order published in the
Gazette, declare any article specified in such Order to be an excepted article for the
purpose of this Statute Different articles may be declared to be excepted articles in
respect of different classes or descriptions of businesses.
9. Where an article is, under Section 8, declared to be an excepted article in respect of any class
or description of business, no turnover tax shall be payable in respect of the sum realized by
the sale of such article.
CHAPTER VI
RETURNS
10. (1) An Assessor may by notice in writing, direct any person who in the assessment of that
Assessor, is a person chargeable with turnover tax to furnish within the time specified
in such notice a return containing such particulars as the Assessor may require.
(2) It shall be the duty of any person who has received a notice under Subsection (1) to
furnish a return containing duly the particulars sought by the Assessor within the
specified time.
(3) For the purpose of obtaining full information in respect of the turnover from any
business carried on by any person, an Assessor may give notice in writing to such
person requiring him-
(a) to produce for examination or transmit to the Assessor, within the period specified
in such notice, any such books, accounts trade lists, stock lists, registers,
vouchers, cheques, paying in slips, auditor's reports or other documents as
referred to Section 26(5) in his possession as may be specified in such notice.
(b) to attend in person or by an authorized representative at such place and on such
date and at such time as may be specified in the  notice for the purpose of being
examined regarding the turnover in respect of that business.
Excepted articles
No turnover tax on
excepted article
Returns and
information

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
6A
(4) For purposes of this Statute, the Commissioner may give notice in writing to any
person requiring him-
(a) to produce, or transmit, to the Commissioner within the period  specified in such
notice any books, accounts, trade lists, stock lists, registers, vouchers, cheques,
paying-in-slips, electronic devices, auditor's reports or other documents as
referred to in section 26(5) in his possession as may be specified in such notice.
(b) to attend in person or by any authorized representative at such place and on
such date and at such time as may be specified, in such notice so that he may be
examined on any such matter or matters as may be specified in such notice.
(5) A person who attends in compliance with a notice given under Subsection (4) may be
allowed by the Commissioner the expenses  reasonably incurred by him in so attending.
A Deputy Commissioner or an Assessor, as the case may be, with the approval of the
Commissioner, may retain in his custody as long as such retention is necessary for the
purpose of this Statute  any books, accounts, trade lists, stock lists, registers, vouchers
cheques, paying-in-slips, electronic devices, auditor's report or other documents which
are or have been produced before him or transmitted to him under Subsection (3) or
Subsection (4) or which otherwise come or have come into his possession.
(6) An Assessor may give notice in writing to any person as often as he thinks necessary
requiring him to furnish within the time specified in such notice -
(a) fuller or further returns; or
(b) fuller or further information relating to any matter as will in the opinion of the
Assessor be necessary or relevant for the assessment of turnover tax payable by
such person.
(7) A return, statement or form purporting to be furnished under this Statute by or on
behalf of any person shall for all purpose be deemed to have been furnished by that
person or under his authority, as the case may be, unless the contrary is proved, an any
person signing any such return, statement or form shall be deemed to be cognizant of
all matters contained therein.
(8) Where any person fails to comply with the requirement of notice given to him by an
Assessor under Subsection (1), the Commissioner may by a notice in writing -
(a)  impose a penalty not exceeding ten thousand rupees on such person; and
(b) require such person to -
(i) pay such penalty ; and
(ii) furnish the return referred to in the notice given to him by the Assessor,
within such time as may be specified in the notice of the Commissioner.
(9) The Commissioner may reduce or waive any penalty imposed on any person under this
Section if such person proves to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that his failure to
furnish a return was due to circumstances beyond his control and that he has after the
imposition of the penalty furnished such return.
(l0) Where a penalty is imposed on a person under Subsection (8) he shall not be liable to
a prosecution for an offence under Section 32 relating to that notice.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
(11) Reference to the documents will include all documents and electronic devices referred
to in Section 26(5)
CHAPTER VII
ASSESSMENTS
11. (l) Where any person who is chargeable with turnover tax furnishes under Section 10 a
return in respect of any quarter which the Assessor accepts as a correct statement of
the turnover of the business, the Assessor shall assess the amount of the turnover tax,
which such person, in the assessment of the Assessor, ought to pay for that quarter
and shall by notice in writing require that person to pay such amount within a period
stipulated by the Assessor.
(2) The amount so assessed under Subsection (l) in respect of any person for a quarter
shall, subject to the provisions of Section 12 be deemed to be the amount of the
turnover tax payable by him for that quarter.
(3) Where any person who is chargeable with turnover tax submits a return under Section
10 for any quarter and the Assessor does not accept the return as representing correctly
the turnover of his business for the quarter, the Assessor shall assess the amount of
the turnover tax, which such person, in the assessment of the  Assessor, ought to pay
for that quarter and shall by notice in writing require that person to pay such amount
within a period not  exceeding three months.
(4) Where an Assessor does not accept a return furnished by any person under Section 10
for any quarter and makes an assessment or additional assessment on that person for
that quarter under Subsection (3), he shall communicate to such person in writing by
registered letter sent through the post his reasons for not accepting the return.
(5) Where any person who is chargeable with turnover tax fails to furnish a return under
Section 10 for any quarter, the Assessor shall assess the amount of the turnover tax,
which such  person, in the assessment of the Assessor, ought to pay for the quarter
and shall by notice in writing require that person to pay, such amount within a period
stipulated by the Assessor.
(6) The amount so assessed under subsection (5) in respect of any person for a quarter
shall, subject to the provisions of Section 12  be deemed to be the amount of the
turnover tax payable by him for that quarter.
CHAPTER VIII
PAYMENT OF TAX
12. (1) Where a person is required by the Assessor under Section 11 to pay an amount as the
turnover tax with regard to his business in respect of the quarter referred to in the
notice, the person shall pay the amount within three months.
(2) Any person who fails to make the payment in terms of subsection (1) within the
stipulated period, such tax not so pay, shall be deemed to be tax in default and the
person by whom such tax is payable or where any tax is payable by more than one
person, or by a partnership then each of such persons and partners in the partnership
shall be deemed to be a defaulter for the purpose of this Statute.
Power of Assessor
to make
assessments.
Assessor to give
reasons for not
accepting a return
Payment of
turnover tax

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
8A
13. (l) Where any turnover tax is in default, the defaulter shall in addition to such tax in
default, pay as a penalty -
(a) a sum equivalent to ten per centum of the amount in default and
(b) where any amount in default is not paid before the fifteenth day of the month
succeeding the month in which such tax has begun to be in default, a further sum
equivalent to two per centum of the amount in default in respect of each period
ending on the fifteenth day of each succeeding month or part of such period
during which it is in default:
Provided however that the total amount payable as penalty under this Subsection shall
in no case exceed fifty per centum of the tax in default and any such amount may be
waived or reduce if the Commissioner is satisfied that by reason of any special
circumstances in which the default occurred a waiver or reduction of such amount
would be just and equitable.
(2) Where upon the final determination of an appeal under Section 79 any tax in default to
which any sum or sums under subsection: (1) has or have been added is reduced then
such sum or sums shall  be calculated on the tax as so reduced.
14. Where it appears to an Assessor that a person chargeable with turnover tax has for any
quarter paid as tax an amount less than the proper amount of the tax payable by him for
that quarter or chargeable from him for that quarter, the Assessor may, at any time within
two years from that quarter, assess such person at the additional amount at Which,
according to the judgment of Assessor, tax ought to have been paid by such person. The
Assessor shall give such person notice of assessment along with reasons for imposing an
additional assessment.
15. Where an assessment is made under Section 14 in respect of any person for any quarter,
the Assessor shall require the person to pay that amount so assessed within a stipulated
period and the person so assessed shall pay the turnover tax so assessed. If he fails to pay
the amount within the stipulated period the said amount shall be deemed to be turnover
tax in default for that quarter , and accordingly such person shall, from the date on which
such person ought to have paid the tax for that quarter under Section 12 be liable to the
penalty under Subsection (1) of Section 13 in respect of such amount.
CHAPTER IX
FINALITY   OF   ASSESSMENTS  AND   PENALTY   FOR   INCORRECT   RETURNS
16. Where no valid appeal has been lodged within the time specified  in this Statute against an
assessment in respect of the turnover tax or where the amount of such tax is agreed to
under Section 77(5) or has been determined on appeal, that assessment as made or as
agreed to, or as reduced or increased or confirmed, on appeal as the case may be, shall be
final and conclusive for all purpose of this Statute, as regards the amount of such tax:
Provided that nothing in this Statute shall prevent an Assessor  from making an assessment
or additional assessment for any quarter if it does not involve reopening any matter which
has been determined on appeal for that quarter.
Penalty for default
Additional
assessments
made by
Assessor deemed
to be tax in
default
Additional
assessments
Assessment or
amended
assessments to
be final

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
CHAPTER X
SPECIAL CASES, PENALTIES AND OFFENCES
17. Any act or thing required by or under this Statute to be done by any person shall, if such
person is an incapacitated person, be done by the trustee of such incapacitated person.
18. Any act or thing required by or under this Statute to be done by any person shall, in the
case of two or more persons in partnership, be deemed to be required to be done by the
precedent partner of such partnership:
Provided that any person to whom a notice has been given under the provisions of this
Statute as a precedent partner of a partnership shall be deemed to be the precedent
partner thereof unless he proves that he is not a partner of such partnership or some other
person in Sri Lanka is the precedent partner thereof.
19. (1) The Secretary, Manager, Director or other Principal Officer of every company or
body of persons, corporate or unincorporate, shall be liable to do all such acts,
matters or things as are required to be done under the provisions of this Statute by
such company or body of persons:
Provided that any person  to whom a notice has been given under the provisions of
this Statute on behalf of a company or body of persons shall be deemed to be the
principal officer thereof unless he proves that he has no connection with that
company or body of persons or that, some other person resident in Sri Lanka is the
principal officer thereof.
(2) Where an offence under this Statute is committed by a company or a body of
persons, corporate or unincorporate, every person who at the time of the commission
of the offence was a Secretary, Manager, Director or other Principal Officer shall be
liable for the commission of the offence unless he proves that the offence was
committed without his knowledge and that he exercised all such diligence to prevent
the commission of the offence as he ought to have exercised having regard to the
nature of his functions in such capacity and to all the other circumstances.
20. (1) Subject to as hereinafter provided where during the course of a quarter a person
chargeable with turnover tax ceases to carry on any business in respect of which he
is chargeable with such tax, he shall, notwithstanding that, be liable to pay such tax
for  the period during which he carried on that business in that quarter.
(2) Where a person carrying on a business transfers such business to any other person,
any turnover tax payable in respect of such business for any period prior to the
transfer may, if it cannot be recovered from the transferor, be recovered from the
transferee notwithstanding that an assessment may not have been made on the
transferee and the provisions of this Statute as to collection and recovery of turnover
tax shall apply accordingly provided the business continues to be in the hands of
the transferee .
21. (1) Where any person chargeable with turnover tax dies, the executor of such deceased
person shall, in respect of all periods prior to the date of death of such person, be
chargeable with turnover tax which such person would be chargeable if he were
alive, and shall be liable to do all acts, matters and things which such person if he
were alive would be liable to do under this Statute:
Who may act for
incapaciated
person
Precedent partner
to act on behalf
of partnership
Principal Officer
to act on behalf
of a Company or
body of persons
Liability to pay
turnover tax in
the case of
cessation of
business
Liability of
executor to pay
turnover tax

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
10A
Provided that -
(a) no proceedings shall be instituted against the executor in respect of any act
or default of the deceased person;
(b) no assessment or additional assessment in respect of a period prior to the
date of such person’s death shall be made after three years from the end of the
quarter in which the death occurred; and
( c) the liability of the executor under this Section shall be limited to the sum of-
(i) the deceased person’s estate in his possession or control at the  date
when notice is given to him that liability to turnover tax will arise under
this Section; and
(ii) any part of the estate which may have passed to a beneficiary
(2) Where an executor on behalf of the estate of the deceased person carries on business
which is a part of such estate, such executor shall, in respect of such business, be
chargeable with turnover tax with which such person would be chargeable if he were
alive.
22. Where any business in respect of which turnover tax is payable is carried on by any
person on behalf of any other person as the agent of such other person, the first mentioned
person shall be chargeable with turnover tax in respect of that business in like manner and
to the like amount as the latter mentioned person would be chargeable under this Statute.
23. Where two or more persons act in the capacity of trustees of a trust or executors of a
deceased person’s estate, they may be charged jointly and severally with turnover tax
with which they are chargeable under this Statute and shall be jointly and severally liable
for payment of such tax.
24. (1) where a company is wound up and where any turnover tax to which that company is
liable cannot be recovered then, every person who was a director of the company at
any time during the period in respect of which such tax is charged shall be jointly
and severally liable for the payment of such tax unless he proves that the default in
payment of tax cannot be attributed to any gross neglect, or breach of duty on his
part in relation to the affairs of the company, and provisions of this Statute as to
collection and recovery of turnover tax shall apply accordingly.
(2) Where a body of persons is dissolved and where any turnover tax to which such
body of persons is liable cannot be recovered, then every person who was a member
of that body of persons during the period in respect of which that tax is charged
shall be jointly and severally liable for the payment of such tax unless he proves that
default in payment of tax cannot be attributed to any gross neglect, misfeasance or
breach of duty on his part in relation to the affairs of that body, and the provisions
of this Statute as to collection and recovery of turnover tax shall apply accordingly.
(3) Where the Assessor is of the opinion that any transaction or disposition which
reduces, or would have the effect of reducing, the amount of turnover tax payable
by any person is artificial or fictitious or that any transaction or disposition is not in
fact given effect to, he may disregard any such transaction or disposition accordingly.
Liability of certain
persons to pay
turnover tax in
respect of business
not belonging to
them
Joint agents,
turstees and
executors
Persons liable to
pay turnover tax
upon liquidation of
a company or
dissolution of a
body of persons

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
In this Section, “disposition” includes any trust, grant, covenant, agreement, or
arrangement.
25. (1 ) No notice, assessment, certificates or other proceedings in accordance with the
provisions of this Statute shall be quashed, or deemed to be void or voidable, for
want of form, or be affected by reason of a mistake, defect, omission, therein, if the
same is in substance and effect in conformity with, or according to the intent and
meaning of this Statute, and if the person assessed or intended to be assessed or
affected thereby is designated therein according to common intent and
understanding.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of Subsection (1), an assessment shall not be
affected or impugned,
(a) by reason of a mistake therein as to the name or surname of the person
chargeable, the amount of turnover or the amount of turnover tax charged; or
(b ) by reason of any variance between the assessment and the notice thereof;
if the notice of such assessment is duly served on the person intended to be
charged and contains in substance and effect the particulars mentioned in paragraph
(a) of this Subsection.
26. (1) Any officer of the Provincial Public Service dealing with the collection of taxes who
is specially authorized by the Commissioner in that behalf may, accompanied by a
peace officer, do all or any of the following acts:-
(a) enter and search any building or place where he has reason to believe that
any books of account, registers, records or other documents which in his
opinion will be useful for, or relevant to, any proceedings under this Statute
may be found, and examine them if found;
(b) seize any such books of account, registers, records or other documents or
place marks of identification thereon or make extracts or copies therefrom;
( c) make a note or an inventory of any other thing found in the course of any
search under this Section which in his opinion will be useful for, or relevant
to, any proceedings under this Statute, and the provisions of the Code of
Criminal Procedure Act. No. 15 of 1979, relating to searches shall apply so far
as may be to searches under this Section. In this subsection “peace officer”
shall have the same meaning as in the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15
of 1979.
(2) Before authorizing any officer to exercise the power under Subsection (l), the
Commissioner shall record the circumstances which necessitate the exercise of
those powers by that officer.
(3) Where any officer authorized by the Commissioner under Subsection (l) seizes any
book of account, register, record or other document from any person, such officer
shall issue to that person a memorandum specifying the book, register, record or
other document he has seized.
Validity of
Assessments
Power to search
buildings or places

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
12A
(4) Any book of account, register, record or other document seized under Subsection
(1) by any officer may be retained in the possession of such officer as long as may
be necessary for a scrutiny of such book, register, record or other document or for
the institution of legal proceedings against the person to whom such book, register,
record or other document belongs.
(5) The reference in the above sub-sections shall include documents, instruments,
records and all types of data stored and retained in any medium or form, including
but not restricted to electronic, digital, magnetic, compact discs, soft drive and hard
drive.
27. (1) The Commissioner or any other officer of the Provincial Public Service dealing with
the collection of taxes who is specially authorized in that behalf by the Commissioner
in writing may do all or any of the following acts:-
(a) enter and inspect any place or building where any business is carried on by
any person for the purpose of ascertaining whether the provisions of this
Statute are being complied with;
(b) open and examine any receptacle where any book of account, register, record
or other document may be kept and make an inventory of any of the articles
found therein;
(c) examine and take copies of, or make extracts from, any book of account,
register, record or other document found in such place or building;
(d) take possession of any book of account, register, record or other document or
place marks of identification thereon;
( e) count and make a record immediately of the cash found in such place or
building;
(f) require any person whom he finds in such place or building to give such
information as is in his power to give with respect to matters under this
Statute.
(2) Where the Commissioner or an officer authorized by the Commissioner under
Subsection (1) takes, into his possession any book of account, register, record or
other document from any person, such officer shall issue to that person a
memorandum specifying the book, register, record, or document he has taken into
his possession.
(3) Any book of account, register, record or other document taken into his possession
under Subsection (l) by the Commissioner or an officer authorized by him may be
retained in the possession of the Commissioner or such officer as long as may be
necessary for the scrutiny of such book, register, record or document or for the
institution of legal proceedings against the person to whom such book, register,
record or other document belongs.
(4) The reference in the above Sub-sections shall include documents, instruments,
records and all types of data stored and retained in any medium or form including,
but not restricted to electronic, digital, magnetic, compact discs, soft drive and hard
drive.
Power to search
business places

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
28. (1) Every person chargeable with turnover tax shall, in respect of each transaction
entered into by him, in carrying on his business, prepare or cause to be prepared a
voucher setting out:
(a) the date on which such transaction was entered into ;
(b) the nature of such transaction ;
(c) the amount of money received or receivable in respect of such transaction;
and
(d) the name and address of the person with whom such transaction was entered
into.
(2) The original of such voucher shall be issued to the person with whom such
transaction was entered into and the copy of such voucher shall be retained and
preserved by the person by whom or on whose behalf such voucher was prepared
for a period of five years after the expiry of the quarter in which such voucher was
prepared.
(3) Notwithstanding anything in this Section the Commissioner may prescribe the form
and manner in which transactions may be recorded in different businesses.
29. (1) Every person chargeable with turnover tax shall, in respect of transactions entered
into by him in carrying on his business, keep and maintain in respect of each quarter
a register of transactions.
(2) The register of transactions kept by any person in respect of any quarter shall be
retained and preserved by him for a period of five years after the expiry of that
quarter.
30. Every person
(a) who being a person required to take an oath of secrecy under Section 102,
acts under this  Part without taking such oath; or
(b) who acts in contravention of the provisions of Section 102 ; or
(c) who aids, abets or incites any other person to act in contravention of any of
the provisions of this Part;
shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute, and shall be liable, on conviction
after summary trial before a Magistrate, to a fine not exceeding two thousand rupees,
or to imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding six months or to
both such fine and imprisonment.
31. Any person who
(a) gives any false answer whether verbally or in writing to any question or request for
information asked or made in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this
Statute; or
(b) knowingly omits from a return made or furnished under this Part of this Statute any
particulars which he should have included in such return; or
Penal provisions
relating to fraud.
V ouchers to be
prepared and issued
by every person
chargeable with
turnover tax
Register of
transactions.
Breach of secrecy
and other matters
to be offences.
8—PG 2259

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
14A
(c) make any false return or false entry in any return made under this Part of this Statute,
and thereby evades or attempts to evade turnover tax or assists any other person to
evade or attempt to evade such tax;
shall be guilty of an offence under this Statue and shall be liable on conviction after
summary trial before a Magistrate to a fine consisting of-
(i) a sum equal to twice the amount of tax so evaded or attempted to be evaded
for which he, or as the case may be, the other person who assisted is liable
under this Statute for the quarter in respect of or during which the offence was
committed; and
(ii) a sum not exceeding five thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding six months or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
32. Every person who -
(a) fails to comply with the provisions of Section 10 or Section 28 or Section 29; or
(b) fails to comply with the requirement of a notice issued to him under Section 10 or
Section 77 or Section 91; or
(c) having appeared before an officer of the Provincial Department of Revenue in
compliance with a notice issued to him under Section 10 or Section 77 fails without
sufficient cause to answer any question lawfully put to him by such officer; or
(d) knowingly gives any incorrect information relating to any other matter or thing
affecting his own liability to turnover tax or the liability· of any other person; or
(e) willfully obstructs or delays the Commissioner or any other officer in the exercise of
his powers under Section 26 or Section 27; or
(f) aids, abets or incites any other persons to act contrary to the provisions of this
Statute;
shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate
be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees or imprisonment of either description
for a term not exceeding six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
33. The Commissioner may. compound any offence under Section 30, Section 31 or Section 32
and may before judgment stay or compound any proceedings there under.
34. No prosecution in respect of an offence under Section 30, Section 31 or Section 32 shall be
commenced except at the instance, or with the sanction, of the Commissioner.
Penal Provisions
relating to return
etc.
Compounding of
offences
Prosecutions to be
with the sanction of
the Commissioner

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
PART  C
CHAPTER  XI
IMPOSITION OF STAMP DUTY
35. There shall be charged on-
(a) every instrument relating to a transfer of properties such as lands and motor cars
situated in the Northern Province;
(b ) every document presented or filed in proceedings instituted in any court of law
established by law, in the Northern Province of Sri Lanka;
(c ) every transfer of a vehicle such as motor cars effected in the Northern Province;
a stamp duty at the prescribed rate. Different rates may be prescribed in respect of different
classes or categories of instruments.
36. Any instrument comprising or relating to several distinct matters shall be chargeable with
the aggregate amount of stamp duty that would have been chargeable had each of such
matters been dealt with by a separate instrument
CHAPTER  XII
EXEMPTIONS
37. The following instruments and documents shall be exempted from the payment of stamp
duty:-
(1) bail bond in criminal proceedings ;
(2) conveyance or transfer of properties such as lands and motor cars by the Government
or by a person for or on behalf of the Government;
(3)  instruments executed by, or on behalf of, or in favour of, the Government in cases
where, but for this exception, the Government would be liable to pay the duty
chargeable in respect of such instrument;
(4) the following documents filed in legal proceedings ;
(a) all documents filed in Magistrate’s Courts and all documents filed for the
purposes of criminal proceedings in any other court;
(b) documents filed in any court, by public officers suing, or being sued or
intervening, “ virtue officii” in any proceedings in such court;
( c) documents filed in any court, by a person duly admitted to sue, defend or
intervene, as a pauper in any proceedings instituted in such court;
(d) documents filed in any court, by a person applying to be declared as insolvent
by such court;
Instruments with
Duty
Instruments relating
to several district
matters
Exemptions

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
16A
(e) all documents filed in the High Court of the Northern Province for the purpose
of an application for an order in the nature of a writ of habeas corpus;
(f) all documents filed by or on behalf of any person who is certified by the
Administrator of the Legal Aid Scheme approved under the Legal Aid Law,
No. 27 of 1978 or any officer duly authorised by him in that behalf assuing,
defending or intervening with legal aid provided under the said Legal Aid
Law.
(g) all document filed in any court by, or on behalf of any person claiming damages
arising from death or damage caused by a motor vehicle;
(h) Motions filed in any court
(i) warrants issued by any court whether on application or on its own motion;
(5) Will testament or codicil whether notarial or otherwise
CHAPTER  XIII
TIME AND MODE OF STAMPING
38. (1) The stamp duty with which any instrument is chargeable shall be paid before or at
the time of execution of the instrument except as otherwise permitted in this Statute
and such payment shall be indicated on such instrument by means of adhesive
stamps or impressed stamps or a Certificate of Payment referred to in Subsection (2)
hereof.
(2) Stamp duty payable on an instrument relating to a transfer of immovable property
may be paid to a prescribed bank which shall  issue a certificate in the prescribed
form of payment of the amount of stamp duty paid and the date of payment of such
duty and such instrument shall have affixed on it the Certificate of Payment issued
by the Bank, in that behalf. Where such payment cannot be made to a Bank before
the execution or at the time of execution of the instrument due to any reason beyond
the control of the person liable to pay the duty, such duly shall be paid within such
time as shall not exceed seven days from the date of execution of the instrument. An
instrument which has affixed on it the certificate for the payment of stamp duty shall
be deemed to be duly stamped.
(3) Where it is not practicable to use adhesive or impressed stamps to indicate the
payment of the stamp duty with which such instrument is chargeable or to make
payment to a Bank as provided for in subsection (2), the Commissioner may, on
payment to him, of an amount equal to the stamp duty with which such instrument
is chargeable, endorse on the instrument the amount paid and the date of payment
of such duty. An instrument so endorsed shall be deemed to be duly stamped.
39.  (1) Where the payment of stamp duty with which an instrument is chargeable is indicated
by means of an adhesive stamp the person or anyone of the persons executing such
instruments shall cancel the stamp by writing his name across and initialling it in ink
so as not to admit of it being used again.
(2) Where an instrument bears an adhesive stamp of the value of fifty rupees or more
such stamp, shall, in addition to the writing preferred to in subsection (l) be cancelled
by cutting it with a prick, punch, cutter or nipper.
(3) Any instrument bearing an adhesive stamp which has not been cancelled in the
manner set out in subsection (1) or (2) shall be deemed to be unstamped to the extent
of the value of that stamp.
Time and mode of
paying stamp duty
Cancellation of
adhesive stamp

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
CHAPTER  XIV
HOW CERTAIN INSTRUMENTS ARE TO BE STAMPED
40. No second instrument chargeable. with stamp duty shall be written upon a piece of
stamped paper upon which an instrument chargeable with duty has already been written:
Provided that nothing in this Section shall prevent any endorsement which is duly stamped
or is not chargeable with stamp duty being made upon any instrument for the purpose of
transferring any right created or evidenced thereby or of acknowledging the receipt of
money or goods the payment or delivery of which is secured thereby.
41.  (l) Where there are several instruments of conveyance or transfer for effecting an
exchange of property, the instrument first executed shall be stamped with the stamp
duty, if any, with which such exchange is chargeable, and all the other instruments
shall, be stamped with a stamp duty of five rupees;
Provided, however that the preceding provisions of this Section shall not apply to
any such subsequent instrument executed after a period of three months from the
date on which the first instrument was executed.
(2) Where an instrument relates to a transfer of an immovable property or immovable
properties which is or are situated in the Northern Province and in anyone or more
of the provinces of Sri Lanka, such instrument shall be and be deemed to be duly
stamped in respect of the land or lands situated in the Northern Province if stamped
either with the stamp duty chargeable thereon and in the manner provided in this
Statute or with the stamp duty chargeable thereon and in the manner provided in
the Finance Statute of any other Provincial Council of Sri Lanka within whose
jurisdiction such immoveable property or any of the immoveable properties to which
such instrument relates may also be situated.
42. Every document filed in any legal proceedings and chargeable with stamp duty shall be
treated as duly stamped if the proper duty payable on every such document is affixed to
the list of such documents and cancelled in the manner provided for in this Statute.
43. Where any instrument chargeable with stamp duty is executed or acknowledged before a
notary public or fiscal in the execution of his office, the stamp duty chargeable on such
instrument shall be chargeable on the duplicate or counterpart thereof, instead of on the
original instrument and the original instrument shall bear a stamp or stamps to the value
of ten rupees or such stamp duty of ten rupees may be paid to a prescribed bank in the
manner set out in Section 38(2).
CHAPTER  XV
COMPOUNDING OF STAMP DUTY
44. The Commissioner may authorise an officer of a Court of Law created or established by
law and exercising jurisdiction in the Northern Province to compound for the payment of
the stamp duty payable on the document presented or filed in any court in proceedings
instituted in any such court on the following conditions :-
(i) that the officer maintains records of the documents presented or filed in
proceedings instituted in such court;
Only one
instrument to be on
a piece of  stamped
paper.
How instruments
effecting exchange
are to be stamped
Documents in Legal
proceedings.
Stamping of
duplicate of certain
instruments.
Compounding of
stamp duty payable

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
18A
(ii) that such officer remits to the Commissioner at the end of such periods as may
be specified by the Commissioner the aggregate stamp duty payable as the
case may be, on-
(a) the documents presented or filed in civil or admiralty proceedings
instituted in the Court, to which such officer is appointed; or
(b) instruments issued by such other person, during the period.
(2) Where the payment of the stamp duty payable on a document presented or filed in
civil or admiralty proceedings instituted in any Court, created or established by law
and exercising jurisdiction in the Northern Province, has been compounded in
accordance with this Section, the officer of such Court, authorised under subsection
(1 ) shall endorse on such document, the amount of stamp duty payable on such
document and that the payment of such stamp duty has been compounded in
accordance with this section and thereafter such document shall be deemed to be
duly stamped.
(3) Notwithstanding that the payment of stamp duty with which an instrument or
document is chargeable has been compounded as aforesaid, the Commissioner may
adjudicate on the proper duty payable in respect of such document.
CHAPTER  XVI
SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO DOCUMENTS FILED IN LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
45. (1)  For the purpose of determining the stamp duty payable on documents presented
or filed in-
(a) any proceedings instituted in a Court created or established by law; or
(b) any admiralty proceedings instituted in the High Court
exercising jurisdiction in the Northern Province, the value of such proceedings shall
unless otherwise provided in this Statute or any other Statute,
(i) be the amount of the debt, demand or damages claimed In the proceedings.
(ii) where the proceedings relate to the right, title or interest in land, be the
value of such land;
(iii) be the net value of the es tate in the case of applications for probate or letters
of administration in respect of the estate of a deceased person;
(iv) in any other case be rupees Five Thousand
(2) The total stamp duty chargeable in respect of the documents filed in any Proceedings
in any court shall not exceed the aggregate of the stamp duty chargeable on the first
ten documents filed, by each party to the proceedings.
CHAPTER  XVII
VALUATION FOR STAMP DUTY
46. (1) There any property is conveyed by an instrument, the stamp duty with which such
instrument is chargeable shall be calculated on the value of the property conveyed.
Value of suits
Valuation for stamp
duty.·

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
(2) Where any property transferred for a consideration is subject to any mortgage,
encumbrances or reservation of interest, stamp duty with which the instrument of
transfer is chargeable shall be calculated on the value of the property transferred,
without any deduction for the mortgage, encumbrances or reservation.
(3) Where any property is gifted subject to any reservation in favour of the donor or
any other person, stamp duty with which the instrument of gift is chargeable shall
be calculated on the value of the property gifted as if that property had been gifted
to the donee without that reservation.
47. Where any instrument is chargeable with stamp duty in respect of any money expressed
in any currency other than that of Sri Lanka, such duty shall be calculated on the value of
such money in the currency of Sri Lanka according to the current rate of exchange on the
day of the instrument.
48. Where any immovable property, or any part thereof, is conveyed or transferred to the
same person in lots by several instruments, and it appears to the Assessor that several
instruments were executed with the intention of avoiding the stamp duty which would be
chargeable had the total area conveyed or transferred by such instruments been conveyed
or transferred by a single instrument, he may call upon the parties to such instruments to
prove to his satisfaction that such instruments were not executed with such intention and
if no such proof is furnished or the proof furnished is inadequate, each such instrument
shall be charged with stamp duty in proportion, to the value of the property conveyed by
the instrument of such an amount as would make the aggregate stamp duty chargeable on
all such instruments equal to one and half times the stamp duty that would have been
chargeable had a single instrument been executed to convey and transfer the total area
transferred by such instruments.
CHAPTER  XVIII
PERSONS LIABLE TO PAY STAMP DUTY
49. Except where there is an agreement to the contrary stamp duty shall be payable,
(a) in the case of an instrument of transfer by the grantee :
(b) in the case of any other instrument by the person drawing, making or executing
the instrument.
50. (1)  If any instrument chargeable with stamp duty, is executed in the Province or is in
respect of immovable property situated in the Province and is not duly stamped,
then, every person executing such instrument shall be liable to pay to the
Commissioner the amount of such duty and any penalty attached to the non-
payment of such duty.
(2) When the stamp duty and penalty, if any, payable in respect of any instrument have
been recovered by the Commissioner under subsection (1) from any person other
than the person, who by agreement or otherwise or under Section 49 was liable to
pay stamp duty on such instrument, such first-mentioned person shall be entitled
to recover from such second- mentioned person the amount of the duty and penalty,
if any, so recovered.
(3) The provisions of subsections (1) and (2) of this Section shall have effect
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 49.
Stamp duty in
currency of Sri
Lanka
Duty by whom
Payable.
Drawing several
instruments to
avoid duty
Liability of other
parties for stamp
duty

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
20A
(4) An executor of the estate of a deceased person shall be liable to do all such acts,
matters and things as such deceased person would be liable to do under this Statute
if he were alive and shall be chargeable with stamp duty with which such deceased
person would have been chargeable, if he were alive, in respect of all instruments to
which such deceased person was a party:
Provided that
(i) no proceedings shall be instituted against the executor In respect of any act
or default of the deceased person.
(ii) the liability of an executor under this subsection shall be limited to the sum
of-
(a) the deceased person’s estate in his possession or control at the date
when notice is given to him that liability to stamp duty will arise under
this ‘subsection; and
(b) any part of the estate which may have passed to a beneficiary.
51.  (1) Where any private company is wound up and any amount, which that company is
liable to pay as stamp duty, whether such liability arose before, or in the course of,
or after, its liquidation, cannot be recovered, then every person who was a director
of the company at any time during the period in which the liability of the company to
pay such duty arose shall be jointly and severally liable for the payment of such
amount, unless he proves that the default in payment of the amount cannot be
attributed to any gross neglect, misfeasance or breach of duty on his part in relation
to the affairs of the company.
(2) In this Section, the expression “private company” means a Company which by its
articles prohibits invitations to the public to  subscribe for shares and restricts the
number of shareholders to fifty not including past or present employees of the
company.
CHAPTER  XIX
 IMPOUNDING OF INSTRUMENTS
52.  (1) Every person having by law or consent of parties, authority to receive evidence,
and every officer in a public office (other than a police officer) and every officer of
a public corporation or bank, or approved credit agency before whom any instrument,
chargeable in his opinion with stamp duty is produced or comes in the performance
of his functions, shall if it appears to him that such instrument is not duly stamped,
impound such instrument:
 Provided that, nothing in this Section shall be deemed to require any Magistrate or
Judge of a criminal court to impound or examine if he does not think fit to do so, any
instrument coming before him in the course of any proceedings in that court.
(2) The Commissioner may require any officer in a public office or corporation or bank,
or approved credit agency before whom any instrument, chargeable with duty is
produced or comes in the performance of his functions:
Liability when
company is wound
up
Power of certain
officers to
impounded and
examine
instruments

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
(a) to examine such instrument in order to ascertain whether it  is duly
stamped;
(b) to impound such instrument
(3) Where any person is required under subsection (2) to examine or impound any
instrument, it shall be the duty of such person to impound or examine such
instrument, as the case may be, and take such further steps as may be required by
the Commissioner.
(4) The Commissioner or any officer authorised in writing by him may, after giving due
notice to any person in charge of a public office, corporation or bank, or approved
credit agency, examine any instrument in such office, corporation or bank or agency,
in order to ascertain whether such instrument is duly stamped and shall impound
such instrument if it is not so stamped.
53. (l) Where any person who has, by law or consent of parties, authority to receive
evidence or the Registrar - General admits in evidence, or acts upon, any instrument
in accordance with the provisions of the proviso to Section 58, he shall send the
Commissioner an authenticated copy of such instrument, supplied at the expense
of the person tendering it, together with a certificate in \writing stating the amount
of the stamp duty and penalty levied in respect thereof, and shall send such amount
to the Commissioner.
(2) In every other case the person so impounding an instrument shall send it in the
original to the Commissioner.
54. If any instrument chargeable with stamp duty and not duly stamped, not being an instrument
chargeable with stamp duty not exceeding Rupees Twenty, is produced by any person of
his own motion before an Assessor within one year from the date of its execution and
such person brings to the notice of the Assessor the fact that such instrument is not duly
stamped and offer to pay to the Assessor the amount of the proper duty or the amount
required to make up the same and the Assessor is satisfied that the omission to stamp
such instrument has been occasioned by accident, mistake or urgent necessity, he may
instead of impounding the instrument receive such amount and shall by endorsement
thereon state that the proper amount of stamp duty with which such instrument is
chargeable has been paid.
55. (1) Where the Commissioner impounds any instrument under Section 52 or receives
any instrument under Section 53(2) not being an instrument chargeable with a duty
not exceeding rupees twenty, he shall refer it to an Assessor who shall adopt the
following procedure in respect thereof:
(a) if he is of opinion that such instrument is duly stamped or is not chargeable
with stamp duty he shall certify by endorsement thereon that it is duly stamped,
or that it is not so chargeable, as the case may be;
(b ) if he is of opinion that such instrument is chargeable with stamp duty and is
not duly stamped, he shall, by notice in writing, require the person liable to
pay the stamp duty to pay the proper duty or the amount required to make up
same, together with a penalty not exceeding three times the amount of the
proper duty.
Impounded
instruments to be
transmitted to the
Commissioner
Instruments not
duly stamped by
accident produced
voluntarily
The Commissioner
deals with
impounded
instruments

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
22A
(2) Where the proper amount of stamp duty has been paid on any such instrument and
it has been impounded on account of any irregularity in the mode of execution of
such instrument or because it has not been stamped at the time as required by law,
the Assessor, if he is satisfied that the irregularity was due to accident, mistake or
urgent necessity, may, on payment of penalty not exceeding five thousand rupees,
certify by endorsement thereon that the instrument has been duly stamped, and
every instrument so endorsed shall be deemed to have. been duly stamped from the
date of its execution.
56.  (1) Where the stamp duty and penalty, if any, required to be paid in respect of any
instrument under Section 54 or by a notice under Section 55(1)(b) or under Section
58 have been paid or recovered, the Assessor or the person admitting such instrument
in evidence or acting upon such instrument shall certify by endorsement thereon:
(i) that the proper stamp duty and penalty have been paid in respect of the
instrument; and
(ii) the name and address of the person paying them ; and
(iii) the date of payments ;
Such certificate shall be conclusive evidence of the matters stated therein
for the purposes of this Statute.
(2) Every instrument endorsed in accordance with subsection (1) shall be deemed to be
duly stamped and shall be admissible in evidence, and be registered and acted
upon, and authenticated as if it is so stamped, and shall be returned on his
application, to the person from whose possession it came into the hands of the
officer impounding it.
57. (1) If any instrument sent to the Commissioner under Section 53 is lost, destroyed or
damaged during transmission the person sending the same shall not be liable for
such loss, destruction, or damage.
(2) When any instrument is about to be sent, the person from whose possession it
came into the hands of the person impounding the same may require a copy thereof
to be made at the expense of such first-mentioned person and authenticated by the
person impounding such instrument.
CHAPTER  XX
ADMISSIBILITY OF INSTRUMENTS
58. No instrument chargeable with stamp duty shall be received or admitted in evidence by
any person having by law or consent of parties authority to receive evidence or registered
or authenticated or acted upon by any person or by any officer in a public office or
corporation or bank or approved credit agency unless such instrument is duly stamped:
Provided that any such instruments may -
(a) be admitted in evidence by any person having by law or consent of parties,
authority to receive evidence; or
(b ) if the stamp duty chargeable on such instrument is five thousand rupees or less, be
acted upon by the Registrar General, or any Deputy Registrar General or any Assistant
Registrar General authorised by the Registrar General in that behalf:
Endorsement of
instrument on which
duty has been paid
Non-liability for
loss of instruments
send
Admissibility of
Instruments

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
upon payment of the proper duty with which it is chargeable or the amount required
to make up the same and a penalty not exceeding three times the proper duty.
59. Where any person who is required to give a stamped receipt has given an unstamped
receipt and such receipt if stamped would be admissible in evidence against him, then
such receipt shall, notwithstanding anything in Section 58, be admitted in evidence against
him on payment of a penalty of five hundred rupees, by the person tendering it.
CHAPTER  XXI
ADJUDICATION   OF STAMP DUTY
60. Where any instrument whether executed or not and whether previously stamped or not, is
brought to an Assessor together with a copy thereof and the person bringing it applies to
have the opinion of the Assessor as to the stamp duty, if any, with which it is chargeable,
and pays a fee of two hundred and fifty rupees or any amount prescribed by rules the
Assessor shall determine the stamp duty, if any with which in his opinion the instrument
is chargeable and shall notify his determination to such person in writing.
61. For the purpose of giving his Opinion under Section 60 the Assessor may require the
person bringing the instrument to produce any such document or other evidence as is
necessary to prove the facts relating to the chargeability of the instrument with stamp
duty or the amount of the stamp duty with which it is chargeable:
Provided that, every person by whom any such evidence is furnished shall, on payment
of the full stamp duty with which the instrument to which it relates is chargeable, be
relieved from any penalty which he may have incurred under this Statute, otherwise than
by reason of his omitting to state truly in such instrument any of the facts or circumstances
aforesaid.
62.  (l) The Assessor shall certify by endorsement on any instrument brought to him under
Section 60 that any stamp duty with which such instrument is chargeable has been
paid or that such instrument is not chargeable with stamp duty.
(2) Any instrument upon which an endorsement has been made under this Section
shall be deemed to be duly stamped or not chargeable with stamp duty, .as the case
may be, and if chargeable with stamp duty shall be receivable in evidence or otherwise
and may be acted upon and registered as it had been originally duly stamped;
Provided that nothing in this Section shall authorise the Assessor to endorse-
(a) any instrument executed or first executed in Sri Lanka and brought to him
after the expiration of one month from the date of its execution or first
execution, as the case may be ; or
(b) any instrument executed or first executed out of Sri Lanka and brought to him
after the expiration of one month after it has been first received in Sri Lanka.
Admissibility of
receipt in certain
cases
Adjudication as to
proper stamp duty
Chargeability of
stamp duty
Endorsement by
Assessor

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
24A
CHAPTER  XXII
ALLOWANCES FOR STAMP
63.  (l) The Commissioner may on a written application made to him within the period
specified in Subsection (2) and upon being satisfied as to the facts make an allowance
for unused or spoiled stamps in the following instances:
(a) Where stamp has been inadvertently or undesignedly spoiled and rendered
unfit for the purpose for which it was intended to be used;
(b) Where a stamp has been affixed to an instrument which is incomplete or which
is not executed or is void or has by reason of a mistake been found unfit for
the purpose intended; or
(c) Where a stamp of the wrong description or value has been inadvertently or
undesignedly affixed to an instrument subsequently replaced by a duly stamped
instrument.
(2) The application for an allowance under Subsection (l) shall be made within one year
of the date of purchase of the unused or spoiled stamp.
(3) The Commissioner may on an application for an allowance under sub section (1)
either give to the applicant other stamps of the same description and value or the
value of the stamps in money, and where he does the latter he shall deduct five cent
for each rupee or fraction of a rupee.
(4) For the purpose of this Section “stamp” shall include an adhesive stamp, an
impressed stamp or a certificate of payment of stamp duty issued under Section
38(2).
CHAPTER  XXIII
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
64. (1) Any person -
(a) who executes, otherwise than as a witness, any instrument chargeable with
duty without the same being duly stamped: or
(c) who fails to cancel an adhesive stamp in the manner prescribed by Section 39;
shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute and shall be liable on conviction
after summary trial before a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding five thousand
rupees.
 (2) Any person who without lawful authority makes or produces, or assists, in any
manner whatsoever, in the making or producing, of any stamp or die or has in his
possession any such dies or any stamp so made or produced shall be guilty of an
offence and be liable on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate to a fine
not exceeding five thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either description for a
term not exceeding six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
Allowance for
unused and spoiled
stamps

<!-- page 25 -->

25AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
(3) For the purpose of this Section “stamp” shall include an adhesive stamp, an
impressed stamp or a certificate of payment of stamp duty referred to in Section
38(2).
65. Any notary public who knowingly fails to comply with any requirement imposed on him
by Section 76 shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute and shall be liable on
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding the stamp duty
payable on the instrument in respect of which the offence is committed and five thousand
rupees, or to imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding six months or to
both such fine and imprisonment.
66. Any person –
(a) with intent to defraud the Council draws, attests or executes any instrument in
which all the facts and the circumstances required by Section 76 to be set out in
such instrument are not fully set out; or
(b) having received any sum of any money for payment of stamp duty on any instrument
executed, authenticated or attested by him, does not apply the, money to the
payment of the stamp duty and improperly withholds or detains the same or any
part thereof; or
(c) in executing, authenticating or attesting any instrument, affixes or causes to be
cancelled any stamp which is not genuine or has been previously used; or
(d) does any other act calculated to deprive the Council of any duty or penalty under
this Statute; or
(e) fails to comply with any requirement imposed on him by the Commissioner under
Section 52(2); or
(f) resists or obstructs the Commissioner in the exercise by the Commissioner, of the
power conferred on him by Section 52(4),
shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute and shall be liable on conviction
after summary trial before a Magistrate,
(i) in the case of an offence under Subsection (b) to a fine consisting of a sum
equal to the amount of the stamp duty withheld or detained by such person
and an amount not exceeding five thousand rupees;
(ii) in the case of an offence under Subsection (c) to a fine consisting of a sum
equal to three times the amount of the stamp affixed or cancelled by such
person and an amount not exceeding five thousand rupees;
(iii) in the case of an offence under Subsection (a) or (d) or (e) or (f), to a fine
not exceeding five thousand rupees;
or in every case, to imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding
six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
For the purposes of this Section ‘stamp’ shall include an adhesive stamp, an
impressed stamp or a certificate of payment of stamp duty referred to in
Section 38(2).
Notary Public
failing to act in
accordance with
provisions of this
Statute
Penalty for
defrauding Council

<!-- page 26 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
26A
67. Any person who fails to comply with the requirements of a notice given to him under
Section 71(8) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable to after summary trial before
a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees.
68. The institution of a prosecution against any person in respect of an offence under this
Part of the Statute or the imposition of a penalty, fine or term imprisonment on any person
in respect of any such offence shall not relieve such person from any liability to the
payment of any stamp duty or penalty which he has incurred or may incur under the
Statute.
69. No prosecution in respect of any offence under the Statute shall be instituted without
the sanction of the Commissioner.
70. The Commissioner may, having regard to the circumstances in which the offence was
committed, compound any offence under the Statute and may, before judgment, stay or
compound any proceeding thereunder.
CHAPTER  XXIV
71.  (1) Every notice to be given by the Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner or an Assessor
under this Statute shall bear the name of the Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner
or Assessor, as the case may be, and every such notice shall be valid if the name of
the Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner or Assessor is duly printed or signed
thereon.
(2) Every notice given by virtue of this Statute may be served on a person either
personally or by being delivered at, or sent by post to, his last known place of abode
or any place at which he is or was carrying on business.
(3) Any notice sent by post shall be deemed to have been served on the day succeeding
the day on which it would have been received in the ordinary course by post.
(4) In proving service by post it shall be sufficient to prove the letter containing the
notice was duly addressed and posted.
(5) Every name printed or signed on any notice or signed on any certificate, given or
issued for the purpose of this Statute which purports to be the name of the person
authorised to give or issue the same shall be judicially noticed.
(6) No notice, assessment certificate or other proceeding purporting to be in accordance
with the provisions of this Statute shall be quashed, or deemed to be void, or
voidable, for want of form, or be affected by reason of a mistake, defect or omission
therein, if the same is in substance and effect in conformity with, or according to, the
intent and meaning of this Statute, and if the person to whom such notice or certificate
is given or intended to be given or affected thereby is designated therein according
to common intent and understanding.
(7) Without prejudice to the generality of Subsection (6) a notice or assessment shall
not be impeached or affected by reason or mistake therein as to the name or surname
of the person chargeable with the amount, if the notice is duly served on the person
intended to be charged.
Requirement to act
under notice
Amount of stamp
duty or penalty to
be payable
notwithstanding any
proceeding for
penalities etc.
Institution of
prosecution
Power of the
Commissioner to
compound offences
Signature and
service and validity
of notice

<!-- page 27 -->

27AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
(8) (a) The Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner or an Assessor may for the purpose
of  this Statute give notice in writing to any person requiring him to -
(i) produce, or transmit to him for examination, within the period specified
in such· notice, any such document or instrument as may be specified
in such notice;
(ii) furnish any such information as may be specified in such notice;
(iii) attend in person, or by authorizing a representative at such place and
such date and such time as may be specified in such notice, so that he’
may be examined on any such matter as may be specified in such notice.
(b) Where notice has been given to a person under Subsection (8)(a) requiring
him to furnish any information, such person shall comply with such
requirements notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other statute
prohibiting the furnishing of such information
(c ) Any person who attends in compliance with a notice given under Subsection
(8)(a) may be allowed by the Commissioner  such expenses as are reasonably
incurred by him in so attending.
(9) Any person who fails to comply with the requirements of a notice given to him
under the above subsections shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable to
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding five
thousand rupees.
72. Where any discretion is conferred on the Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner or an
Assessor as to the amount of any penalty to be imposed on any person under this Statute
such discretion shall be exercised by the Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner or Assessor,
as the case may be, after having regard to all the circumstances in which that penalty was
incurred.
73. (1) When any stamp duty or penalty has been paid by any person in respect of an
instrument and, by agreement or under the provisions of this Statute or any other
enactment, some other person was liable to pay stamp duty in respect of such
instrument, the first-mentioned person shall be entitled to recover from such other
person the amount of the duty or penalty so paid.
(2) For the purposes of such recovery, a certificate under the hand of the Commissioner,
to the effect that stamp duty has been paid in respect of the instrument by the
person specified in the certificate shall be conclusive evidence of the matters
specified therein.
74. The Minister may, by Order published in the Gazette, require that stamps, of the description
specified in the Order be used for the stamping of the instruments specified in the Order
and it shall not be lawful for any person to use stamps other than the stamps of that
description for the payment of duty on such instruments.
75. (l) The Minister may make regulations in respect of all or any of the following
matters:
(a) any matter which is required or authorised by this Statute to be prescribed;
Power to call for
information
Exercise of
discretion regard to
penalties
Persons paying
duty or penalty may
recover same in
certain instances
Orders
Regulations

<!-- page 28 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
28A
(b)  the instruments in respect of which stamp duty may be payable by means
of impressed stamps.
(2) Every regulation made under this Section shall come in to operation on the date of
its publication in the Gazette or on such later date as may be specified in the regulation.
(3) Every regulation made under this Section shall, as soon as convenient after its
publication in the Gazette be brought before the Council for approval. Any such
regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded from the date
of disapproval but without prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.
Notification of the date on which a regulation is deemed to be rescinded shall be
published in the Gazette.
76. (1) Every person drawing, making executing or attesting any instrument chargeable
with stamp duty shall set out therein, the full names and addresses of the parties of
such instrument, the consideration, the date and manner of payment and all other
facts and circumstances affecting the chargeability of such instrument of stamp
duty and the amount of stamp duty with which it is chargeable.
(2) Every notary public who attests an instrument of conveyance shall before doing so
take all reasonable steps to satisfy himself that the value on which the stamp duty is
paid represents the value of the property conveyed.
(3) Every notary public who attests any instrument for which adhesive stamps are used
shall affix stamps of the correct description and value to such instrument and cause
them to be cancelled in the manner directed by this Statute and state in his attestation,
the number and value of the stamps affixed to such instruments.
(4) When stamp duty is paid on an instrument in the manner set out in Section 38(2) or
38(3), the Notary Public who attests such instrument shall certify in his attestation
that the certificate of payment issued by the bank under Section 38(2) has been duly
affixed to the duplicate of such instrument or that such instrument has been endorsed
by the Commissioner in the manner set out in Section 38(3).
PART   D
CHAPTER  XXV
APPEALS
77. (1) Any person may if he is aggrieved with any assessment or additional assessment
made in respect of him by an Assessor under Part B of this Statute, or a penalty
imposed on him under Part C of this Statute or an opinion given under Section 58 or
requirement given under Section 55(l)(b ),appeal against such assessment or
additional assessment or penalty or opinion or requirement, as the case may be,· to
the Commissioner within thirty days after the service of notice of such assessment
or additional assessment, imposition of penalty, opinion or requirement. Such person
shall, notwithstanding the appeal, pay the turnover tax or stamp duty charged or
levied by such assessment or additional assessment or opinion or requirement
together with any penalty imposed on him by this Statute, unless the Commissioner
orders that the payment of the turnover tax or stamp duty or any part thereof be held
over pending the determination of such appeal. Upon the making of such order, the
amount of turnover tax or stamp duty or part there of held over, shall not be deemed
to be in default:
Conditions affecting
instruments of
conveyance.
Appeals to the
Commissioner

<!-- page 29 -->

29AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
Provided that the Commissioner, upon being satisfied that owing to absence from
Sri Lanka, sickness or other reasonable cause,  the appellant was prevented from
appealing within such period shall grant an extension of time for preferring the
appeal.
(2) Every appeal shall be preferred by a petition in writing addressed to the
Commissioner and shall state precisely the ground of such appeal.
(3) Where the assessment or additional assessment appealed against has been made in
the absence of a return, the petition of appeal shall be sent together with a return
duly made.
(4) Every petition of appeal which does not conform to the provisions of Subsections
(1), (2) and (3) shall not be valid.
(5) On receipt of a valid petition of appeal, the Commissioner may cause further inquiry
to be made by an Assessors and if in the course of such inquiry an agreement is
reached as to the matters specified in the petition of appeal the necessary adjustment
of the assessment shall be made or the amount specified in the opinion or notice
shall be amended accordingly.
(6) Where no agreement is reached between the applicant and the Assessor in the
manner provided in Subsection (5) the Commissioner shall fix a time and place for
the hearing of the appeal.
(7) Every appellant shall attend before the Commissioner at the time and place fixed for
the hearing of the appeal. The appellant may attend the hearing of the appeal in
person or by an authorized representative. The Commissioner may, if he thinks fit
from time to . time adjourn the hearing of an appeal for such time and place as he
may fix for the purpose. In any case in which an authorized representative attends
on behalf of the appellant, the ‘,Commissioner may adjourn the hearing of the
appeal and :may, if he considers that the personal attendance of the appellant is
necessary for the determination of the appeal, require that the appellant shall attend
in person at the time and place fixed for the adjourned hearing of the appeal, and if
the appellant or his authorized representative fails to attend at the time and place
fixed for the hearing or any adjourned hearing of the appeal or if the appellant fails
to attend’ in person when required so to attend by the Commissioner, the
Commissioner may dismiss the appeal:
Provided that, if the appellant shall within a reasonable time after the dismissal of an
appeal satisfy the Commissioner that he was prevented from due attendance at the
hearing or at any adjourned hearing of such appeal by reason of absence from Sri
Lanka, sickness, or other unavoidable cause, the Commissioner may vacate the
order of dismissal and fix a time and place for the hearing of the appeal.
(8) The Commissioner shall have power to summon any person whom he may consider
able to give evidence respecting the appeal to attend before him and may examine
such person on oath or otherwise. Any person so attending may be allowed by the
Commissioner any reasonable expenses necessarily incurred by such person in so
attending.
(9) Before making his determination on any appeal, the Commissioner may, if he considers
it necessary so to do, by notice given in writing to any person require that person
9—PG 2259

<!-- page 30 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
30A
to produce for examination, or to transmit to the Commissioner within the period
specified in such notice, any such deeds, plans, instruments, books, accounts, lists,
stock lists, registers, cheques , pay-in-slips auditor’s reports or valuer’s reports or
electronic records or other documents in his possession as may be specified in such
notice.
(l0) Where the Commissioner hears the evidence of the appellant or of any other person
in respect of the appeal, he shall maintain or cause to be maintained a record of such
evidence.
(11) In determining an appeal under this Section the Commissioner may confirm, or
amend the opinion appealed against or confirm, reduce, increase or annul the
assessment or notice appealed against and shall give notice in writing to the appellant
of his determination on the appeal. The Commissioner shall adduce, in writing,
reasons for his determination.
(12) Where upon the final determination of an appeal or upon an order made by the
Commissioner, any turnover tax or stamp duty which has been held over under
subsection (l) becomes payable or the turnover tax charged by the original assessment
or stamp duty is increased, the Commissioner shall give to the appellant a notice in
writing fixing a date on or before which any such turnover tax or stamp duty or
balance thereof shall be paid. Any turnover tax or stamp duty not so. paid shall be
deemed to be in default.
(13) Where there is an appeal against an assessment or opinion or requirement and
where the payment of any turnover tax or stamp duty specified in the notice of
assessment is held over under Subsection (1). the Commissioner may, if the appellant
agrees during the course of inquiry into’ or hearing of that appeal, that a certain sum
is due or is likely to be due as turnover tax or stamp duty in respect of that assessment,
or requirement by notice in writing given to the appellant, direct him to pay such
sum on or before the date specified in the notice. Any sum not so paid shall be
deemed to be in default.
CHAPTER  XXVI
APPEALS TO BOARD OF REVIEW
78. (l) For the purpose of hearing appeals in the manner hereinafter provided there shall be
a Board of Review (hereinafter referred to as “the Board) consisting of five members
who shall be appointed by the Minister. Every member of the Board so appointed
shall hold office for a term not exceeding three years but shall be eligible for
reappointment. A member shall be appointed as Chairman by the Minister.
(2) There shall be a Secretary to the Board who shall be appointed by the Minister.
(3) Any three members of the Board nominated by the Chairman may hear any
appeal.
(4) At the request of the Commissioner, the Secretary to the Board may summon a
meeting of the Board.
(5) The remuneration of the members of the Board, and the Secretary. shall be fixed
by the Minister.
Constitution of the
Board of Review

<!-- page 31 -->

31AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
79. (1)  Any person aggrieved by the determination of the  Commissioner upon any appeal
made to him under Section 77 may prefer a petition in writing to the Board of Review
within thirty days from the receipt of the determination from the Commissioner.
(2) Every such pettion shall -
(a) be accompanied by a copy of the Commissioner’s determination against which
the appeal is made;
(b) set out precisely the ground of appeal therefrom ; and ;
(c) be delivered to the secretary to the board.
80. The Commissioner shall refer any valid appeal made to him to the Board of Review and the
Board shall hear and determine such appeal and accordingly the provisions of Section 81
shall apply to the hearing and determination of any appeal, so referred.
81. (1) As soon as may be after. the receipt of a petition of appeal, the Secretary to the
Board shall fix a date and time and place for the hearing of the appeal, and shall give
fourteen day’s notice thereof both to the appellant and to the Commissioner.
(2) The Commissioner shall on receipt of a notice under Subsection (1), transmit to the
Board a copy of the record of evidence maintained under Section 77(10).
(3) Every appellant shall attend in person or by, an authorized representative at the
hearing of an appeal. The Board may postpone the hearing for such time as it thinks
necessary to enable the attendance in person, of the appellant.
(4) The Assessor who made the assessment or gave the opinion or imposed the
requirement appealed against or some other person authorized by the Commissioner
shall attend the meeting of the Board at which such appeal is heard in support of the
assessment as determined by the Commissioner.
(5) The onus of proving that the assessment, Opinion or requirement confirmed by the
Commissioner on appeal, or as referred by him under Section 80, as the case may be,
is excessive or erroneous, shall be on the appellant.
(6) All appeals shall be heard in camera
(7) The Board shall have power to summon to attend at the hearing any person whom
it may consider able to give evidence respecting the appeal and may examine him as
a witness, either on oath or otherwise. Any person so attending may be allowed by
the Board any reasonable expenses necessarily incurred by him in so attending.
(8) Except with the consent of the Board and on such terms as the Board may determine,
the appellant shall not, at the hearing by the Board, be allowed to produce any
document which was not produced before the Commissioner or to adduce the
evidence of any witness whose evidence was not led before the Commissioner or
whose evidence has already been recorded at the hearing before the Commissioner.
(9) At the hearing of the appeal the Board may, subject to the provisions of subsection
(8), admit or reject any evidence adduced whether oral or documentary, and the
provisions of the Evidence Ordinance relating to the admissibility of evidence shall
not apply.
(10) After hearing the appeal, the Board shall confirm, reduce, increase or annul the
assessment as determined by the Commissioner on appeal or as referred by him
Appeals to Board of
Review
Commissioner may
refer appeals to the
Board of Review
Hearing of appeal
by Board of Review

<!-- page 32 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
32A
under Section 80 as the case may be or may remit the case to the Commissioner with
the opinion of the Board thereon. Where a case is so remitted by the Board, the
Commissioner shall revise the assessment as the opinion of the Board may require.
The decision of the Board shall be notified to the appellant .and the Commissioner
in writing.
(11) Where under subsection (10), the Board does not reduce or annul such assessment,
the Board may order the appellant to pay costs of the Board, a sum not exceeding
five hundred rupees which shall be added to the tax charged by the assessment and
recovered therewith.
CHAPTER  XXVII
APPEALS TO THE HIGH COURT OF THE PROVINCE
82.  (1) The decision of the Board shall be final :
Provided that either the appellant or the Commissioner may make an application
requiring the Board to state a case on a question of law for the opinion of the High
Court of the Northern Province exercising appellate jurisdiction. Such application
shall not be entertained unless it is made in writing and delivered to the Secretary to
the Board, together with a fee of two hundred and fifty rupees, in the case of the
appellant, within one month of the date on which the decision of the Board was
notified in writing, to the Commissioner or the appellant, as the case may be.
(2) The case stated by the Board shall set out the facts, the decision of the Board and
the amount of the tax in dispute where such amount exceeds five thousand rupees,
and the party requiring the Board to state such case shall transmit the case, when
stated and signed, to the High Court, within fourteen days after receiving the same.
(3) For the purposes of application of the provisions of the Stamp Duty Act. No. 43
of 1982:
(a) all proceedings before the High Court on any case stated under this Section
or incidental to the hearing, determination or disposal of any such case, shall
be deemed to be civil proceedings before the High Court of the value of five
thousand rupees, or of such amount as is set out by the Board in the stated
case as the amount of the tax in dispute;
(b) Every such case stated shall together with all books, documents and papers
annexed thereto by the Board, be deemed to be a single exhibit in civil
proceedings before the High Court;
(c) The Commissioner, if he is the, appellant shall be deemed to be a Government
officer suing, or if he is the respondent to the appeal, a Government officer
being sued, in a suit virtue officii.
(4) At or before the time when he transmits the stated case to the High Court the party
requiring it shall send to the other party notice in writing informing him that a case
has been stated on his application and’ shall supply him with a copy of the stated
case.
(5) Any judge of the High Court may cause stated case to be sent back to the Board for
amendment, and the Board shall amend the case accordingly.
Appeal on a
question of law to
the High Court

<!-- page 33 -->

33AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
(6) Anyone or more Judges of the High Court may hear and determine any question of
law arising on the stated case and may in accordance with the decision of the court
upon such  question, confirm or amend, the opinion appealed against or confirm,
reduce, increase, or annul the assessment or notice determined by the Board, or
may remit the case to the Board, with the opinion of the Court thereon. Where a case
is so remitted by the Court the Board shall revise the assessment in accordance with
the opinion of the Court.
(7) In any proceedings before the High Court under this Section, the Court may make
such order in regard to costs in the High Court and in regard to the sum paid under
subsection (1), as the Court may deem fit.
(8) For the purposes of enabling the Commissioner or any other party to appeal to the
Supreme Court against any order of the High Court under subsection (6) and for the
purpose of the application of the provisions of any written law relating to appeals
to the Supreme Court from the decision of the High Court:
(a) an order by the High Court under Subsection (6), shall, together with any
order of that Court under Subsection (7), be deemed to be a final judgment of
the High Court in a civil action between the Commissioner and such other
party;
(b) the value of the matter in dispute in such civil action shall be deemed to be
five thousand rupees:
Provided that where the Board has in the case stated set out an amount
higher than five thousand rupees as the amount of the tax in dispute, the
value of the matter in dispute in such civil action shall be deemed to be that
higher amount; and
(c) the Commissioner shall not be required in respect of any such appeal, to make
any deposit· or pay any fee or any security prescribed by such written law.
CHAPTER  XXVIII
RECOVERY OF TAX
83. (1) In this Chapter “tax” includes “Turnover Tax” and “Stamp Duty” and any sum
added to such “Turnover Tax” or “Stamp Duty” and any other taxes, ,fines penalties,
fee or costs whatsoever incurred or paid· under this Statute.
(2) The tax required to be paid by any notice under Section 12 or Section 55(1) (b) shall
be paid on or before the date specified on such notice and the tax not so paid shall
be deemed to be in default.
(3) Where the tax payable during every quarter under Sections 12 or 13 or under Section
55(1)(b) is not paid on or before the date specified therein such tax together with a
penalty of 10 percent of the tax and 2 percent of the tax in default for every month of
non-payment shall be deemed to be in default and the person liable to pay the tax
shall be deemed to be a defaulted.
Provided that the total amounts payable as penalty shall not exceed 50% of the
tax in default.
(4) Tax shall be paid, notwithstanding any appeal unless the Commissioner orders that
payment of the tax or any part thereof be held over, pending the determination of
such appeal, and upon such order, the amount held over shall be deemed not to be
in default.
Tax not paid by
specified date
deemed tax in
default
10—PG 2259

<!-- page 34 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
34A
(5) Where the Commissioner is of opinion either that the tax or any part thereof held
over under Subsection (4) is likely to become irrecoverable, or that the appellant is
unreasonably delaying the prosecution of his appeal, he may revoke any order
made under that Subsection and make such fresh order as the case may- appear to
him to require and the amount of any tax not paid on or before such date as may be
specified in the fresh order shall be deemed to be in default.
(6) Where upon the final determination of an appeal under this Part or upon any order
made by the Commissioner, any tax which has been held over under Subsection (4)
becomes payable or the tax payable under a notice is increased, the Commissioner
shall give to the appellant a notice in writing fixing a date on or before which any tax
or balance tax shall be paid. Any tax not paid on or before such date shall be deemed
to be in default.
84. Any tax in default shall be a first charge upon all the assets of the defaulter:
Provided that-
(i) such charge shall not extend to, or affect, any assets sold by the defaulter to bona
fide purchaser for value prior to the seizure of the same in accordance with the
provisions of Section 86; and
(ii) as regards immoveable properly, the amount in default shall not rank in priority to
any lease or encumbrance created bona fide for value and registered prior to the
date of such seizure.
85. (1) Where any tax is in default, the Commissioner shall, before proceeding to recover
such duty in any manner hereinafter provided, issue a notice in writing to the
defaulter stating-
(a) the paticulars of such tax ; and
(b) that action is being contemplated to recover the tax
(2) If such defaulter has not appealed within the proper time against any assessment or
notice under Section 55(1) (b) he may within thirty days of the date of the notice
issued under subsection
 (l) of this Section, make any objection to the tax so charged and the Commissioner
shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Statute, consider such
objections and give his decision thereon which shall be final.
(3) Notwithstanding anything in this Section, where there is an appeal against a notice
under Section 55( 1 )(b) and the payment of any tax specified in such notice is held
over on the order of the Commissioner and the appellant agrees, during the course
of the hearing of that appeal, that a certain sum is due or likely to be due as tax in
respect of that notice, the Commissioner may, by notice in writing given to the
appellant, direct the appellant to pay such sum on or before such date as is specified
in the notice. Any sum not paid on or before such date shall be deemed to be in
default.
(4) Where upon the final determination of an appeal under this Part any tax in default is
reduced the penalty payable in respect of such tax shall be proportionately reduced.
Tax to be the first
charge
Notice to defaulter

<!-- page 35 -->

35AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
86. (1) There shall be appointed tax collectors for the purpose of this Statute.
(2) (a) Where any tax is In default, the Commissioner may issue a certificate to a tax
collector containing particulars of such tax and the name of the defaulter, and
the officer to whom such certificate is issued is hereby empowered and required
to cause the tax to be recovered . from the defaulter named in the certificate by
seizure and sale of his movable property.
(b) A seizure of movable property shall be effected in such manner as such officer
shall deem most expedient in that behalf, and as soon as any movable property
is seized by such officer a list of such property shall forthwith be made and
signed by him and shall be given to the defaulter and a copy thereof furnished
to the Commissioner.
( c) Where the property so seized is -
(i) cash in Sri Lankan currency, such cash shall be applied in
satisfaction of the tax in default;
(ii) cash in foreign currency, such cash shall be deposited In the Central
Bank and the proceeds therefrom applied in satisfaction of the tax in
default;
(iii) property other than cash, such property shall be kept for five days at
the costs and charges of the defaulter. If the defaulter does not pay the
tax in default together with the costs and charges within the five days,
the tax collector shall cause such property to be sold by public auction
or where such property is a negotiable instrument or a share in any
corporation or public company, to be sold through a broker at the market
rate of the day.
(d) The sum realized by the sale referred to in sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph
(c) shall be applied-
(i) firstly, in payment of the costs and charges of seizing, keeping and
selling the property, and
(ii) secondly, in satisfaction of the tax in default, and any balance shall
be paid to the owner of the property seized.
(3) It shall be lawful for a tax collector to recover from any defaulter reasonable expenses
incurred by him in proceedings against the defaulter under this Section
notwithstanding the seizure was not effected. Where cash is seized such reasonable
expenses shall be set off first from the cash so seized.
(4) Where any tax is in default and the Commissioner is of opinion that recovery by the
means provided in the subsection (2) is impracticable or inexpedient, he may institute
an action in the District Court having jurisdiction in any district where the defaulter
resides or in which any property, movable or immovable, owned by the defaulter is
situated, containing particulars of such tax and the name or names of the person or
persons by whom the tax is payable. The Court may after due process direct a writ
of execution to issue to the Fiscal authorizing and requiring him to seize and sell all
or any of the property, movable or immovable, of the defaulter, or such part thereof
Appointment of tax
collectors

<!-- page 36 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
36A
as he may deem necessary for recovery of the tax, and the provisions of Sections
226 to 297 of the Civil Procedure Code shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to such seizure
and sale.
For the purposes of this Section “movable property” includes plant and
machinery.
(5) Whenever the Commissioner institutes an action in a District Court under this
Section, he shall forthwith issue the defaulter, a notification thereof by personal
service, or registered letter sent through the post, or telegraph,. but the non-receipt
of such notification by defaulter shall not invalidate proceedings under this Section.
87. (1) Where the Commissioner is of the opinion in any case that recovery of tax in default
by seizure and sale is impracticable or inexpedient or where the full tax has not been
recovered by seizure and sale, he may institute an action by summary procedure
giving particulars of such tax and the name and last known place of residence of the
defaulter to a Magistrate having jurisdiction in the division in which such place is
situated.
The Magistrate shall thereupon summon such defaulter before him to show cause
why further proceedings for the recovery of tax should not be taken against him,
and in default of sufficient cause being shown, the tax in default shall be deemed to
be a fine imposed by a sentence of the Magistrate on such defaulter for an  offence
punishable with a fine only or not punishable with  imprisonment, and the provisions
of subsection (1) of section 291 (except paragraphs (a), (b) and (i) thereof) of the
Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, relating to default of payment of a
fine imposed for such offence shall thereupon apply and the Magistrate may make
any direction which, by the provisions of that Subsection, he could have made at
the time imposing such sentence.
(2) Nothing in subsections (2) to (5) of Section 291 of the Code of Criminal Procedure
Act, No.15 of 1979, shall apply in any case referred to in Subsection (1) of this
Section.
(3)  In any case referred to in Subsection (1) in which the defaulter is sentenced to
imprisonment in default of payment of the fine deemed by that subsection to have
been imposed on him, the Magistrate may allow time for the payment of the amount
of that fine or direct payment of that amount to be made in installments.
(4) The Court may require bail to be given as a condition precedent to allowing time
under subsection (l) for showing cause as therein provided or under Subsection (3)
for the payment of the fine; and provisions of Chapter XXXIV of the Code of
Criminal Procedure Act, No.1 5 of 1979, shall apply.
(5) Where a Magistrate directs under Subsection (3) that a payment could be made in
installments, and default is made in the payment of anyone installment, proceedings
may be taken as if default had been made in payment of all the installments then
remaining UNPAID.
(6) In any proceedings under Subsection (l) the certificate of the Commissioner shall be
sufficient evidence that the tax has been duly required to be paid and is in default,
and any plea that the amount is excessive, incorrect, or under appeal shall not be
entertained.
Proceeding before
Magistrate for
recovery of tax

<!-- page 37 -->

37AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
88.  (1) Where tax payable by any person is in default and it appears to the Commissioner
to be probable that any person-
(a) owes or is about to pay any money to the defaulted or his agent ; or
(b) holds money for or on account of the defaulted or his agent
(c) holds money on account of some other person for any payment to the defaulter
or his agent;
(d) has authority from some other person to pay money to the defaulter or his
agent;
the Commissioner may give to such person notice in writing  (a  copy of which
shall be sent by post to defaulter) requiring   him to pay any such moneys not
exceeding the amount of tax in default to the officer named in such notice. The
notice shall apply to all such moneys which are in his hands or due from him
at the date of receipt of such notice, or come into his hand or become due from
him or are about to be paid by him at any time within a period of three months
after the date of such notice.
(2) Any person who has made any payment to the Commissioner in pursuance of this
Section shall be deemed to have acted under the authority of the defaulter and of all
other persons concerned and is hereby indemnified in respect of such payment
against all proceedings, civil or criminal, notwithstanding the provisions of any
written law, contract, or agreement.
(3) Any person to whom a notice has been given under Subsection (1) who is unable to
comply therewith or owing to the fact that the moneys referred to in that Subsection
do not come into his hands or that no such moneys become due from him within the
period referred to in that Subsection shall within fourteen days of the expiration
thereof give notice in writing to the Commissioner appraising of the facts.
(4) Where any person to whom a notice has been given under Subsection (l) is unable
to comply therewith and has failed to give notice to the Commissioner as provided
in Subsection (3), or where such person has paid or could have paid the tax to which
the notice relates or any part thereof and has not paid over such tax or part thereof
as required by the notice given by the Commissioner within fourteen day after the
expiration of the period referred to in Subsection (1), such person shall if he is an
individual and where such person is a company or body of persons, whether
corporate or unincorporate, the Secretary, Manager or other Principal Officer of
such company or body of persons as the case may be, personally liable for the
whole of the tax which such person has been required to pay and such tax may be
recovered from such individual. For the purpose of recovering the tax in default
such person can be added as a defendant in the action filed· against the tax defaulter
and/or an action by summary procedure be filed in the relevant District Court against
such person for the recovery of tax in default owed by the tax defaulter.
(5) For the purposes of this Section the expression “defaulter” shall be deemed to
include the agent, of a person who is in default and the provisions of this Section
shall apply in any case where the tax which would have been paid by any person if
he were alive is in default; and for the purpose of the application of those provisions
in any such case, the expression “defaulter” in Subsection (1) means,
Recovery of tax
from person owing
money to defaulter

<!-- page 38 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
38A
(a) the executor or administrator of a deceased person ; or
(b) any person who takes possession of, or intermeddle with the property of a
deceased person; or
(d) any person who has applied or is entitled to apply to a District Court for the
grant or resealing of a probate or letters of administration in respect of the
estate of a deceased person.
89. (1) Where the Commissioner is of opinion that any person is about to or likely to leave
Sri Lanka without paying the amount of tax required to be paid by such person, he
may issue a certificate containing particulars of such amount and the name of such
person to a Magistrate who shall, on receipt thereof direct the Controller of
Immigration and Emigration to prevent such person from leaving Sri Lanka without
paying the amount or furnishing security to the satisfaction of the Commissioner for
payment thereof.
(2) At the time of issue of his certificate to the Magistrate the Commissioner shall issue
to such person a notification thereof by personal service or registered letter sent
through the post, or telegraph; but the non- receipt of such notification by such
person shall not invalidate proceedings under this Section.
(3) Production of the certificate signed by the Commissioner stating that the amount
has been paid or that security has been furnished or that the amount has been paid
to a Police Officer in charge of a Police Station, shall be sufficient authority· for
allowing such person to leave Sri Lanka. Any Police Officer to whom the amount of
tax has been paid shall forthwith pay such amount to the Commissioner.
90. Where the Commissioner is of opinion that application of any of the provisions of this
Chapter has failed or is likely to fail to secure the payment of the whole or any part of the
tax due under this Statue from any person, it shall be lawful for him to proceed to recover
any sum remaining unpaid by any other lawful means of recovery provided in this Chapter.
91. The Commissioner may, by notice in writing to any person, require that person to furnish
within the period specified in such notice, such information as the Commissioner may
require for the purposes of recovery of any tax due from such person.
PART   E
CHAPTER  XXIX
EXCISE REVENUE
92. Tapping licence fees and liquor licence fees on the possession, transport, purchase and
sale of intoxicating liquors levied or imposed under the Excise Ordinance No.8 of 1912 as
amended, which are paid or collected in the Province shall be collected in accordance with
the aforesaid Ordinance as amended, and remitted to the credit of the Provincial Fund of
the Province.
93. The Commissioner of Revenue of the Province or an officer not below the rank of Assessor
and authorized in that behalf by the Commissioner, may, for the purpose of verifying any
matter, relating to the recovery of licence fees or rents, by written order, require, any tavern
renter or liquor license engaged in the transport, possession, purchase or retail sale of
liquor, to produce books of accounts, registers, records or other documents for inspection
by such officer.
Recovery of tax
from persons
leaving Sri Lanka
Recovery of tax by
more than one
means
Power to recover
taxes from any
person
Excise Licence Fees
and Tavern Rents
Authority for
inspection of books
of accounts

<!-- page 39 -->

39AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
PART F
CHAPTER  XXX
LOTTERIES
94. (1) There shall be charged on every lottery conducted in the Northern Province in
accordance with the Lotteries Ordinance, other than a national lottery or a lottery
organized by the Government of Sri Lanka, a tax calculated on the gross proceeds of
such lottery at such rates as shall be specified by law published in the Gazette.
(2) Every Order made under subsection (1) shall come into force on the day specified in
the Order and shall be brought before the Provincial Council within one month from
the publication of such Order in the Gazette or if no meeting of the Council is held
within such period, at the first meeting held after the expiry of such period for
approval by the Council.
(3) Any order which the Council refuses to approve shall, with effect from the date of
such refusal, be deemed to be revoked, but without prejudice to, the validity of
anything done thereunder. Notification of the date on which such Older is deemed
to be revoked shall be published in the  Gazette.
(4) In this section lottery includes any undertaking in the nature of a Lottery.
95. (1) Any tax imposed under Section 94 shall be payable by the promoter or promoters of
the Lottery to the Commissioner. If such tax is not paid it may be recovered from the
promoter or promoters as a debt due to the Provincial Council.
(2) Where a promoter or promoters do not pay tax he or they shall also be guilty of
an offence under this Part of the Statute.
(3) Every person who commits an offence under this Part of this Statute shall upon
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding
Rs.5000 or tc imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding six months
or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(4) In this Section “promoter” in relation to a lottery means a  person licensed under
the Lotteries Ordinance to promote or conduct a lottery.
PART  G
CHAPTER  XXXI
PRIZE COMPETITIONS
96.  (I) There shall be charged on the proceeds of every prize competition conducted in the
Northern Province under the authority of a licence issued under the Prize Competition
Act, a tax at such rates as shall be specified by law published in the Gazette. Different
rates may be prescribed in respect of different prize competitions.
(2) The tax imposed under subsection (1) on the proceeds of a prize competition shall
be paid by the promoter of that prize competition to the Commissioner, within thirty
days of the closure of entries in such competition.
Lotteries Tax
Payment of Tax
Imposition of tax
for prize
competitions
Date on which tax
to be paid

<!-- page 40 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
40A
(3) Where the promoter of a prize competition fails to comply with subsection (2) he
shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute and shall on conviction after summary
trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees.
(4) Where the promoter of a prize competition fails to pay the tax imposed on the
proceeds of such prize competition within the period referred to in Subsection (2),
the tax shall be deemed to be in default and the amount of such tax together with the
penalty equal to ten per centum of such amount may be recovered from such promoter
by the Commissioner as a debt due to the Provincial Council.
(5) In this Section, “proceeds” in relation to a prize competition means the total amount
paid as entrance fees in respect of entries in such competitions; “promoter” in
relation to a prize competition means the person deemed under Section 14 of the
Prize Competitions Act to be the promoter of that competition.
PART  H
CHAPTER  XXXII
COURT FINES AND FEES
97. (1) All fines in respect of offences imposed by a Court of  Law, exercising jurisdiction
within the Northern Province and paid into Court shall, other than fines imposed for
recovery of a tax, charge or other levy under ‘any written law, shall subject to any
direction which a Court of Law may make with regard to any payment to be made out
of such fines in terms   of any written law, be credited to ,the Provincial Fund of the
Province.
(2) All Court fees collected by a Court of Law exercising  jurisdiction within the Northern
Province shall be credited tc the Provincial Fund of the Province.
PART I
CHAPTER  XXXIII
MISCELLANEOUS
98. (1) Every notice to be given by the Commissioner, a Deputy Commissioner or an Assessor
under this Statute shall bear the: name of the Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner
or Assessor. as the case may be, and every such notice shall be valid if the~ name of
the Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner or Assessor is duly printed or signed
thereon
(2) Every notice given by virtue of this Statute may be served on a person either
personally or by being delivered at or sent by the post to the last known place of
abode or any place at which he is, or was, during the period to which the notice
relates, carrying on business:
Provided that a notice of assessment under Section 11 ,13 or 14 shall be served
personally or by being sent by post by registered letter to ‘any such place as
aforesaid.
(3) Any notice sent by post shall be deemed to have been served on the day on which
it could have been received in the ordinary course of post.
Court fines
Signature and
service of notice
Panelty for
defaulting payment
of tax
Interpretation

<!-- page 41 -->

41AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
(4) In proving service by post it shall be sufficient to prove that the letter containing
the notice was duly addressed and posted.
(5) Every name printed or signed on any notice or signed on any certificate given or
issued for the purposes of this Statute, ‘which purports to be ‘ the name of the
person authorized to give or issue the same, shall be judicially noticed.
99. (1) If it is proved to the satisfaction of the Commissioner by claim duly made in writing
within three years of the date of the payment of any stamp duty or penalty, by
compounding or otherwise, that any person has paid any stamp duty or penalty in
excess of the amount properly payable by him, such person shall be entitled to have
refunded the amount so paid in excess.
(2) If it is proved to the satisfaction of the Commissioner by claim duly made in writing
within three years after the end of a quarter that any person has paid turnover tax in
excess of the amount with which he was properly chargeable for that quarter, such
person shall be entitled to have refunded the amount so paid in excess.
(3) Nothing in this Section shall operate to extend or reduce any time limit for appeal or
repayment specified in any other Section or to validate any objection or appeal
which is otherwise invalid or to authorize the revision of any matter which has
become final and conclusive.
(4) Where it is proved to the satisfaction of the Commissioner by claim made in writing
that any person has paid any sum referred to in Subsection (1) of Section 13 which
is in excess of the sum which he should have paid if such sum were calculated in
accordance with the provisions of Subsection (2) of that Section, such person shall
be entitled to have refunded the amount so paid in excess, if such claim is made
within three years of the end of the quarter in which the sum referred to in the
aforesaid Subsection (l) was paid.
100. (1) Except in the performance of his duties under this Statute, every person who is or
has been employed in carrying out or in assisting any person in carrying out the
provisions of this Statute shall preserve, and aid in preserving, secrecy with regard
to all matters relating to affairs of any person that may come to his knowledge in the
performance of his duties under this Statute, and shall not communicate any such
matter to any person other than the person to whom such matter relates or his
authorized representative or to the Minister or the Secretary to the Ministry of the
Minister nor offer or permit any person to have access to any records in the
possession, custody or control of the Commissioner.
(2) Every person employed in carrying out the provisions of this Statute shall before
acting under this Statute, and the Minister and the Secretary ’. to the Ministry of
the Minister may before acting under this Statute, take and subscribe before a
Justice of the Peace an oath of secrecy in the prescribed form.
(3) No person employed in carrying out the provisions of this Statute shall be required
to produce in any court any return, document or assessment or to divulge or
communicate to any court any matter or thing coming under his notice under this
Statute, except as may be necessary for the purpose of carrying into effect the
provisions of this   Statute  or any other written law administered by the Commissioner.
Stamp duty or
penalty paid
inadvertently
Official secrecy
Turnover tax paid
in excess to be
refunded

<!-- page 42 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
42A
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Section, any officer of the Provincial
Department of Revenue may communicate any matter which comes to his knowledge
in the performance of his duties under this Statute or under any other written law
administered by the Commissioner to any other officer of that Department if the
communication is necessary for the performance of any duty under this Statute or
under any such other written law and the Commissioner may, notwithstanding
anything in the Evidence Ordinance relating to the proof of  documents, produce or
cause to be produced in any court, in any proceedings under this Statute, a copy of
any particulars contained in any return or document received by him or in his
possession under this Statue or under any other written law administered by him,
certified by him or on his behalf to be a correct copy of such particulars:
Provided, that the Commissioner may produce or cause to be produced the original
of any such return or document in any case where it is necessary to prove the
handwriting or the signature of the person who wrote, made, signed or furnished
such return or document but only for the purpose of such proof:
Provided, further, that the Commissioner shall not in any case be compelled to
produce in any court either the original of such document or return or copy of any
particulars contained in such document or return.
(5) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Section, the Commissioner may permit
the Auditor-General or any officer of the Department of the Auditor- General duly
authorized by him in that behalf to have such access to any records or documents as
may be necessary for the performance of his official duties. The Auditor-General or
any officer authorized by him under this Subsection shall be deemed to be a person
employed in carrying out the provisions of this Statute for the purpose of subsection (2).
(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Section, any officer of the Department
may communicate any matter which comes to his knowledge in the performance of
his duties under this Statute or under any other Statute administered by the
Commissioner to-
(a) any other officer of the Department, if the communication of such matter is necessary
for the performance of any duty under this Statute or such other Statute;
(b) the Commissioner - General of Inland Revenue of Sri Lanka, being a matter which
relates to the income of any person to such an extent as the Commissioner may deem
necessary to enable the Commissioner - General of Inland Revenue to ascertain
such income
101. The Commissioner may from time to time prescribe the forms and registers of transactions
to be used for all or any of the purposes of this Statute; and any forms or registers of
transactions so prescribed may from time to time be amended or varied by the Commissioner,
or some other forms or registers of transactions may be substituted by the Commissioner in
place of any forms or registers of transactions so prescribed.
CHAPTER  XXXIV
INTERPRETATION
102. In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires _
“adhesive stamp” means a stamp which can be pasted and respect of which an Order
under Section 74 (1) is in force;
Forms and register
of transactions
Interpretation

<!-- page 43 -->

43AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
“agent” includes any person having the direction, control management of any
business on behalf of any other person;
“Assessor” means a Provincial Assessor of Revenue appoint for the purposes of and
includes a Senior Assessor of Revenue appointed for the purposes of this Statute;
“article” means any goods, material or any agricultural horticultural produce;
“Authorized representatives” means any individual
(1) who is authorized in writing by a person to act on  behalf for the purpose
of this Statute and who is -
(a) in any case
(i) a member of the Institute of Charted Accountants of Sri Lanka;
or
(ii) an Accountant approved by the Commissioner ; or
(iii) an Attorney-at-Law ; or
(iv) an employee regularly employed by that person ;
(b) in the case of an individual, a relative
(c) in the case of a company, a director or the secretary of that company;
(d) in the case of a partnership, a partner in that partnership
(e) in the case of a body of persons, in member of that body or
(2) who is authorized in writing from time to time, by a pers( to act on his behalf
for the purpose of this Statute in respect such matters as are specified in the
authorization and who being an individual registered as an auditor under t!
Companies (Auditors) Regulations is approved by t! Commissioner or is an
individual approved by the Commission General of Inland Revenue for the
purpose of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 under regulations made
under that. Act in that behalf.
“bank” includes a banking institution:
“banking institution” has the same meaning as in the Monetary Law Act;
“body of persons” means anybody corporate or incorporate any fraternity, fellowship,
association or society of person whether incorporated or unincorporated, or any
partnership:
“business” means selling by wholesale or retail of any article but shall not include a sale
by a manufacturer.
“chargeable” in relation to an instrument executed first after the date of commencement
of this Statute, means chargeable with stamp duty under this Statute.
“Commissioner” means the Provincial Commissioner of Revenue and includes a Provincial
Deputy Commissioner of Revenue appointed for the purpose of this Statute, who
is authorized with( generally or for some special purpose, by the Commissioner to
act on his behalf;

<!-- page 44 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
44A
“company” mean any company incorporated or registered under any law in force in Sri
Lanka or elsewhere and includes public corporation;
“conveyance” includes every instrument by which an immovable property or motor
vehicle or any interest therein is transferred;
“Council” means the Provincial Council established for the Northern Province under the
Constitution;
“Deputy Commissioner” means a Provincial Deputy Commissioner of Revenue appointed
for the purposes of this Statute;
“die” includes any plate, type, tool or implement, a part thereof used under the direction
of the Commissioner for expressing a denoting the fact that any stamp duty or
penalty has been paid in respect of an instrument, or that any instrument is duly
stamped a is not chargeable with stamp duty;
“document” in relation to legal proceedings in any court means an appointment of
attorney, plaint, answer, replication or other pleading, petition, application, affidavit,
appointment summons, judgment, decree, order of any description, aware writ,
warrant, inventory, account, mandate, bon recognizance; citation, application
other than motion interrogatories, answer to interrogatories, notice of appeal bill
of costs, commission injunction or notice;
“duly stamped” in relation to an instrument means that the   instrument bears an adhesive
or impressed stamp or a  certification of endorsement or has affixed  thereto a
certificate of payment of not less than the proper amount, and where such stamp
is an adhesive stamp, that such stamp has been affixed and cancelled according
to the provisions of this Statute;
“executed” and “execution” used in relation to an  instrument means “signed” and
“signature” respectively;
“executor” means an executor or administrator of a deceased person and includes-
(a) any person who takes possession of or intermeddles with property of a
deceased person; or
(b) any person who has applied or is entitled to apply to a District   Court for the
grant or resealing of probate or letters of administration in respect of the
estate of a deceased person; or
(c) a trustee acting under trust created by a last will of the author of the trust:
“gift” means a transfer by one person to another of any moveable or immovable property
made voluntarily and without consideration in money or money’s worth;
“incapacitated person” means any minor, lunatic, idiot or person of unsound mind;
“impressed stamp” means a stamp impressed by means of a die and in relation to any
instrument chargeable with a stamp duty not exceeding ten rupees, includes
stamps impressed by mean of a postal franking machine, which is used under a
permit issued by the Council;

<!-- page 45 -->

45AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
“instrument” include every document relating to a transfer of immovable property in the
Northern Province or a transfer of a motor vehicle effected in the Northern Province;
“Minister” means the Minister of the Board of Ministers of the Province to whom the
subject of Finance has been assigned;
“money” includes all sums, whether, expressed in Sri Lankan or foreign currency;
“motor vehicles” shall have the same meaning as in the Motor Traffic Act;
“power of attorney” includes any instrument empowering a ,specified person to act
for, in the name of the person executing it;
“person” includes a company or body of persons or any Government Department;
“Prescribed ” means prescribed under this statute
“Province” means the nothern province of Sri Lanka
“Provincial Council” or “Council” means the Provincial Council of the Northern
Province.
“Precedent Partner” means the partner who, of the active partners resident in Sri
Lanka:
(b ) if there is no agreement is specified by the name or initials singly or with
precedence to the other partners in the usual name of the partnership; or
(c ) is first named in the statement made under Section 4 of the Business Names
Ordinance.
“public officer” has the same meaning as in Article 170 of the Constitution and
includes a provincial public officer.
“quarter” means the period of three months commencing on the first day of January, the
first day of April, the first day of July, and the first day of October, of each year;
“Registrar-General”, “Deputy Registrar-General” and “Assistant Registrar-General” mean
the Registrar-General, the Deputy Registrars-General” and “Assistant Registrars-
General” appointed under the provisions of the Births and Deaths Registration
Act No. 17 of 1951 as amended, respectively;
“transfer” means a sale and shall include a gift or exchange or a conveyance, without
consideration, by an executor or administrators of an estate of a deceased to a
person beneficially entitled to such property or to a trustee appointed under the
will of the deceased, or by a trustee to a beneficiary or a conveyance, without
consideration, by a trustee or the executor or administrator of a deceased trustee
to a surviving trustee or to a new trustee, but does not include a deed of partition
of any land held in common or an agreement to transfer.
“trustee” includes any trustee, guardian, curator, manager, agent or other person having
the direction, control or management of any property, on behalf of any person but
does not include an executor.

<!-- page 46 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2014
46A
“value” with reference -
(a) to any property (other than immovable property which is gifted) and to any
date, means the price which in the opinion of the Assessor, that property
would have fetched in the open market on that date;
(b ) to any immovable property which is gifted, being immovable property which
was acquired by the donor on or before March 31 st, 1977 means -
(i) the price which in the opinion of the Assessor that property would
have fetched if sold in the open market on March 31 st, 1977 increased
by an amount equal to the cost of the improvements, alterations and
additions, if any, made to such property after March 31 st 1977 and
prior to the date of the instrument by which such property is gifted; or
(ii) the price which, in the opinion of the Assessor, that property would
have fetched if sold in the open market on the date of the instrument
by which such property is gifted;
whichever price is the lower
(c ) any immovable property which is gifted, being immovable property which
was acquired by the donor after March 31 st , 1977 means-
(i) the price which, in the opinion of the Assessor, such property would
have fetched if sold in the open market on the date on which such
property, was acquired by the donor, increased by an amount equal to
the cost of the improvements, alterations and additions, if any, made
to such property after the date on which the property was acquired by
the donor, and prior to the date of the instrument by which such
property is gifted; or
(ii) the price which, in the opinion of the Assessor that property would
have fetched, if sold in the open market on the date of the instrument
by which such property was gifted;
Whichever price is the lower.
103. In the event of an inconsistency between the Tamil and Sinhala  texts of this Statute the
Tamil text shall prevail.
Tamil text to
prevail in the event
of an inconsistency
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
12- 433