

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Part II of July 08, 2016
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 11.07.2016)
LASALLIAN COMMUNITY EDUCATION SERVICES
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Lasallian Community Education Services
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. K. K. Piyadasa, M.P.  for
Nuwera-Eliya  District
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5.
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
(Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

Lasallian Community Education Services
(Incorporation)
1
5
10
15
2—PL 010027—300  (06/2016)
20
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE LASALLIAN COMMUNITY
EDUCATION SERVICES
WHEREAS an organization called and known as the
“Lasallian Community Education Services ” has heretofore
been established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting all objects and matters connected
with the said organization  according to the rules agreed to
by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said organization has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the application:
BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Lasallian Community
Education Services  (Incorporation) Act, No.    of  2016.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of  the Lasallian
Community Education Services (hereinafter referred to as the
“organization”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate,
(hereinafter  referred to as the  “Corporation”) with perpetual
succession, under the name and style of  the “ Lasallian
Community Education Services”  and by that name may sue
and be sued in all courts with full power and authority to have
and  use a common seal and  alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be —
(a) providing the vocational training with collaboration
of the National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the
Lasallian
Community
Education
Services.
The general
objects of the
Corporation.
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Lasallian Community Education Services
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
Authoritly (NAITA) and Tertiary and Vocational
Education Commission (TVEC) and Vocational
Training Authority (VTA) for youths between the age
of 16 - 25 years who have left the school education;
(b) providing the kindergarten school service for the
children of the poor parents;
(c) implementing rehabilitation programs for the freshers
who are addicted to drugs;
(d) educating the children of the underdeveloped society
living in slums who are not schooling;
(e) giving meals to non-schooling children who are
suffering from hunger due to poverty and nourish
them and direct  them to obtain education;
(f) implementing the group programs engaging the
children through child focused community
development (CFCD) and promoting them for better
adulthood;
(g) providing nutritious program for infants, pregnant
and feeding mothers;
(h) implementing suitable group programs for the
children who are mentally retarded;
(i) implementing volunteer employment program to the
needy mothers by giving them loans, aid and providig
them with necessary counseling (SHG-Self Help
Group);
(j) awareness program to the children through such
activities as religious, cultural and sports.

<!-- page 4 -->

Lasallian Community Education Services
(Incorporation)
3
5
10
15
20
25
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to —
(a) obtaining of donations, gifts or awards in cash or in
any other form from local and foreign sources;
(b) developing relationships with local and foreign
institutions which have similar objects and obtaining
their assistance;
(c) investing, withdrawing or reinvesting of money or
assets belonging to the Corporation in accordance
with the decisions made by the Board of Directors;
(d) for carrying out the activities or the Corporation
appointing the officers and other workers and
occupying them in service, paying salaries or
allowances, controlling their discipline and
dismissing from service according to the decision
taken by the Board of Directors;
(e) opening, operating and closing bank accounts in and
outside Sri Lanka including preparing, writing,
accepting, giving discounts, negotiating, purchasing,
selling and issuing of bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments;
(f) borrow or raise money with or without security; and
(g) generally do all such other acts and things as are
necessary for and incidental or conducive to the
carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other  provisions of this Act and the rules in force be
administered by a Board of Directors elected by Rev. Bro.
Provincial in accordance with such rules.
General
powers of the
Corporation.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Lasallian Community Education Services
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(2) The first Board of directors of the  Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Directors of the Institute
holding office of the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
(3) The present Executive Director of the Institution shall
be the first Executive Director of the Corporation. All services
and development activities shall be carried out as per such
discretion and the fullest co-operation shall be extended in
the fulfillment of the roles and responsibilities of the aforesaid
office that has been appointed at the discretion of the Rev.
Bro. Provincial of the congregation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two-third of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters:—
(a) Classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal or expulsion of member;
(b) The election of the members of the Board of
Directors, the resignation from, or vacation of or
removal from office and their powers, conduct and
duties;
(c) The powers, conduct duties and functions of the
various officers, agent and servants of the
Corporation;
(d) The procedure to be observed for the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board of Directors,
the times, places, notices and agenda of such
meeting, and the conduct of business;
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Lasallian Community Education Services
(Incorporation)
5
(e) The administration and management of the
property of the Corporation; and
(f) Generally, for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or repealed in like manner at a like meeting
as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund. and all
monies heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gifts,
bequests, donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or
grants on behalf of the Corporation shall be deposited to the
credit of the fund of the Corporation  in one or more Banks
as the Board of Directors may determine.
(2) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fund or
a sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation, development
or improvement of the property of the Corporation.
(3) There shall be paid out of the fund  all such sums of
money as may be required to defray any expenditure incurred
by the Corporation in the exercise, performance and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
8. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper accounts to be kept of all money received and
expended by the Corporaton.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by an auditor or
auditors appointed by the Board of Directors.
5
10
15
20
25
Fund of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
Audit.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Lasallian Community Education Services
(Incorporation)
9. All debts and liabilities of the organization existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation, hereby constituted and all
debts, subscriptions and contributions payable to the
organization on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purpose of this Act.
10. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law,
to take and  hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
lease, gift, agreement,  testamentary disposition or otherwise,
and all such property shall be held by the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act and subject to the rules in force for
the time being of the Corporation, with full power to sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, it shall go to the Rev. Bro.
Provincial of the congregation of the De La Salle and may
be given or transferred to some other institute or institutes
having objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which
is, or are, by  rules thereof prohibited from distributing any
income or property among its or their members.
12. The seal of the Corporation shall  be kept in the
custody of the Executive Director of the Corporation and it
shall be used by the Executive Director in terms of the
effective rules of the Corporation.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic or
corporate or of any other person, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Seal of the
Corporation.
15 Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.20
25
30
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Organization.

<!-- page 8 -->

Lasallian Community Education Services
(Incorporation)
7
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .