

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'18
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 18.03.2016
w;s úfYI
wxl 1958$73 - 2016 ud¾;= ui 18 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'03'18
No.1958/73  - FRIDAY  MARCH  18,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 1A
EASTERN   PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
IT is hereby noticed that the Eastern Province Tourism Bureau Statute No. 01 of 2016 was passed by the Council on 23rd of
February 2016 and Hon. Governor's assent has been obtained on 11th of March 2016.
M. C. M. SHERIFF,
Provincial Council Secretary,
Eastern Province Provincial Council.
Provincial Council Secretariat,
Eastern Province Provincial Council,
Trincomalee,
14th of March 2016.
Eastern Province Tourism Bureau No........2015
A statute to provide for the establishment of the Eastern Tourism Bureau for the development
and control of the tourism industry within the Eastern Province and for matters connected therewith or
incidental thereto. This statute is inconsistent with the provisions of the Tourist Development Act, No.
14 of 1968, insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of this Statute.
Whereas it is a fundamental duty of the Provincial Council of the Eastern Province to develop
the tourism industry in the Eastern Province whilst safeguarding the cultural heritage of the Eastern
Province and the moral values of the people. The Provincial Council of the Eastern Province is desirous
of working in concurrence with the assisting the national tourism authorities of Sri Lanka in the
formulation and implementation of “National Policy” on tourism in accordance with such principles as
are enshrined in the Constitution.
Now therefore be it enacted by the Provincial Council of the Eastern Province as follows :
1. (1) This Statute may be cited as the Eastern Province Tourism Bureau Statute No........ of
2015.
(2) From the date on which this Statute come into operation. the provisions of the Tourist
Development Act, No. 14 of 1968, insofar as they are inconsistant with the provisions
of this Statute, remain suspended and inoperative in the Eastern Province.
Preamble
Short Title and
date of operation

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'18
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 18.03.2016
2A
PART   I
ESTABLISHMENT  OF  THE   EASTERN   PROVINCE   TOURISM   BUREAU
2. There shall be established a bureau, which shall be called the Eastern Province Tourism
Bureau (hereinafter referred to as the “Bureau”)
3. The Bureau shall by the name assigned to it by Section 2 be a body corporate with a common
seal and shall have perpetual succession and may sue and be sued in such name.
4. (1) The composition of the Bureau shall consist of the following members.
(a) five member who shall be appointed by the Minister (hereinafter referred to as
“appointed members”) from the persons who have wide experience in Tourism
and Hotel Management or Business Administration or from among persons
who hold professional qualifications in marketing, financial management, law
or any other related discipline.
(b) four other members (hereinafter referred to as ex officio members) namely
(i) the Secretary to the Ministry of Tourism in the Eastern Provincial Council
(ii) a Senior Officer of the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority
nominated by the Minister-in-charge of the subject of Tourism.
(iii) an officer nominated by Deputy Inspector General of Police Eastern
Province from among officers not below the rank of Superintendent of
Police.
(iv) a Senior Of ficer of Treasury of the Eastern Province.
(2) (a) The Minister shall appoint one of the Appointed Members to be the Chairman
of the Bureau.
(b) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) and (d) the term of office of the
Chairman shall be three years.
(c) The Minister may for reason assigned remove the Chairman from office of
Chairman.
(d) Where the Chairman of the Bureau is temporarily unable to perform the duties
of his office due to ill health, other infirmity, absence from Sri Lanka or any
other cause, the Minister may appoint any other Appointed Member to act as
the Chairman.
5. (a) The Minister shall, prior to appointing a person as a member of the Bureau, satisfy
himself that such person has no financial or other interest in the affairs of the Bureau,
as is likely to affect prejudically, the discharge by such person of his functions as a
member of the Bureau.
(b) The Minister shall also satisfy himself, from time to time, that no member of the
Bureau has since being appointed acquired any such interest.
Eastern Tourism
Bureau
Bureau to be a
body corporate
Members of the
Bureau
Financial and
other interest of
the members

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'18
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 18.03.2016
(c) Any person appointed by the Minister, or whom the Minister proposes to appoint as
a member of the Bureau shall, whenever required by the Minister so to di, furnish
such information as the Minister considers necessary for the purposes of this Statute.
(d) A member of the Bureau who is in any way, directly or indriectly, interested in any
contract made or proposed to be made by the Bureau shall desclose the nature of his
interest at a meeting of the Bureau and such disclosure shall be recorded in the minutes
of the Bureau and the member shall not participate in any deliberation or decision of
the Bureau with regard to that contract.
6. (1) The Seal of the Bureau shall be as determined by the Bureau
(2) The Seal of the Bureau
(a) shall be in the custody of such persons or persons as the Bureau may from time
to time, determine ;
(b) shall not be affixed to any instrument or document without the sancation of the
Bureau and except in the presence of two members of the Bureau, both of
whom shall sign the instrument or document in token of their presence.
7 (1) The Chairman shall preside at every meeting of the Bureau, Where the Chairman is
absent, the members present shall elect a Chairman for that meeting from among
themselves.
(2) Every question which comes up for consideration before the Bureau shall be dealt
with at a meeting of the Bureau and shall be determined by the majority of the members
present and voting.
(3) All acts done at any meeting shall, notwithstanding that it be afterwards discovered
that there was some defect in the appointment of any member thereof or that any
(4) such member was disqualified, be as valid as if every such member had been duly
appointed and was qualified to be such member.
(5) No act or proceeding of a meeting shall be invalidated by reason only of any vacancy
among the members of the Bureau.
8 The quorum for any of the meetings of the Bureau shall be five.
9 (1) Every appointed member of the Bureau shall hold office as long as he holds the
office by virtue of which he has been appointed to the Bureau.
10 (1) Every appointed member of the Bureau shall, unless he vacates office earlier by
death, resignation, or removal, held office for a period of three years, and shall be
eligible for reappointment, unles removed from office.
(2) The Minister may for reasons assigned remove any appointed member from office.
(3) Any appointed member may resign from office at any time by letter addressed in that
behalf to the Minister and such resignation shall take effect upon it being accepted
by the Minister.
Seal of the Bureau
Meetings of the
Bureau
The quorum
Ex officio
members
Provisions
relating to
Appointed
Members

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'18
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 18.03.2016
4A
(4) In the event of the death, resignation or removal from office of any appointed member,
the Minister may having regard to the provisions of this Statute in relation to the
appointment of that particular appointed member, appoint another person as member
in his place. A person so appointed shall hold office for the unexpired period of the
term of office of the member whom he succeeds.
(5) Where any appointed member is temporarily unable to perform his duties of his
office due to ill health or absence from Sri Lanka or for any other reason, the Minister
may having regard to the provisions of this Statute in relation to the appointment of
that particular appointed member, appoint another person to act in his place.
11. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed or continuing as a member of the
Bureau, if he.
(a) is or becomes a member of Parliament, any Provincial Council or of local authority
(b) is not, or ceases to be, a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(c) directly or indirectly holds or enjoys any right or benefit under any contract made by
or on behlaf of the Bureau ;
(d) has any financial or other interest as it likely to affect prejudicially the discharge by
him of his functions as a member  of the Bureau ;
(e) is under any law inforce in Sri Lanka or any other country, fund or declared to be a
unsound mind ;
(f) is a person who having been declared as insolven or bankrupt ;
(g) is serving or has served a sentence of impriosnment imposed by any court in Sri
Lanka or any other country
12 The members of the Bureau may be paid such remuneration as may be determined by the
Minister with the concurrence of the Minister signed the subject of Finance in the Provincial
Council.
PART II
F
UNCTIONS  AND   POWERS   OF   THE   BUREAU
13. The functions of the Bureau shall be :-
(a) to develop and control the tourism industry in the Eastern Province ;
(b) to make recommendation to the national tourism authorities on measures which may
be introduced for the planning and development of the tourist industry.
(c) to develop identified tourist services within the Eastern Province with a view to
improving the tourist industry of the Eastern Province.
(d) to protect and preserve all tourist attractions in the Eeastern Province including
distrorically significant buildings and monuments, and the places of scenic beauty in
the Eastern Province.
Disqualifications
to be a member
Remuneration of
members
Functions of the
Bureau

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'18
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 18.03.2016
(e) to promote nationally and internationally all tourist attractions, facilities and services
available in the Eastern Province in collaboration with the national tourism
authorities ;
(f) to regulate and control the tourism industry in the Eastern Province by indentifying
the activities that may adversely affect the tourism industry in the Eastern Province
and to take appropriate measures  to eliminate or minimize such activities ;
(g) to assist individuals and private enterprises engaged in tourism related business
ventures in the Eastern Province, by providing them with financial infrastructural and
other assistance ;
(h) to promote employment apportunities particularly among the youth of the Eastern
Province by introducing tourism related business ventures and small industries and
providing them with required training and other assistance as may be required to
carry on such ventures ;
(i) to establish and maintain tourism and hotel management institutions in the Eastern
Province with a veiw to introducing competent professionals in the field of tourism
and hotel management ; and
(j) to formulate Tourism Development Plan for the Eastern Province and update and
review such development plans once in every two years.
14. The Bureau shall have the power to
(a) enter into contracts and agreements with any persons including government
departments, public corporations or private institutions as may be necessary for
discharging its functions ;
(b) accept gifts, grants, donations whether in cash or otherwise and apply them for carrying
out any of the fuctions of the Bureau ;
(c) acquire, purchase and hold any movable or immovable property or give on lease,
mortgage, pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of any movable or immovable property
acquired, purchased or held by the Bureau.
(d) import plant, machinery, equipment and material required for the purposes of the
Bureau.
(e) levy fees or charges for any services or facilities provided by the Bureau ;
(f) obtain the services of consultants where necessary for the efficient discharge of the
functions of the Bureau.
15. Where any person failed to utilize or utilize for other purpose any land situated within the
Eastern Province, which has been alienated to such person for carrying out of a tourist
development activity, it shall be lawful to the Minister to notify such misuse in writing to
the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers in charge of tourism and lands.
16. (1) The Bureau may establish branches within the Eastern Provice consisting of such
number of persons or emplyees as may be as determined by the Bureau, for the proper
exercise, discharge and performance of its powers, functions and duties.
Powers of the
Bureau
Power of the
Bureau to inform
non utilization of
alienated land
Power to establish
divisions and
branches

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'18
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 18.03.2016
6A
(2) The Bureau may delegate to such divisions or branches such of its powers. Functions
and duties as may be determined by the Bureau.
17. It shall be the duty of the Bureau to advise the Minister, on any matter that may be referred
to the Bureau by the Minister for its advice.
18 (1) It shall lawful to the Bureau to issue such directions to the employers in the tourist
industry to give priority to permanent residents of the Eastern Province when recruiting
people for employment in such industry.
(2) For the purpose of Subsection (1)
(a) “employers” means persons who run or manage tourist hotels and tourism related
business ventures in the administrative limits of the Eastern Province.
(b) The expression “employment” shall not include executive level positions.
19 (1) The Bureau may in consultation with the national tourism authorities, engage in tourism
related business venture within the administrative limits of the Eastern Province.
(2) For the purposes of this section “tourism related business ventures” include
establishment and management of tourist hotels and restaurants and provision of
transport facilities to tourists.
20. The Bureau may give due regard to the provisions of the Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 in
the exercise, performance and discharge of the powers, functions and duties conferred on
or assigned to the Bureau in terms of the provisions of this Part of this Statute.
21 (1) No premises situated within the administrative limits of the Eastern Province shall
be used for the provision of accommodation to tourists unless such premises have
been registered with the Bureau.
(2) The provisions of this Section shall not apply to
(a) any institution or tourist hotel approved under the Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005,
any rest house maintained by a local authority of Eastern Provision or a circuit
bungalow administered by the Government or the Provincial Council ; and
(b) any pilgrims rest in the charge of a religious institutions.
(c) any premises which has more than five rooms
(3) For the purpose of this section “premises” includes a private dwelling house, home
stay lodge or any other similar place that provide accommodation to a tourist.
(4) The Bureau shall be regulations specify the registration fee and the registration
procedure.
Advising the
Minister
Power of Bureau
to give directions
in relation to
employments
Power of the
bureau to engage
in tourism related
business ventures
Bureau to act in
concurrence with
the provsions of
the Tourism Act.
Registration of
tourist
accommodation

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'18
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 18.03.2016
PART IV
STAFF OF THE BUREAU
22 (1) The Minister shall with the written consent of the Bureau, appoint a General Manager
of the Bureau from among persons who hold post graduate qualifications in
management, administration or any other related discipline.
(2) The General Manager shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Bureau.
(3) The General Manager shall, subject to the general direction of the Bureau on matters
of policy, be charged with the direction of the business of the Bureau and the execution
of the powers, functions and duties of the Bureau and the administrative control of
the employees of the Bureau.
(4) The General Manager may attend the meetings of the Bureau and may express his
veiws there at, however shall not have the right to vote.
(5) The General Manager may, with the written approval of the Bureau, delegate in writing
to any other employee of the Bureau such of his powers, fuctions or duties as he
may, from time to time consider necessary, and any employees to whom any such
powers, functions or duties are so delegated shall exercise them subject to the general
or special directions of the General Manager.
(6) The Minister may with the prior written consent of the Bureau and after assigning
reasons therefor in writing remove the General Manager from office.
23 (1) The Bureau may, subject to the other provisions of this Statute
(a) appoint, train, promote, dismiss and exercise disciplinary control over its
employees ;
(b) fix the wags, salary or other remuneration of such employees
(c) determine the terms and conditions of services of such employees ; and
establish work standards for the employees and evaluate performance of such
employees ;
(d) establish and regulate provident funds or schemes for the benefit of such
employees and make contributions to any such fund or scheme.
(2) Regulations may be made by the Bureau in respect of all or any of the matters referred
to in Subsection (1)
(3) At the request of the Bureau any officer in the public service may temporarily be
released and appointed to the staff of the Bureau for such period as may be determined
by the Bureau subject to the provisons provided under establishment procedural
regulations for Eastern Proviincial Public Service.
General Manager
of the Bureau
Appointment of
the Staff of the
Bureau

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'18
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 18.03.2016
8A
PART V
FINANCE
24 (1) The Bureau shall have its own fund
(2) There shall be paid into the Fund
(a) all such sums of money as may be voted upon from time to time by the Provincial
Council for the use of the Bureau.
(b) all such sums of money as may be received by the Bureau by way of charges
and levied for services provided by the Bureau under this Statute.
(c) all such sums of money received by the Bureau in the exercise performance
and discharge of its powers functions and duties under this Statute.
(d) all such sums of money as may be received by the Bureau by way of loans,
donations, gifts and grants from any source whatsoever ; and
(e) However the receipts described under paragraphs (b) (c) and (d) of this sub
section shall first be credited to the Provincial Fund and thereafter paid to the
fund.
(3) There shall be paid out of the fund of the Bureau all such sums of money required to
defray the expenditure incurred by the Bureau in the exercise, perfomance and
discharge of its powers duties and functions under the provisions of this Statute.
25. (1) The financial year of the Bureau shall be the calendar year
(2) The Bureau shall cause proper books of accounts to be kept of the income and
expenditure, assets and liabilities and all other financial transactions of the Bureau.
(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution relating to the audit of accounts of
public corporations shall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Bureau and audit of
accounts of the Bureau shall be carried out by a qualified auditor.
26. The fund of the Bureau shall be maintained in accordance to the provisons provided under
Part III of Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987.
27. (1) The Bureau shall submit to the Minister Audited reports and Administrative Reports
of the year completing the calendar year enable him to place before the Provincial
Council of the Eastern Province not later than three months of the following year.
(2) The Minister shall lay the documents who received under Subsection (1) before the
Eastern Provincial Council as provided.
28. The Bureau may with the consent of the Minister and in accordance with the provisions of
the Section 21 of the Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987 borrow such sums as the
Bureau may require for meeting the obligations of the Bureau in discharging its powers
under  this Statute.
Fund of the
Bureau
Financial year and
audit of accounts
Maintenance of
the fund
Annual Report
Borrowing power
of the Bureau

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'18
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 18.03.2016
PART VI
GENERAL
29 (1) The Bureau may in writing and subject to such conditions as may be specified therein,
delegate to any officer or employees of the Bureau any of its powers, functions or
duties under this Statute or any regulation or rule made there under and any such
officer or employee shall exercise, perform or discharge such power, function or
duty in the name and on behlaf of the Bureau.
(2) The Bureau may, notwithstanding any delegation made under subsection (1), by itself
exercise perform or discharge any power, function or duty so delegated and may at
any time revoke any such delegation.
30 (1) The Minister may from time to time issue to the Bureau such general or special
directions in writing as to the exercise, peformance and discharge of its powers,
functions and duties and it shall be the duty of the Bureau to give effect to such
directions.
(2) The Minister may from time to time direct the Bureau to furnish to him in such form
as has he may require, returns, accounts and any other information with respect to
the work of the Bureau. and it shall be the duty of the Bureau to give effect to such
directions.
31 All members of the Bureau, the General Manager and the officers and servants of the
Bureau shall be deemed to be public officers the meaning of and for the purposes of the
Penal Code.
32 Every person who
(a) obstructs, without any reasonable cause, any person acting in the exercise of his
powers under this Statute or any regulation made thereunder ;
(b) being a person acting under the authority of this Statute, behaves or conducts himself
in a vexatious or provocative manner, while exercising or discharging any power or
function under this Statute.
(c) fails without any reasonable cause to furnish any return or information in compliance
with any requirements imposed on him under the Statute or knowingly makes any
false statement in any return or information furnished by him.
Shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute and shall on conviction after summary trial
before a competent court, be liable to a fine not exeeding fifty thousand rupees.
33 (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of all matters required by this Statute.
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette and shall
come in to operation on the date of such publication, or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon as convenient after its publication
in the Gazette, be brought before the Provincial Council for approval.
Delegation of
powers of the
Bureau
Directions by the
Minister
Members deemed
to be public
officers
Miscellaneous
offences
Regulations

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'18
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 18.03.2016
10A
(4) Any such approval sought to the regulations or not sought as provided under the
subsections (3) shall be published in the Gazette.
(5) Any such regulations which is not sought approval as provided under subsection (3)
shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of its disapproval without prejudice
to any action previously done there under in the Statute, unless the context otherwise
requires.
34. “Minister” means the Minister of the Board of Ministers of the Eastern Provincial Council
to whom the subject of torurism has been assigned.
“Provincial Council” means the Provincial Council of the Eastern Province.
Secretary means the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister of the Board of Ministers of
the Eastern Province to whom the subject of tourism has been assigned.
“National Tourism Authorities” include the Sri Lanka Tourism Develoment Authority, the
Sri Lanka Institute of Tourism and Hotel Management, the Sri Lanka Tourism Bureau and
the Sri Lanka Convention Bureau established by the Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005.
“Local Authority”  includes a Municipal Council, Urban Council and a Pradeshiya Sabha
established under Municipal Councils and Urban Councils Ordinance and Pradeshiya Sabha
Act respectively
“Tourist” includes a Sri Lanka national or a foreign national.
In the event of any inconsistency between the Tamil and Sinhala texts of the Statute, the Tamil
text shall prevail.
04-387
Interpretation
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
Tamil text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency