

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2008
675
675
wxl 1"554 _ 2008 cqks 13 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008'06'13
No. 1,554 – FRIDAY , JUNE 13, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 678
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 679
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication . All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due  regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th June, 2008, should reach the Government Press on
or before 12 noon on 06th June, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.- Part II of the Gazette No. 1,553 of 06.06.2008 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2008
676
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2008
677
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2008
678
Posts - Vacant
DEPARTMENT  OF  ARCHAEOLOGY
(Ministry of Cultural Affairs and National Heritage)
Post of Archaeological Research Assistant
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for
the Post of Archaeological Research Assistant.
01. Educational Qualifications :
1. A graduate of a recognized University with a Special
Degree in Archaeology or History ;
or
2. A graduate of a recognized University with a General
Degree including Archaeology as a subject ;
or
3. A graduate of a recognized University.
02. Other Qualifications .– Six Months training experience in
any field in the subject of Archaeology from a recognized Institute.
N. B. – Any document or a copy should not be enclosed with the
application and relevant documents should be presented at the
interview.
03. Age Limit.– The applicants  should not be less than 18 years
and not more than 45 years of age as at closing date. (The upper age
limit will not apply to those already in the Government/Provincial
Government Service.)
04. Salary Scale.– Rs.15,215 - 10 x 215 - 4 x 240 - 7 x 320 - 15
x 360 - Rs. 25,965 (Per Month)
(MN 4- 2006 A)
05. Efficiency Bar.– Should pass the Efficiency Bar Examination
with the period of 3 years.
06. The method  of enrolling to the service .– The qualified
applicants will be enrolle by a structural interview.
07. Terms of Engagement :
i. This post is permanent. Pensionable.
ii. Appointees should contribute to Widow/Widower and
Orphans’ pension fund.
iii. Section from 10 to 12 in Chapter II of Establishment
Code shall apply.
08. Applications completed according to the specimen
application appended.– Below using both sizes in  A4 Size Paper
should be forwarded by registered post to reach the Director
General, Department of Archaeology, Sri Marcus Fernando
Mawatha, Colombo 07 on or before 15.07.2008. The envelop
containing the application should be marked with “Application for
the Post of Archaeological Research Assistant” on its top left corner.
Officers in the Public Service should forward their applications
through the Head of their respective Departments/Institutes.
Belated applications, applications which do not contain  requisite
qualifications and incomplete applications will be rejected without
any notice and the complaints regarding that the applications have
been lost in the post will be considered.
Dr. S
ENARATH DISSANAYAKE,
Director General,
Department of Archaeology.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
Post of ………………
Department of Archaeology
1. Name with initials :–––––––––.
2. Full Name :–––––––––.
3. Permanent Address :–––––––––.
4. Residence District :–––––––––.
5. Divisional Secretary’s Division :–––––––––.
6. i. Date of Birth :–––––––––.
ii. Age as 15.07.2008 :–––––––––.
7. Telephone Number :–––––––––.
8. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––.
9. Male/Female :–––––––––.
10. Nationality :–––––––––.
11. Whether Married/Single :–––––––––.
12. Educational Qualifications :
i. Degree :–––––––––.
ii. Year :–––––––––.
iii. General/Special :–––––––––.
iv Subjects :–––––––––.
v. Results :–––––––––.
vi. Medium :–––––––––.
vii. University :–––––––––.
13.
Institute The state of training Period Certificate

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2008
679
14. If the applicant is in the Service of Government or Local
Bodies;
i. Department/Institute  :–––––––––.
ii. Designation :–––––––––.
iii. Period of service :–––––––––.
iv. Whether the applicant in qualified for his pension :––.
I declare the above mentioned details are true and correct
according to my knowledge and belief. I agree to cancel or dismiss
from the service of any detail above mentioned is holds according to
the conditions and regulations regarding this vacancy.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
Recommendation of the Head of the Department/Institute.
I hereby certify that Mr/Miss/Mrs. ………………… is an
employ of this Department/Institute and it he/she could be/could
not be releases if selected.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of
Department, /Institute
Date :–––––––––.
Name :––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
(Official Stamp)
06-281
MINISTRY  OF  LAND  AND  LAND DEVELOPMENT
Survey Department
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the
Trainee Grade in the Posts of Sri Lanka Technological
Service
APPLICA TIONS are invited from the qualified citizens of Sri Lanka
for the competitive examination to be held for recruitment to the
Trainee Grade in the following posts of Sri Lanka Technological
Service in the Survey Department.
Post No. of Vacancies
(01) Draughtsman 100
(02) Litho Printer 06
(03) Remote Sensing Technician 01
02. Nature of the Service :
(01) Draughtsman :
The job involves map production are related technical work,
preliminary and final work on Surveys and maintenance of
records in relation to it... etc.
(02) Litho Printer :
The job involves the printing of maps, produced by the
Survey Department, according to the Litho Offset Method
as well as by other technical methods with proper quality
control.
(03) Remote Sensing Technician :
The job involves the obtaining data by interpreting aerial
and satellite photos, map production and computerizing of
data.
Selection of all these posts will be made from one and the  same
examination.
03. Method of Recruitment  .– Candidates who are qualified on
the results of a written test will be selected in terms of the Public
Administration Circular No. : 15/90 and the relevant circulars.
04.  Procedure of Examination  :- The Examination consists of
two question papers.
i. Intelligence.
ii. Technological Paper.
05. Syllabus :-
I. Intelligence .– One hour - (100 marks)
This paper is framed with the objective of testing the candidate’s
power of rational thinking, power of analysis and decision making.
II. Technological Paper :- Two Hours - (100 Marks)
* Mathematics :
Algebra (Inequalities, Variables, Series, Logarithm)
Trigonometry (Equations, Solving of Triangles) Statistics
(Mean, Mode, Standard Deviation) Probability
* Physics :
Light and Optics (Reflection and Refraction :- Mirrors,
Curved Surfaces, Prisms, Lenses, Formulas of Optics,
Microscope and Telescope)
Newtonian Mechanics (Scalars and Vectors, Newton’s
Law of Motion, Momentum)
* Miscellaneous Topics :
Introduction to Geography (shape of the Earth,
Topography etc.)
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2008
680
The angle view of Solid Substances and Derivation of
Projections.
* Draughtsmanship
06. The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
Mediums and the candidate is at liberty to sit the  examination in
any one of these languages. A candidate has to answer all the  Papers
in the Same language at the examination. Candidates will not be
permitted to change the Medium of language, they have selected in
the application later.
07. Procedure of Selection :-
* Candidates should secure 40% or more Marks at the
open competitive examination so as to qualify from one
paper.
* From amongst the successful candidates, those securing
the highest aggregate marks in both papers at the
examination will be called for an interview according to
the existing number of vacancies, for scrutinizing the
qualifications. Marks will not be allotted at the interview.
* If there are candidates scoring the same highest marks,
among those who have secured the highest aggregate marks
in both papers and having fulfilled the requisite
qualifications, in such instances, the highest marks scored
by them in the paper No. II will be taken into
consideration.
* Assignment to the posts will be made out in the order of
the highest aggregate marks obtianed by the  candidates in
both papers and also according to the preference of posts
indicated in the application. When the vacancies in the
each post are filled, second and third options of the
remaining candidates will be taken into consideration.
08. Terms of Employment :-
This post is permanent and pensionable. Appointment will be
made subject to probationary period of three years. The selected
candidates should be prepared to serve in any part of the Island.
The appointment will be given according to the General Conditions
applicable for appointments to the post in the Public Service
published as the beginning of this Gazette Notification.
09. Procedure of Application :-
(a) The application  should be prepared by the applicant
himself on a paper size 21 x 29 cm (A4) using both sides
as per the specimen application form appearing at the
end of this notice. From No. 01-07 should appear on the
front page, 08-13.1 appear on the second page, 13.2-16
appear on the third page and No. 17-19 appear on the
fourth page.
(b) Completed applications should be sent by registered post
to reach the Surveyor General, Survey Department, P. O.
Box. 506, Kirula Road, Narahenpita, Colombo 05 on or
before 13.07.2008. (Applications should not be sent to
the personal name or to any other address.) On the top
left hand corner of the envelope containing the application
“An Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to
the Trainee Grade in the Posts of Sri Lanka Technological
Service” to be cleary mentioned.
(c) Candidates who are already employed under the Public
and Provincial Public Services should forward their
applications through the Heads of their Departments while
the candidates employed under the Public Corporations
and Local Bodies, etc. should forward their applications
through the Heads of their Institutions before the closing
date of application.
(d) Applicants should prepare their applications in the
medium in which they are appearing for the examination.
(e) The applications which are incomplete and not in
accordance with the specimen application and not having
required qualifications and also that are received after the
closing date of application will be rejected without any
notice.
(f) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. The
complaints to the loss of  applications in the post will
not be considered. The examination fee will not be
refunded under any circumstances.
10. Educational Qualifications :-
(a) Should have passed the G . C. E. (A/L) examination in
three (3) Science subjects in one sitting including two
subject relevant to the field, and the G. C. E. (O/L)
examination in six (6) subjects in not more than two
sittings with credit passes for Laguage or Literature,
Mathematics, Science and for one another subject;
or
(b) Should posses a National Certificate in Technology (a
three year part time training course) relevant to the field,
awarded by a Technical College, recognized by the
Government or have successfully completed the one year
full time training course in Draughtsmanship and obtianed
the relevant certificate, along with the basic educational
qualifications mentioned in above “A”.
Note - Among those who qualify for the Trainee Grade in the
Technological Service at the Open Competitive Examination, namely,
(i) The candidates with the qualifications mentioned in the
above para  “a” will be placed at the initial step within the
salary scale of Class II “B” after successfully completing
and passing the two year theoretical and  practical training,
gained according to the syllabus framed relevant to the
service.
(ii) The candidates with the qualifications mentioned in the
above para “b” will be placed at the initial step within the
salary scale of Class II “B” after successfully completing
and passing the one year thoretical and practical training,
gained according to the syllabus framed relevant to the
service.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2008
681
11. Salary Scale :-
Trainee Grade :
1st year - Monthly Rs.12,920.00 In terms of the provision
2nd Year - Monthly Rs.13,040.00 09 of para. 14 of the P. A.
Circular No. 06/2006 (II)
Class III : Monthly Rs.15,005 - 4 x 180 - 6 x 240 - 11x320 -
20 x 360 - Rs. 27,885 (MN - 3-2006A)
Class II : Monthly Rs.15,005 - 4 x 180 - 6 x 240 - 11 x 320 -
20 x 360 - Rs. 27,885 (Starting from salary step 12) (MN-3-2006A)
Class I : Monthly Rs.15,005 - 4 x 180 - 6 x 240 - 11 x 320 -
20 x 360 - Rs. 27,885 (Starting from salary step 23) (MN-3- 2006A)
Special Class  : Monthly Rs.20,030 - 11 x 365 - 18 x 500 -
Rs. 33,045 (MN-7-2006A)
12. Age Limit :- Should not be less than 18 years and not more
than 45 years of age on the closing date of application. (The
maximum age limit will not apply to the candidates who are already
in the Government Service and Provincial Government Service).\
13. Examination Fee :-
(a) Examination fee is Rs.300. A candidate shall pay this amount
to the District Office of Superintendent of Surveys in the
District where he/she resides or to any other District Office
of Superintendent of Surveys. The receipt obtained for
paying the examination fee should be affixed  to the specified
place on the application. The applications without cash
receipts will be rejected.
Locations of Supt. of Surveys’ Offices at which the
payments can be made :
Colombo, Kalutara, Gampaha, Galle, Matara, Hambantota,
Monaragala, Badulla, Ampara, Kandy, Matale, Nuwara
Eliya, Ratnapura, Kegalle Anuradhapura, Polonnaruwa,
Kurunegala, Puttalam, Jaffna, Vavuniya, Batticaloa,
Trincomalee, Diyatalawa (Institute of Surveying and
Mapping)
14. Towns and their numbers where the examination will be held
are as follows.
Town/District Names Town/District Nos.
Colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Kandy 04
Matale 05
Nuwara Eliya 06
Galle 07
Matara 08
Hambantota 09
Kurunegala 10
Puttalam 11
Anuradhapura 12
Polonnaruwa 13
Badulla 14
Moneragala 15
Ratnapura 16
Kegalle 17
Ampara 18
Batticaloa 19
Trincomalee 20
Jaffna 21
Vavuniya 22
However in case there are examination centers without having
sufficient number of candidates, in such instances, such centers
will be called off and the candidates in such centers will be assigned
to the nearest examination center. The examination will be held by
the Surveyor General and the date of the examination will be notified
later.
15. Admission to the Examination :- In accordance with the
applications submitted to the Surveyor General, the admission
cards will be posted to the address given in the applications of all
candidates who have complied with the required basic qualifications.
A candidate appearing the examination should produce his/her
admission card to the supervisor at  the exmination center. A
candidate without the admission card will not be permitted to sit
the examination and also a candidate should sit the examination
only at the examination hall stipulated to him/her.
Note :- The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily  mean that he/she has the requisite qualifications to sit
for this examination or complied with the requisite qualifications
for this post.
16. Identity of the candidate  :- Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each paper they appear. For this purpose any of the
following documents will be accepted.
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of persons.
(b) A Valid Postal Identity Card issued by the Post Master
General.
(c) A Valid Passport. (issued within the period of three years
on the date of examination)
17. Attestation :- Candidate’s identity should be attested by a
Head of Government School, justice of the Peace, Commissioner of
Oaths, Attorney at law, a Commissioned Officer of the Army or Air
Force, a Police Officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service,
a permanent Government Officer in the Tertiary Level or Senior
Level in terms of the grading of employees in the P. A. Circular
No.06/2006.
18. Furnishing False Information :- If a candidate is found
unqualified to sit for this examination, his/her candidature is liable
to be cancelled prior to the examination, while  holding the
examination or subsequent to the  examination or at any time
thereafter. Even after the recruitment to the service, if a candidate is
 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2008
682
found to have furnished  any false information knowingly or a
candidate has deliberately cancealed any important information,
he/she shall be liable to dismissal from state service.
19. Every candidate must have fulfilled all the necessary
qualifications required for the post prior to the closing date of
applications for the examination.
20. Candidates will be required to submit the following
documents whenever requested.
(i) Certificate of birth
(ii) Educational Certificates
(iii) A Grama Niladhari Certificate obtianed recently
(iv) Two character certificates
(v) A copy of the electoral register (Only if required)
N. B.- Documents or their copies should not be attached to the
application.
21. Assignment to the respective posts will be made depending
on the existing vacancies and according to the marks secured at the
examination.
22. Any matter not covered by these conditions will be
determined at the discretion of the Surveyor General.
B. J. P. Mendis,
Surveyor General.
Survey Department,
Colombo 05,
23rd of May 2008.
Specimen  Application  Form
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Trainee
Grade in the Posts of  Sri Lanka Technological Service in the
Survey Department
For Official use only
(Indicate the Code/No. in the given cage)
(Please see the para No.14 of the instructions for towns where
the examination is held)
01.0 Name of the town you wish to apply for the examination.
Town No. Name of the Town
(Assignment to the each post will be made depending on the
existing vacancies and according to the marks secured at the
examination)
2.0 Name with initials : (Mr/Mrs./Miss) :
(i) In Sinhala :––––––––,
(ii) In English :––––––––,
2.1 Names denoted by initials (in legible letters)
(i) In Sinhala :––––––––,
(ii) In English :––––––––,
3.0 Permanent Address (in legible letters)
3.1 Administrative District for which the address belongs to
(Please see the para No.14 of the instructions)
District No : Name of the District
4.0 Sex : (Male -M, Female - F)
5.0 Medium of language you wish to sit this examination :
(Sinhala - S, Tamil - T, English - E)
6.0 Ethnicity:
(Sinhala - 1, Sri Lankan Tamil - 2, Muslim - 3, Indian Tamil
- 4, Burgher - 5, Malay - 6, Other - 7)
7.0 Do you have eligibility under the para No. 10 of the Gazette
Notification ? :––––––––,
Yes N o
8.0 The post you are applying - (to be mentioned as 1,2,3 in
the order of your preference and it cannot be changed later)
(i) Draughtsman
(ii) Litho Printer
(iii) Remote Sensing Technician
(Assignment to the cash post will be made depending on the
existing vacancies and according to the marks secured at the
examination)
9.0 Divisional Secretariat Division :––––––––,
9.1 Grama Niladhari Division :––––––––,
9.2 The date from which you are residing in the District:––,
10.0 Citizenship :––––––––,
By descent
By registration
11.0 National Identity Card No :

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2008
683
12.0 Date of birth :
Year:–––––––,       Month:––––––, Date:–––––,
12.1 Age as at the closing date of the application.
Years :––––––,      Months:––––––, Days:––––––,
13.0 Educational Qualifications :
13.1 The details of G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
First Attempt :
(i) The year and month of the examination :––––––––,
(ii) Index No :––––––––,
(iii) Subject Passed :––––––––,
Subject Grade Subject Grade
15
26
37
48
13.2 The details of G. C. E. (O/L) examination :
Second Attempt :
(i) The year and month of the examination :––––––––,
(ii) Index No. :––––––––,
(iii) Subjects passed :––––––––,
Subject Grade Subject Grade
15
26
37
48
13.3 The details of G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
(i) The year and month of the examination :––––––––,
(ii) Index No :––––––––,
(iii) Subjects passed :––––––––,
Subject Grade
1
2
3
4
14.0 Other Qualifications :––––––––,
15.0 Have you ever been convicted in a court of law for a criminal
offence? :
Y es                                    No
15.1 If yes, furnish particulars :––––––––,
16.0 District Survey Office to which the payment made :–––,
Receipt No. :––––––––,
Date paid :––––––––,
(The receipt has been affixed to page No. 04)
17.0 Certificate of the candidate :
(a) I declare that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge.
(b) I am also aware that if any information given by me
herein is found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to
disqualification if detected before selection and to
dismissal from service, if detected after appointment.
(c) I agree to abide by the rules and regulations of this
examination.
(d) The cash receipt obtained for the payment of Rs.300 as
an examination fee has been pasted into the specified
place below.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant
Date :––––––––,
18.0 Attestation of the Candidate’s Signature :-
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss................................. who is
submitting the application is personally known to me and that
he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on ...............................
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
Date :––––––––,
Name of the Attestor :––––––––,
Designation :––––––––,
Address :––––––––,
19.0 Recommendation of the Head of the Department :
This Officer can be/can not be released from service, if selected
for this post.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department
Date :––––––––,
(Affix the cash receipt firmly here)
06-175

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2008
684
LIST OF TECHNICAL COLLEGES
Serial T echnical College Address District
No.
01 Sri Lanka Technical College Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10 Colombo
02 Galle Technical College Kaluwella, Galle Galle
03 Kandy Technical  College Aruppola, Kandy Kandy
04 Jaffna Technical College Browns Road, Jaffna Jaffna
05 Badulla Technical College Greenlane Drive, Badulla Badulla
06 Kegalle Technical College Kachcheri Road, Kegalle Kegalle
07 Anuradhapura Technical College Ne w Town, Anuradhapura Anuradhapura
08 Kurunegala Technical College Puttalam Road, Kurunegala Kurunegala
09 Ratmalana Technical College Galle Road, Ratmalana Colombo
10 Ampara Hardy T echnical College Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Ampara
11 Matara Technical College Meddewatta, Matara Matara
12 Sammanthurai Technical College Ampara Road, Sammanthurai Ampara
13 Kalutara Technical College Kalamulla, Kalutara Kalutara
14 Ratnapura Technical College Palm Gardens, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Ratnapura
15 Warakapola Technical College Ambagala Road, Warakapola Kegalle
MINISTRY OF VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL
TRAINING
Department of Technical Education and Training
REGISTRATION OF EXTERNAL RESOURCE PERSONS AS
LECTURES/INSTRUCTORS 2008/2009 ACADAMIC YEAR
APPLICATIONS are invited for the registration of External
Resource Persons as Lectures/Instructors in the Technical Colleges
under this Department by the Principals of Technical Colleges,
indicated in the Schedule given at the end of this notice.
02. Specimen application and list of subjects for which External
Resource Persons are required, can be obtain from the Principal of
the Technical College where you wish to serve by sending him a self
addressed stamped envelop (9'' x 4''). The top left - hand corner of
the envelop should be marked “External Resource Persons”. These
particulars may also be obtained from the Pricipals in person.
03. The last date for obtaining these particulars will be 11th
July 2008.
04. General Information of Applicant :
(i) Applicants should note to give all particulars regarding
their qualifications and experience in the Educational,
Professional and Technical fields.
(ii) Fees:
Fees payable to External Resource Persons vary from
Rs.125 to Rs. 250 per hour in accordance with their
experience, qualifications and level of the course they are
selected to serve.
(Note : These Fees are subjected to be amended).
(iii) Forwarding of Applications :
Applications from officers in the public service should
be  forwarded through the Heads of their Departments/
Institutes with an endoresement by the respective Heads
to the effect that their selection of the applicant as an
External Resource Persons will not affects their normal
duties.
(iv) Selections :
Selections for these registrations will be may subsequent
to interview conducted by the Principals of the respective
Colleges. Preference will be given to applicants with
experience in teaching. Please note that the registration
can be terminated according to requirements of the College,
by the Principal, without giving any reasons and at any
time during the Academic Year.
(v) Registered External Resource Persons should conduct
internal examinations in their respective subjects.
05. These registration are valid only for without additional
remuneration.
The Academic Year 2008/2009 and may be terminated even
earlier in accordance with the requirements.
06. If an applicant  wishes to apply for more than one subject,
separate applications should be sent for each such subject. All
applications should be sent to Principal of the appropriate Technical
College under registered cover to reach him before the closing date
specified by him.
Dr. H. L. O
BEYSEKERA,
Director General,
Department of Technical Education
and Training.
P. O. Box 557, Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2008
685
16 Kuliyapitiya Technical College Pannala Road, Kuliyapitiya Kurunegala
17 Pathadumbara Technical College Navayalatenna, Katugastota Kandy
18 Nuwara-Eliya Technical College Jayathilaka Mawatha, Nuwara- Eliya Nuwara- Eliya
19 Homagama Technical College Godagama, Homagama Colombo
20 Beliatta Technical College Puwakdandawa, Beliatta Hambantota
21 Hasalaka Technical College Yodha Ela Road, Hasalaka Kandy
22 Dambulla Technical College Matale Road, Dambulla Matale
23 Balapitiya Technical College W andaduwa Station Road, Balapitiya Galle
24 Wariyapola Technical College Chilaw Road, Wariyapola Kurunegala
25 Batticaloa Technical College  Manchantuduwai, Batticaloa Batticaloa
26 Bandarawela Technical College Wewethenna, Bandarawela Badulla
27 Monaragala Technical College Sirigala, Monaragala Monaragala
28 Gampaha Technical College Werellawatta, Yakkala Gampaha
29 Trincomalee T echnical College Mihindupura, Trincomalee Trincomalee
30. Dehiattakandiya Technical College Mahawanawela Dehiattakandiya Ampara
31 Matale Technical College M. C. Road, Matale Matale
32 Weerawila Technical College New T own, Weerawila Hambantota
33 Medagama Technical College Medagama Monaragala
34 Polonnaruwa Technical College Vidyapura, Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa
35 Embilipitiya Technical College New Town, Embilipitiya Ratnapura
36 Vavuniya Technical College Mannar Road, Vavuniya Vavuniya
37 Akkaraipattu Technical College Akkaraipattu Ampara
38 Anamaduwa Technical College Gamuda Bhumiya, Thammennagama Puttalam
Anamaduwa
06-278
Serial T echnical College Address District
No.
EXAMINATION FOR PROMOTION OF  OFFICERS IN CLASS II OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS’
SERVICE TO CLASS I - 2008
 IT is hereby notified that the qualifying examination for promotion of officers in Class II of Public Management Assistants’ S ervice to
Class I will be held in the three languages i.e. Sinhala, Tamil and English languages by the Commissioner General of Examinations in
September 2008.
2.0 Examination for promotion of officers in Class II of Public Managment Assistants’ Service to Class I will be held at the Centers
in Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, Anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura
and Killinochchi. The towns and their numbers are given below :
Town Town Number
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
Trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
Anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
Any centre without a sufficient number of candidates will be cancelled.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2008
686
3.0 (i) This examination will be held by the Commissioner General of Examinations and candidates are bound by the rules and
regulations stipulated by him in respect of holding this examination.
(ii) A set of rules and regulations for the candidate is published separately in the Gazette notification. Any candidate who
violates these rules and regulations will be liable to a punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
4.0 Candidates are required to satisfy following qualifications to sit the examination :
(i) Should be an officer who has completed as active service of ten years (10) in Class II of Public Management Assistants’
Service and a satisfactory service of five (05) years as at the closing date of applications.
(ii) Should have passed the efficiency bar examination held for officers in Class II of Public Managment Assistants’ Service.
Note :- The date of the examination will be reckoned as the date on which the candidate who passes the examination qualifies
for promotion to Class I of the Service. However, any candidate who  passes the examination without possessing above
qualifications will be treated as disqualified for promotion to Class I.
5.0 Scheme of Examination.– Candidates should sit a written examination consisting of following subjects :
Subject Marks Duration
(i) Establishments Procedure 100 1 1/2 Hours
(ii) Public Financial Management 100 1 1/2 Hours
(iii) Case Study 100 01 Hour
(iv) General Paper 100 01 Hour
Total 400
Establishment Procedure : A practical knowledge on matters contained in V olume I and II of the Establishments
Code is expected of the candidate.
Part I - 08 questions that require short answers (25 marks).
Part II - Answers should be supplied to 03 out of 04 semi structured type questions
(75 marks).
Public Finance Management :- The objective of this paper is to test the following. It consists of two parts.
(a) Practical knowledge on financial regulations
(b) Basic knowledge on auditing
(c) Basic bank practice
(d) Basic knowledge on store keeping
Part I - 08 question that require short answers (25 marks).
Part II - Answers should be supplied to 03 out of 04 semi structured type questions.
(75 marks).
Case Study Candidates are required to answer a multiple choice/semi structured essay type paper
designed to analyze measures to be taken to a problem relating to office administration.
Cases for study will be provided and the questions to be answered will be as follows :
Part I - 05 Multiple choice type questions (05 marks).
Part II - 05 question that require short answers (05 marks).
Part III - 05 semi- structured type questions.  (90 marks).
General Paper : The objective of this paper is to test the general knowledge of the candidates
on current affairs, both local and international.
Part I - 32 multiple choice type questions (16 marks).
Part II - Short notes should be provided under two topics out of the four (04) given
(36 marks).

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2008
687
Part III - Answers should be provided for 02 essay type questions out of the four (04)
given (48 marks)
Note (i) Candidates should answer these papers in the language medium of entry to the
service or any other official language.
(ii) Candidate should score a minimum of 40 percent (40%)of marks in each subject
and an aggregate of 160 or more to pass the examination.
6.0 Commissioner General of Examination will issue results of the examination to the Director General of Combined Services.
Accordingly, names of successful candidates will be published in the Gazette Notification of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka.
07. Applications should be in the form of the specimen appended to this notification and should be prepared by the candidate him/
herself. Application prepared thus by the candidate should be sent through the respective head of department by registered post  to the
Commissioner General of Examinations, Organizations and Foreign Examination Branch, Sri Lanka Examinations Department, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla, so as to reach him on or before 14th July 2008. A certificate to prove the satisfactory service of the officer sh ould be sent
along with the application. The respective head of Department should satisfy him/herself that the application has been perfecte d
accurately and the service certificate has been duly signed by him/herself. The top-left corner of the envelop containing the a pplication
should clearly bear the name of the examination. Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
08. Identification of Candidates - Candidates are required to prove their identity in the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they appear. For this purpose, any one of the following documents should be submitted to the superv isor.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons;
(ii) A valid Passport.
Candidature of any candidate who fails to submit any one of the above can be cancelled by the Commissioner General of
Examinations, at his discretion.
09. Applications - Application form should be prepared on a paper of A4 size in such a way that numbers 1.1up to 1.9 appear on
the first page. Application form may be typewritten but should be filled clearly and legibly by the candidate himself in his ow n
handwriting. It is compulsory to indicate the title of the examination appearing the specimen in English  language, too, on both Sinhala and
Tamil application forms.
Candidates who are sitting this examination for the first time need not to pay examination fees. However, at consequent sitting s,
candidates are required to paste stamps to the value of Rs.90 on the application for each sitting, and to cancel them duly by p lacing
signature and date. Under no circumstances, this fee will be refunded or transferred in respect of another examination.
The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue admission cards along with copies of the time table to all candidates who
have submitted duly completed applications before the closing date. Candidates should get their signatures on admission cards a ttested
in advance and surrender to the supervisor of the examination hall. Candidates will not be permitted to sit the examination wit hout
admission cards. A candidates who does not receive his/her admission card at least seven days (07) before the day of examination, should
at once, notify the Commissioner General of Examinations, Organizations and Foreign Examination Branch Sri Lanka Examinations
Department, Pelawatta, Battaramulla (Telegraphic Address “Exams” Battaramulla) with the following particulars.
(i) Name of the Examination ;
(ii) Full Name of the Candidate ;
(iii) Full Postal Address ;
(iv) Date of posting the application, Registration number and the Post Office.
10. Heads of Departments should grant duty leave to candidates to whom admission cards have been issued by the Commissioner
General of Examinations enabling them to present themselves at the examination. Traveling expenses will not be paid in this res pect.
11. For the purpose of the official language policy,  all the candidates are required to prepare and perfect their own applications in
the official language.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2008
688
Town No.Town
12. The decision of the Director General of Combined Services will be final in respect of any matter not provided for in this
examination notice.
A. Nobert,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration,
and Home Affairs,
Independence Square
Colombo 07.
28th May 2008.
Specimen Application Form
(For Office use Only)
Examination for Promotion of Officers in Class II of Public Management Assistant’s Service to Class I- 2008
Language Medium of Examination
Sinhala 2/Tamil - 3 /English -4 (Indicate (Indicate the town and the corresponding
the relevant number in the cage. It will No in which  you intend to sit the examination,
not be allowed to change this subsequently) as per para 2.0 of the gazette notification).
1.0 1.1 Nmae with Initials : Mr/Mrs/Miss :–––––––––.
(in English block Capitals) eg. SUNIL, A. B.
1.2 Name with Initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
1.3 Names denoted by Initials :–––––––––.
(in English Block capitals)
1.4 Names  denoted by Initials :–––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.5 Have you changed your name after entering the public Service? if so, indicate the previous name :–––––––––.
1.6 Place of work and Address :–––––––––.
1.6.1 Name and the Address of Office/Department/Institution ………………… (In English Block letters)
1.6.2 Name and the Address of Office/Department/Institute .............................. (In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.7  Sex : Female - I, Male - 0 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage.
1.8 Date of Birth :–––––––––.                   Year:–––––––––.               Month:–––––––––.                 Date:–––––––––
.
1.9 National Identity Card No.:
2.0 Present Post:
2.1 Post........................................................
2.2 Number and the date of the Appointment Letter :–––––––––.
2.3 Date of Entry to class II of the above Service :–––––––––. Year:                             Month:             Date:
2.4 Have you earned all increments during the period of your service? if not, give particulars :–––––––––.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2008
689
2.5 If you have suffered any punishment whatsoever state particulars in brief :–––––––––.
2.6 If you have been released for service in a corporation  or any Statutory Board, furnish such particulars :–––––––––.
2.7 If You have availed not pay leave for employment abroad or any other purpose, furnish such particulars :–––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time? :–––––––––.
3.2 If not, value of the stamps (affixed) :–––––––––.
3.3 Stamp Cage :–––––––––.
If you are not sitting the examination for the first time, affix stamps to the value Rs.90
4.0 Declaration of candidate
I do hereby declare that,
(i) The above particulars furnished by me are true and correct to my knowledge and faith and,
(ii) I am an of ficer in class II of Public Management Assistants’  Service and I have been appointed to class II of Public
Management Assistant’s Service on..... and,
(iii) I have completed a 10 years active period of service as at 14th July 2008 and 5 years satisfactory period of the service
on that date and,
(iv) I am sitting the examination for the first time/stamps to the prescribed value have been affixed.
I am also aware that any particulars contained herein are found to be false and incorrect, I am liable to disciplinary
action taken against me. I agree to be abide by the rules and  regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations on conducting of this examination.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the candidate
(See the foot note)
Date :–––––––––––.
Note : 1. Period of service in class II/IIA of General Clerical Service or its parallel Services before obsorption to the public
Managment Assistant’s Service should be taken into account when computing the period of service in class II of
Public Management Assistants’ Service.
2. The applicant should place his/her signature in the presence of the relevant Head of Department or an Officer
authorized to do so on behalf of him.
Attestation of the Signature
I hereby certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss …………………………… serves at my office is personally known to me and that he/she
signed in my presence on ……………………………………………….
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the person attesting.
Name :–––––––––;
Designation :–––––––––;
Address :–––––––––;
Date :–––––––––.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2008
690
RECRUITMENT  OT  THE  POST  OF  SPEECH
THERAPIST  IN  THE  MINISTRY  OF  HEALTHCARE
AND  NUTRITION
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Speech Therapist in the
hospitals coming under the Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
Applications as per the specimen Provided herewith should be
sent under registered cover to reach the Secretary Ministry of
Healthcare and Nutrition Suwasiripaya No.385 Ven. Baddegama
Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10 on or before 18.07.2008.
The words “post of Speech Therapist”  should be clearly indicated
on the top left hand corner of the envelope in which the application
in enclosed.
02. Salary Scale :- Rs.15,260 - 6 x 180 - 4 x 240 - 11 x 320 -
20 x 360 - Rs. 28, 020 (In terms of General Circular No. 06/2006
(iv) - MT 5
03. Age Limit :- Should be not below 18 and over 45 years of age.
(Maximum age limit will not applicable to officers who are already
in the public service).
04. Educational Qualifications  :- 02 Years fulltime Diploma
Certificate from a recognized University, on Speech Therapy,
05. Terms of Engagement :-
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable should
contribute to the Widows/Widowers’ and Orphans
Pension Fund,
(ii) In terms of PublicAdministration Circular No. 07/2007
of 28.05.2007 the applicant should obtain and efficiency
in other official languages in addition to the official
language within 05 years from the date of recruitment
to the service.
06. Method of recruitment  :- Applications are called through a
Government Gazette Notification/News paper advertisement and
selection will be made on the highest marks scored in the competitive
examination comprises of the following subjects.
General Knowledge 100 Marks
Aptitude Test 100 Marks
07. Those who are already in the public service should forward
their applications through the respective  Heads of Departments.
08. Examination Fees :- Every applicant should pay examination
fees of Rs.250 by a money order drawn in favour of “Secretary,
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition, “Suwasiripaya” No. 385,
Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansha Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10 and
encashable from the General Post Office Colombo. The money
order should be sent attached to the application and the examination
fees once paid will not be refunded under any circumstances.
09. Application and any other relevant documents should be
addressed to the Secretary Health in the following address and
should not be addressed personally to any other officer of the
Ministry.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
I certify that,
(i) Mr./Mrs/Miss ……………………………………………… has completed a 10 years period in class II of
Public Management Assistants’s Service as at 14th July 2008 and, He/she has fulfilled the qualifications
required for the examination as per the notification published in the Gazettes of Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka on ………………………………………………
(ii) Number of  the appointment letter of class II is ……………………… (Indicate number of the appointment
letter) as per his/her personal file and,
(iii) The particulars furnished above chapter 1.0 to 4.0 by him/her have been checked and found to be correct and,
(iv) He/she is sitting the examination for the first time/prescribed stamps for the relevant examinations have been
affixed.
(Delete words inapplicable)
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department and official frank.
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
06-230

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2008
691
10. Application will not be acknowledged. Applications which
are not conform to the requirements of this notice in every manner,
will be rejected.
Dr. H. A. P. Kahandaliyanage,
Secretary,
Ministry of Helthcare and Nutrition.
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition,
“Suwasiripaya”,
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansha Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
26th May, 2008.
Specimen Form of the Application for the Post of Speech
Therapist in the Department of Health Services
01. 1.1 Name with initials :–––––––.
(In English Block Letters)
1.2 Namein Full :–––––––.
(In English Capital)
1.3 Name in Full :–––––––.
(In Sinhala or Tamil)
02. Address :
2.1 Personal (In English Block Letters) :–––––––.
2.2 Personal (In Sinhala or Tamil) :–––––––.
2.3 Official :–––––––.
(In English Block Letters)
2.4 Official :–––––––.
(In Sinhala or Tamil)
(The Officers in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service/
Corporation should indicate their official address and any change of
same should be informed with immediate effect).
03. 3.1 Date of Birth :–––––––.
3.2 Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years :–––––.     Months:–––––.    Days:–––––.
04. National Identity Card Number :–––––––.
05. Sex :–––––––.
06. Educational Qualifications :–––––––.
07. Experience :–––––––.
Work Station: Period of Service:
From:     To:
08. Details of the Receipt paying Examination Fees :
(i) The Post Office paying the Examination Fees :–––––.
(ii) Receipt Number and Date :––––––.
(iii) Amount Paid :–––––.
Affix the Receipt here firmly
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I know I will be disqualified and
dismissed without compensation if any information contained herein
are found to be false or incorrect after the appointment.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date:–––––––––.
Recommendation of Head of the Department :
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department and
Designation.
Date :––––––––.
06-187
PRINTED A T THE DEPATMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.