

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.01.2022
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2263$23 - 2022 ckjdß ui 21 jeks isl=rdod - 2022'01'21
No.  2263/23  -   fridAy,   jANuAry  21,   2022
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
PARLIAmENTARY  ELECTIONS  ACT  No. 1 Of 1981
Notice under Subsection 8 (9)
THE Schedule hereto lists the Orders issued under Subsection 8 (9) of the Act for recognition as a political party by the 
election commission under the Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 1 of 1981.
On the order of the Election Commission,
 
 
Saman Sri ratnayake,
 Commissioner General of Elections.
Elections Secretariat,
Sarana Mawatha, rajagiriya,
21st january 2022.
1A-   G 35865 — 60  (01/2022)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.01.2022
2A
SCHEdulE
 Orders issued under Sub-section 8 (9) of the Act relating to the provisions of Section 7 of the Act with respect to 
the recognition as a political party under Sub-section 8 (9) of the Parliamentary Elections Act No. 1 of 1981
Documents to be submitted as
per statutory provisions Criteria
1. The party constitution 1.1. shall be based on objectives related to political activities.
1.2. shall provide for the appointment, removal and disciplinary action of 
members and office - bearers in a manner that safeguards the principles of 
natural justice and democracy.
1.3. Shall clearly state the manner in which the party constitution is amended;
1.4. Shall specify the time frames for convening General Meetings and Special 
General Meetings;
1.5. Shall not include provisions or clauses that may form the basis for social 
divisions such as race, religion, caste, or tribe.
2. Office Bearers 2.1.       Woman representation in one of the major positions in the office bearers 
should be enshrined in the party constitution.
2.2. The representation of women in the office - bearers should have been  
confirmed within a period of 4 years prior to the last date for calling  
applications for party registration.
2.3.  If there are officers / members in the office bearers who are of other parties  
not in an alliance, information about them should be submitted.
3. reports on the Audited Accounts 3.1.        reports on the Audited accounts for four years prior to the closing date for 
applications for party registration should be submitted.
3.2. Statements of accounts submitted as per 3.1 above, should have been 
audited by a registered Auditor.                 
4. Current policy statement of the
     party
         
4.1. The policy statement ought to have been essentially formulated in such a 
manner so as to achieve the objectives set out in the party constitution.
4.2. The policy statement must have been approved by a simple majority of 
the central committee/office bearers of the party.
5. Political activities 5.1.    Must be actively engaged basically in democracy, suffrage, the rule of 
law and the rights of the people of the country.
5.2. Must have been involved in political activities for at least 4 years before 
the last date for submission of applications to be recognized as a political 
party. during those 4 years, at least 5 political activities should have been 
done each year, and at least two of those five political activities must have 
been major political activities.
      5.2.2 major Political Activities
i. A  political Party that has submitted applications for recognition must have  
contested any election in any given year within a period of four years,  
independently or fielded their candidates in alliance with another recognized 
political party by way of a Memorandum of understanding.
 When the Election period spans over two consecutive years, both years are 
treated as having contested the election, and such treatment is subject to 
conclusive  confirmation that the election was contested alone or in alliance 
with a recognized political party or parties.
 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.01.2022
3A
ii.  if a political party has held its annual conference and district assemblies 
in a given year, and established branch societies, it is considered to be a 
major political activity inthe relevant year.
iii.  Printing of newspapers or magazines continuously for the last four years by 
a party that engages in political activity to propagate its own party policies 
and political activism is considered a major political activity.
iv.  Must be engaged throughout the relevant year in various national activities 
acceptable to the Election Commission on any national or social issue.
v.  it is considered a major political activity to have implemented a continuous 
program throughout the year to publicize the policy statements, principles 
and ideas of the relevant political party island - wide throughout the country.
     5.2.3.Other political activities
i.  Active involvement in party or opposition activities related to government 
policy is considered another political activity
ii.  Active advocacy for public rights is deemed as another political activity
iii.  The conduct of various educational programs or other activities related to 
democracy, the right to vote, the protection of the rule of law in the country 
or any other related activities are considered as other political activities.
iv.  Creating awareness among party activists and the people ongaining  
governing power in the country is considered another political activity.
v.  The functions of the candidates of the party that won the election, within 
the institution of people’s representation to implement the policies of the 
party are also considered as political activities of the party for the respective 
year.
vi.  if an organization continues to maintain professional, youth, women's 
movements affiliated there to and prove that the organization is led by the 
party; such work is considered yet another political activity of the relevant 
party.
vii. Although the publication of party ideologies through social networking  
personal accounts or limited groups in the name of the party is a political function  
relevant to each year it is not considered a major political function. The 
content of the social media accounts maintained in the personal name of the 
party activists can be obtained as evidence of the activities of the party, but 
the maintenance of the accounts in that personal name cannot be considered 
as an activity of the party.
viii.  Although issuance of announcements by the print electronic media or 
social networks on a regular basis or holding regular press conferences in 
the name of the party by a specific leader or an official of the party by a 
specific leader or an official of the party may be considered as one of the 
activities of the party for each year, issuing press releases or holding press 
conferences alone without public participation or any activity on the ground 
is not considered a continuous political activity.
 
 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.01.2022
4A
ix.  Making written submissions to the competent authorities on matters of 
National or international importance alone is not considered a political 
activity of the party. However, in such cases, the regular submission of 
such letters is treated like press releases issued in the respective year.
x.    receiving invitations or attending to other political parties’anniversaries 
or annual conventions, or attending public events or government meetings 
is not considered a political activity of the party.
xi.     Activities related to the subject alone of organizations that are organized 
solely for one area, such as the environment,religion, welfare, social  
services, and trade unions, cannot be considered as continuous political 
activities. if anorganization has carried out environmental or welfare or 
social service or several professional or other activities and other polit-
ical activities in a single year, those environmental activities or welfare 
activities or social service activities or professional activities done during 
the year can be considered as one political activity pertaining to that year. 
further, when activities are carried out in several such areas along with other  
political activities, the activities relevant to each field are taken together 
and considered as separate activities for each field.
xii.   if an organization shows involvement in social service or social welfare 
activities or environmental protection as part of political activities. Only 
if they are carried out covering the entire island or at least covering an 
entire electoral district or administrative district. for example; Engaging 
in social work for only a few villages in a single electoral district cannot 
be considered a political activity.
6. documents to be submitted 6.1.  it is mandatory to submit formal documents/reports in proof of the  
activities aforesaid whenever demanded by the Election Commission.
EOG 01-0208    
 
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.