

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of December 18, 2015
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 21. 12. 2015)
MICROFINANCE
A
BILL
to provide for the licensing, regulation and supervision of companies
carrying on microfinance business; the registration of non-governmental
organizations accepting limited savings deposits as microfinance
non-governmental organizations; for the setting up of standards for the
regulation and supervision of microfinance non-governmental
organizations and micro credit non-governmental organizations and to
provide for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
Ordered to be published by the Minister of National Policies and
Economic Affairs
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 21.00 Postage : Rs. 20.00

<!-- page 2 -->

1Microfinance
Short title
and date of
operation.
2—PL 009646—475  (01/2016)
5
15
10
20
L. D.—O 32/2012.
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE LICENSING, REGULATION AND SUPERVISION
OF COMPANIES  CARRYING  ON MICROFINANCE  BUSINESS ; THE
REGISTRATION OF NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS ACCEPTING
LIMITED SAVINGS DEPOSITS AS MICROFINANCE NON-GOVERNMENTAL
ORGANIZATIONS; FOR THE SETTING UP OF STANDARDS FOR THE
REGULATION AND SUPERVISION OF MICROFINANCE NON-GOVERNMENTAL
ORGANIZATIONS  AND  MICRO  CREDIT  NON -GOVERNMENTAL
ORGANIZATIONS AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH
OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Microfinance Act, No.
of 2016 and different Parts of this Act shall come into
operation on different dates as the Minister may appoint by
Order published in the Gazette.
2. (1)The provisions of this Act shall not apply to-
(a) a licensed commercial bank or a licensed
specialized bank within the meaning of the
Banking Act, No.30 of 1988;
(b) a finance company within the meaning of the
Finance Business Act, No.42 of 2011;
(c) a co-operative society registered under the Co-
operative Societies Law, No.5 of 1972 and a
co-operative society registered under a Statute
of a Provincial Council;
(d) a divineguma community based bank and a
divineguma community based banking society
established under the Divineguma Act, No.1
of 2013; and
Applicability
of Act.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Microfinance
5
15
10
20
25
30
(e) an entity formed in terms of the Agrarian
Development Act, No.46 of 2000.
(2) The provisions of this Act, other than Part VIII, Part IX
and Part XI, shall not apply to a microfinance non-
governmental organization and a micro credit non-
governmental organization.
PART I
L
ICENSING OF COMPANIES CARRYING ON MICROFINANCE BUSINESS
3. Save and except as provided for in section 2, a person
shall be eligible to apply for a licence under this Act, if such
person is a company registered under the Companies Act,
No.7 of 2007 not being a company limited by guarantee, a
private company, an offshore company or an overseas
company.
4. (1) Every application for a licence shall be made to
the Board in compliance with such requirements, in such
form, accompanying such information and the evaluation
fee as may be specified by the Board from time to time by
rules made in that behalf.
(2) The Board may, on receipt of an application under
subsection (1), make such enquiries and call for such further
information and documents as it considers necessary and on
being satisfied that –
(a) the applicant has complied with all the requirements
laid down by the Board by rules made in that behalf;
and
(b) the issue of a licence to the applicant would not be
detrimental to the interests of its creditors and other
stakeholders,
it may issue a licence subject to such terms and conditions
as the Board may think fit or, where it is not so satisfied,
reject the application and issue such direction as it deems
necessary.
Licensing
requirement
to carry on
microfinance
business.
Licensing
procedure.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Microfinance
5
15
10
20
25
   5. A licence issued by the Board shall be in such
form as may be specified by the Board by rules made in
that behalf and shall remain in force until the thirty-first
day of December next following the date on which the
licence is granted and shall be renewable annually upon
a fresh application being made.
6. Every licensed microfinance company shall pay an
annual licence fee in such amount as may be specified by
the Board from time to time by rules made in that behalf.
7. Every licensed microfinance company shall exhibit
its licence at its principal place of business and a copy of
such licence at every one of its branches.
8. The Board shall maintain a register of licensed
microfinance companies.
PART  II
B
USINESS RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSED MICROFINANCE COMPANIES
9. (1) A licensed microfinance company may carry on
such forms of businesses as set out in the Schedule to this
Act and any other form of business as may be specified by
the Board under subsection (2) subject to such restrictions
and conditions as may be imposed by or under any written
law or specified in the licence issued to such licensed
microfinance company.
(2) The Board may specify by notification published in
the Gazette any form of business that a licensed microfinance
company may carry on which is not set out in the Schedule
to this Act.
(3) A licensed microfinance company shall not carry on
any form of business that is not set out in the Schedule
hereto or specified by the Board under subsection (2).
(4) Every notification published in the Gazette under
subsection (2) shall, as soon as convenient, be brought before
Form and
duration of
licence.
Licence fee.
Exhibiting
the licence.
Board to
maintain a
register.
Forms of
business to
be specified.
30

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Microfinance
5
15
10
20
25
30
Parliament for approval.  Any notification which is not
so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded from the
date of such disapproval but without prejudice to
anything previously done thereunder.
(5) Notification of the date on which a notification is
deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
PART  III
M
ANAGEMENT OF LICENSED MICROFINANCE COMPANIES
10. (1) The general superintendence and management
of the affairs of a licensed microfinance company shall vest
in the board of directors of the company, which shall manage
the business and affairs of such company in good faith and
in the best interest of its depositors, creditors and other
stakeholders.
(2) A licensed microfinance company shall maintain a
register containing the names of members of the company,
members of the board of directors and of the chief executive
officer.
PART  IV
D
IRECTIONS TO AND RULES GOVERNING LICENSED MICROFINANCE
COMPANIES
11. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other written
law, the Board may issue directions to licensed microfinance
companies or to any single licensed microfinance company
or to any group or category of  microfinance companies
(referred to as “company” in this section) as to the manner in
which any aspect of the business and corporate affairs of
such  company are to be conducted, and in particular –
(a)   the terms and conditions under which deposits may
be accepted by such company, the maximum rates
of interest payable on such deposits, the maximum
Directions of
the Board.
General
superintendence.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Microfinance
5
15
10
20
25
30
period for which deposits may be accepted and
the maximum amount that may be deposited with
a company in the name of one person in one or
more accounts;
(b)  the terms and conditions under which any loan,
credit facility or any type of financial
accommodation may be granted by such company,
the maximum rates of interest that may be charged
on such loans, credit facilities or other types of
financial accommodation, and the maximum
periods for which any such loan, credit facility or
other type of financial accommodation may be
granted;
(c) the maximum rates which may be paid to, or charged
by, such company by way of commissions,
discounts, fees or other receipts or payments
whatsoever;
(d) the terms and conditions under which investments
may be made by such company and the maximum
permissible maturities of such investments;
(e) the minimum amount of core capital and total
capital to be maintained;
(f) the establishment of a reserve fund, minimum
percentage of annual after-tax profits that a
company shall transfer to such fund and other
operational aspects of such fund;
(g) the minimum ratio which capital of a company
should bear to the assets and the total deposit
liabilities of such company;
(h) the minimum ratio which the liquid assets of a
company should bear to the total deposit liabilities
of such company;

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Microfinance
5
15
10
20
25
30
(i) the maximum ratio which total outstanding
deposit liabilities should bear to the total
outstanding accommodation of such company;
(j) the minimum ratio which the outstanding
accommodation granted to low-income persons and
to micro enterprises by the company shall bear to
the total outstanding accommodation granted by
such company;
(k) the establishment of a deposit insurance fund and
the premium  such company shall transfer to such
fund and the other operational aspects of such fund;
(l) internal controls, risk management and a code of
corporate governance to be adopted by such
company;
(m) a code of conduct to be adopted by such company;
(n) criteria to assess the fitness and propriety of
directors, the chief executive officer and key
management personnel of, and persons with
specified shareholding in, such company;
(o) restrictions on the structural changes to corporate
or business affairs of such company;
(p) the grounds upon which a person shall be
disqualified from being appointed or elected or from
holding the post of a director, chief executive
officer, secretary or key management personnel of
such company;
(q) the requirement for obtaining prior approval of the
Director for appointing, electing or nominating
directors of such companies; and
(r) the requirement for obtaining prior approval of the
Director for appointing the chief executive officer
and key management personnel of such company.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Microfinance
5
15
10
20
25
30
For the purpose of this section –
“key management personnel” means a person
having authority and responsibility for
planning, directing and controlling the
activities of any finance company directly or
indirectly including any Director (whether
executive or otherwise) of such company;
“specified” means specified by the Board by rules
made in that behalf.
12. (1) The Board may issue guidelines to the Director
on the manner of monitoring compliance with the directions
issued under Section 11.
 (2) Where a licensed microfinance company fails to
comply with any direction issued under section 11, the
Director shall, unless otherwise provided for in any
guidelines issued under subsection (1), report such fact to
the Board and thereupon the provisions of  Section 17 of
this Act shall apply accordingly.
13. (1) The Board may, from time to time, make rules
on any matter in respect of which rules are authorized or
required to be made under this Act.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by subsection (1), the Board may, in particular,
make rules in respect of all or any of the following matters:-
(a) criteria for licensing under this Act;
(b) evaluation fee for an application for a licence as a
microfinance company;
(c) annual licence fee payable to the Board by
microfinance companies;
(d) forms to be used for the purposes of this Act.
Monitoring
compliance
with
directions.
Board  may
make rules.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Microfinance
5
15
10
20
25
(3)  Every rule made by the Board under this Act shall
be published in the Gazette.
PART  V
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND AUDIT OF LICENSED MICROFINANCE
COMPANIES
14. (1) Every licensed microfinance company shall at
the expiration of each financial year prepare in accordance
with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, financial
statements including-
(a) a statement of financial position as at the end of the
financial year; and
(b) a statement of comprehensive income in respect of
such financial year.
(2) The financial statements prepared by a licensed
microfinance company shall be audited by a qualified
auditor.
(3) The financial year of a licensed microfinance company
shall commence from first of January, every year.
(4) Every licensed microfinance company shall transmit
to the Director within three months after the closure of each
financial year-
(a)  audited financial statements including –
(i) the statement of financial position of the
company as at the end of the financial year;
(ii) the statement of comprehensive income of
the company for that financial year;
(b) the auditor’s report in respect of the financial
statements;
Financial
year and audit
of accounts of
a licensed
microfinance
company.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Microfinance
5
15
10
20
25
30
(c) the report by the directors relating to the state of
affairs of the company; and
(d) a certified copy of the auditor’s confidential letter,
if any, to the board of directors of the company.
(5) Every licensed microfinance company shall exhibit
documents specified in paragraph ( a) of subsection (4) in a
conspicuous place of each of its places of business until
those documents for the succeeding financial year are
prepared and exhibited.
(6) The Board may specify the forms of the financial
statements referred to in this Part and any disclosure
requirements to be made and where such forms are specified,
financial statements of every licensed microfinance
company shall be prepared in such form.
(7) Unless otherwise determined by the Board, the
financial statements of a licensed microfinance company
shall be signed, on behalf of such company by the chief
executive officer and two members of the board of directors.
PART VI
E
XAMINATION AND SUPERVISON OF LICENSED MICROFINANCE
COMPANIES
15. (1) The Director or any officer of the Central Bank
authorized by him, or any other person authorized by the
Director with the approval of the Board, may at any time
examine the books of accounts and records of any licensed
microfinance company and for that purpose may do one or
more of the following:-
(a) require any licensed microfinance company, or
a director, secretary, manager, employee,
auditor, agent or contractor of any licensed
microfinance company to furnish him all such
information as he may consider necessary and
Examination
and
supervision
of licensed
microfinance
companies.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Microfinance
5
15
10
20
25
30
to produce for inspection books, records, files,
registers, and such other documents, maintained
in print or electronic form, of such licensed
microfinance company and to provide
authenticated copies in any form as required of
such books, records, files, registers and such
other documents;
(b) enter the premises or storage area of any licensed
microfinance company, and notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in any other law, examine
books, records, files, registers, and such other
documents, maintained in print or electronic form,
of such licensed microfinance company and may
obtain copies, authenticated or otherwise, in any
form of such books, records, files, registers and such
other documents;
(c) require any licensed microfinance company or a
director, manager, employee, agent, contractor or
secretary of any licensed microfinance company to
submit the accounts of such licensed microfinance
company, furnish such information and produce
such books, records, files, registers, and such other
documents, maintained in print or electronic form,
for audit by an auditor authorized by the Director;
(d) question and record statements of or, if necessary,
direct any director, shareholder, secretary, manager,
employee, agent, auditor or contractor of any
licensed microfinance company and of any other
person who may be acquainted with or is aware of
or is in possession of, information regarding the
business or corporate affairs of such licensed
microfinance company to submit answers to the
questions raised by way of an affidavit or if
necessary administer oath or affirmation in
accordance with the Oaths and Affirmation
Ordinance (Chapter 17) and cause questions to be
asked and record or cause the recording of
statements;
35

<!-- page 12 -->

11Microfinance
5
15
10
20
25
30
(e) call for information by notice in writing from any
person who may be acquainted with or is aware of
or is in possession of or appears to have information
regarding the business or corporate affairs of any
licensed microfinance company and if required
summon such person for an interview;
(f) require any related party of a licensed microfinance
company to furnish information as the Director may
consider necessary and to produce for inspection
books, records, files, registers and such other
documents maintained in print or electronic form,
of such related party and to provide authenticated
copies in any form as required of such books,
records, files, registers and such other documents.
For the purposes of this paragraph “related party”
means holding company, any subsidiary or associate
company of any licensed microfinance company, or
any subsidiary or associate company of the holding
company of any licensed microfinance company, or
any other entity or individual that in the view of the
Director has a substantial financial interest or
significant management interest in any licensed
microfinance company.
 (2) The cost of such examination may be recovered from
the licensed microfinance company.
 (3) It shall be the duty of every person to comply with
any requirement imposed on him under this section and any
person who –
(a) fails to provide any information or produce for
inspection any book, record, file, register or such
other document, material or object required under
this section;
(b) fails to attend in person when summoned for an
interview;

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Microfinance
5
15
10
20
25
(c) provides false or incomplete or incorrect
information, book, record, file, register or such other
document, material or object; or
(d) obstructs the Director or any person authorized by
the Director under subsection (1) in the performance
of any function thereunder,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
(4) The Director shall upon the conclusion of the
examination conducted in terms of subsection (1), submit a
report to the Board if such examination reveals that the
licensed microfinance company-
(a) is carrying on its business adopting unsound or
improper financial practices which are detrimental
to the interests of its depositors, creditors and other
stakeholders; or
(b) has contravened or failed to comply with any
provisions of this Act, or any direction, rule, order
or requirement made or imposed thereunder.
16. (1) Where the Board, on a report made by the Director,
is of the opinion that a licensed microfinance company –
(a)  is carrying on or is in the process of carrying on its
business following unsound or improper financial
practices which are detrimental to the interest of its
depositors, creditors and other stakeholders; or
(b)  has contravened or failed to comply with any
provisions of this Act or any direction, rule, order
or requirement made or imposed thereunder,
the Board may do any one or more of the following:–
(i) direct such licensed microfinance company
to cease any such practice;
Supervisory
measures of
the Board on
licensed
microfinance
company.
30

<!-- page 14 -->

13Microfinance
5
15
10
20
25
30
(ii) direct such licensed microfinance company
to, forthwith or within such period as may be
specified by the Board, comply with the
provisions of this Act, direction, rule, order
or requirement made or imposed thereunder
which such microfinance company has failed
to comply with;
(iii) direct such licensed microfinance company
to take necessary action to correct the
negative conditions resulting from such
practice or contravention;
(iv) restrain any director, manager or controller
of the licensed microfinance company from
carrying out any function in or in relation to
the microfinance company;
(v) direct such licensed microfinance company
to remove any director, manager or employee
of the company within a specified period;
(vi) reorganize the licensed microfinance
company by arranging for the increase of its
capital or reconstitution of the board of
directors or both such measures;
(vii) provide for such arrangements as are
necessary for the amalgamation of the
licensed microfinance company with another
licensed microfinance company or any other
institution that consents to such
amalgamation;
(viii)  appoint a person to manage the affairs of such
licensed microfinance company with a view
to assuring proper conduct of the business of
such licensed microfinance company;
(ix) serve a notice in writing on such
microfinance company requiring it to show

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Microfinance
5
15
10
20
25
30
cause within fourteen days from the date
of the notice why a penalty should not be
imposed on such company, and upon its
failure to show cause within the time
specified therefor or where the cause
shown does not satisfy the Board, impose
a penalty not exceeding rupees two hundred
and fifty thousand payable within such
period as may be specified by the Board.
(2) Any person aggrieved with any order or direction
issued or measure taken under subsection (1), may, before
the expiry of thirty days from the date of the issue of such
order or direction or the date of such measure taken, appeal
in writing to the Board and the Board shall render its decision
within sixty days of receipt of such appeal.
PART VII
C
ANCELLATION OF THE LICENCE AND WINDING UP OF LICENSED
MICROFINANCE COMPANY
17. The Board may cancel the licence of a licensed
microfinance company on any one or more of the following
grounds :-
(a) failing to commence business within nine months
of the issue of the licence;
(b) failing to satisfy any debt incurred by it, on such
debt becoming due for payment;
(c) proposing to make or making any composition or
arrangement with its creditors or going into
liquidation or being wound up or otherwise
dissolved;
(d) ceasing to carry on microfinance business;
(e) acting in contravention of any provisions of this
Act or any direction, requirement, rule, order,
Grounds for
cancellation
of a licence.

<!-- page 16 -->

15Microfinance
5
15
10
20
25
30
determination issued, imposed or made under
this Act;
(f) failing to pay the annual licence fee;
(g) carrying on its business in a manner likely to be
detrimental to the interests of its depositors, other
creditors and the economy; or
(h) furnishing false, misleading or inaccurate
information or concealing or failing to disclose
material facts to the Board.
18. (1) The Board shall, before cancelling the licence
of a licensed microfinance company, serve a notice in writing
on such licensed microfinance company requiring it to show
cause within thirty days from the date of such notice being
served as to why its licence should not be cancelled.
(2) Where the licensed microfinance company fails to
show cause within the specified period the Board may cancel
the licence.
(3) Where in compliance with the notice issued to it under
subsection (1), such licensed microfinance company, shows
cause within the specified period, the Board may, after
considering the reasons provided and hearing the licensed
microfinance company in support of its objections –
(a) not cancel the licence, if it is satisfied that such
microfinance company has shown sufficient cause
as to why its licence should not be cancelled; or
(b) cancel the licence, if it is satisfied that such licensed
microfinance company has not shown sufficient
cause as to why its licence should not be cancelled.
(4) In the event of cancellation of a licence, the
licensed microfinance company concerned shall be
notified forthwith of such cancellation and the
cancellation shall take effect from the date of such
Procedure
for
cancellation
of licence.

<!-- page 17 -->

16 Microfinance
5
15
10
20
25
30
notification.  The Board shall publish a notice of such
cancellation at least in one each of Sinhala, Tamil and
English daily newspapers circulating in Sri Lanka.
(5)  Where the licence of a licensed microfinance
company is cancelled, the Board shall remove the name
of such licensed microfinance company from the register
maintained under section 8 and may issue such directions
to such microfinance company as it considers necessary,
including directions for winding up.
(6) Where such microfinance company fails to comply
with any directions issued under subsection (5) within the
time specified by the Board, the Board may require the
Director to file action for the winding up of such
microfinance company under section 19.
19. A competent court may, on an application made by
the Director, order the winding up of such microfinance
company and accordingly the provisions of the Companies
Act, No.7 of 2007 relating to winding up of companies
subject to the supervision of court shall mutatis mutandis
apply to and in relation to the winding up of such
microfinance company.
PART  VIII
M
ICROFINANCE NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS
20. (1) A non-governmental organization registered
under the Voluntary Social Service Organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No.31 of 1980 is eligible
to apply for a certificate of registration as a microfinance
non-governmental organization (hereinafter referred to as
the “microfinance NGO”).
(2) Every application for a certificate of registration as a
microfinance NGO shall be made to the Registrar of Voluntary
Social Service Organizations (in this Part referred to as the
“Registrar”) in such form and in compliance with the
Winding up.
Non-
governmental
organization
to apply for
a certificate
of
registration.

<!-- page 18 -->

17Microfinance
5
15
10
20
25
30
requirements for such registration, together with such
information, as may be specified by the Registrar from
time to time by rules made in that behalf.
(3)  The Registrar may, on receipt of such application,
make such enquiries and call for such further information
and documents as he considers necessary and if he is
satisfied that-
(a) the applicant has complied with the criteria for
registration as may be laid down by the Registrar
from time to time by rules made in that behalf; and
(ii) regi stration of the applicant would not be
detrimental to the interests of its creditors and other
stakeholders,shall issue a certificate of registration
as a microfinance NGO,
subject to such terms and conditions as the Registrar may
think fit  or where he is not so satisfied, reject the application
and issue such directions as he may deem necessary.
21. Every microfinance NGO shall exhibit its certificate
of registration at its principal place of business and a copy
of such certificate at every one of its branches.
22. The Registrar shall maintain a register of
microfinance NGOs.
23. (1) The Registrar may make rules for the purpose of
carrying out the provisions of this Part and to give effect to
standards, principles and guidelines issued by the Board in
terms of Part IX of this Act.
(2)  Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by subsection (1), the Registrar may, in particular,
from time to time make rules in respect of all or any of the
following matters:–
(a) criteria for registration under this Part of this Act ;
(b) annual registration fee payable to the Registrar by
a microfinance NGO;
Registrar to
make rules.
Register of
microfinance
NGOs.
Exhibiting
the
certificate.

<!-- page 19 -->

18 Microfinance
5
15
10
20
25
30
(c) reporting and disclosure requirements of a
microfinance NGO;
(d) terms and conditions for  loans and credit
facilities to be granted by a microfinance NGO
including maximum rates of interest that may be
charged on such loans and credit facilities;
(e) terms and conditions on  savings mobilization and
the maximum rates of interest payable on such
savings;
(f) the maximum ratio of outstanding deposits to
outstanding loans;
(g) number of borrowers and depositors;
(h) consumer protection;
(i) net assets to be maintained by a microfinance NGO;
(j) internal controls, risk management and a code of
corporate governance to be adopted by a
microfinance NGO;
(k) the types of activities that may be carried on by a
microfinance NGO;
(l) forms to be used under this Part.
(3) Every rule made by the Registrar shall be published
in the Gazette.
24. (1) Every microfinance NGO shall prepare and
furnish financial statements in such manner, form and at
intervals or times as may be specified by the Registrar.
(2) The financial statements prepared by a microfinance
NGO shall be audited by a qualified auditor.
25. (1) The Registrar or any other officer authorized in
writing by him in that behalf, may at any time examine the
books of accounts and  records of any microfinance NGO and
for that purpose may do any one or more of the following:–
Duty to
provide
financial
statement.
Registrar
may examine
books of
accounts etc.

<!-- page 20 -->

19Microfinance
5
15
10
20
25
30
(a) require any microfinance NGO, or a director,
manager, employee or auditor of any
microfinance NGO to furnish him all such
information as he may consider necessary and
to produce for inspection books, records, files,
registers, and  such other documents of such
microfinance NGO and to provide authenticated
copies in any form as required of such books,
records, files, registers and  such other
documents;
(b) enter  and examine books, records, files, registers,
and  such other documents of a microfinance NGO
and  may obtain copies, authenticated or otherwise,
in any form of such books, records, files, registers
and  such other documents;
(c) require any microfinance NGO or a director,
manager, employee or auditor of any microfinance
NGO to submit the accounts of such microfinance
NGO, furnish such information and produce such
books, records, files, registers and  such other
documents for audit by a qualified auditor
authorized by the Registrar.
(2) The cost of such examination may be recovered from
the microfinance NGO.
(3) It shall be the duty of every person to comply with
any requirement imposed on him under subsection (1) and
any person who-
(a) fails to provide any information or produce for
inspection any book, record, file, register or such
other  document required under this section;
(b) provides false or incomplete or  incorrect
information, book, record, file, register or such other
document; or

<!-- page 21 -->

20 Microfinance
5
10
20
15
25
30
(c) obstructs the Registrar or any person authorized
by  the Registrar under  subsection (1) in the
performance  of  any function under subsection
(1),
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
26. Where the Registrar is of  the opinion that a
microfinance NGO–
(a) is carrying on or is in the process of carrying on, its
business adopting unsound or improper financial
practices detrimental to the interest of its depositors
and other creditors; or
(b) has contravened or failed to comply with any
provisions of this Act, or any direction, rule, order
or requirement made or imposed thereunder,
the Registrar may take any one or more of the following
actions:–
(i) direct such microfinance NGO to  cease any
such practice;
(ii) direct such microfinance NGO to forthwith
or within such period as may be specified by
the Registrar, comply with the provisions of
this Act or rule, or requirement made or
imposed thereunder which such microfinance
NGO has failed to comply with;
(iii) direct such microfinance NGO to take
necessary action to correct the negative
conditions resulting from such practice or
contravention;
(iv) restrain any director, manager or controller
of the microfinance NGO from carrying out
any function in or in relation to the
microfinance NGO;
(v) remove any director, manager or employee
of the microfinance NGO;
Powers of
the Registrar.
35

<!-- page 22 -->

21Microfinance
5
(vi) re-organize the microfinance NGO by
arranging for the reconstitution of its board
of directors:
Provided however, the Registrar shall,
before taking any of the actions referred
to in subparagraph (iv), (v) or (vi) of this
section, serve a notice in writing on such
director, manager, controller, employee or
the board of directors requiring him or it,
as the case may be, to show cause within
fourteen days from the date of such notice,
why action as referred to in the relevant
subparagraph should not be taken against
him or it, as the case may be, and satisfy
himself that no satisfactory cause has been
made out.
27. (1) The Registrar may cancel the registration of a
microfinance NGO on any one or more of the following
grounds:-
(a) failing to satisfy any debt incurred by it, on such
debt becoming due;
(b) proposing to make or making any composition or
arrangement with its creditors or going into
liquidation or being wound up or otherwise
dissolved;
(c) ceasing to accept limited savings deposits;
(d) acting in contravention of any provisions of this
Act or any direction, requirement, rule, order or
determination  issued, imposed or made under this
Act;
(e) failing to pay the annual registration fee;
(f) carrying on its business in a manner likely to be
detrimental to the interests of its depositors and
other creditors;
Registrar’s
power to
cancel
registration.
10
20
15
25
30
35

<!-- page 23 -->

22 Microfinance
5
10
20
15
25
30
(g) furnishing false, misleading or inaccurate
information or concealing or failing to disclose
material facts to the Registrar.
(2) The Registrar shall, before cancelling the
registration of a microfinance NGO, serve a notice in
writing on such microfinance NGO requiring it to show
cause within thirty days from the date of such notice being
served as to why its registration should not be cancelled.
(3) Where the microfinance NGO fails to show cause
within the specified period the Registrar may cancel the
registration.
(4) Where in compliance with the notice issued to it
under subsection (2), such microfinance NGO, shows cause
within the specified period, the Registrar may, after
considering the reasons provided and hearing the
microfinance NGO in support of its objections –
(a) not cancel the registration, if he is satisfied that
such microfinance NGO has shown sufficient cause
as to why its registration should not be cancelled;
or
(b) cancel the registration, if he is satisfied that such
microfinance NGO has not shown sufficient cause
as to why its registration should not be cancelled.
(5) In the event of cancellation of a registration, the
microfinance NGO concerned shall be notified forthwith of
such cancellation and the cancellation shall take effect from
the date of such notification.  The Registrar shall publish a
notice of such cancellation at least in one each of Sinhala,
Tamil and English daily newspapers circulating in Sri Lanka.
(6) Where the certificate of registration of a
microfinance NGO is cancelled, the Registrar shall remove
the name of such microfinance NGO from the register
maintained under section 22 and may issue such directions
to such non-governmental organisation as he considers
necessary.
Principales,
standards and
Guidelines.

<!-- page 24 -->

23Microfinance
PART IX
PRINCIPLES, STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES LAID DOWN BY THE
BOARD
28. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in this Act or any other written law, the Board may in
order to ensure that microfinance business and lending
activities are carried on in a transparent, professional and
prudent manner and to strengthen, develop and make
qualitative improvements in the regulation and
supervision of such activities for consumer protection,
set principles or standards or issue guidelines in respect
of-
(a) microfinance NGOs regulated by the Registrar of
Voluntary Social Service Organizations in terms of
Part VIII of this Act; and
(b) micro credit non-governmental organizations.
(2) The Registrar of Voluntary Social Service
Organizations shall give effect to the principles, standards
or guidelines laid down by the Board under subsection (1),
by making appropriate rules governing microfinance NGOs.
(3)  Nothing in this section shall be deemed to enable
a non-governmental organization other than one which is
registered in terms of Part VIII of this Act to accept limited
savings deposits.
(4)  The Board may call for monthly, quarterly, semi-
annual or annual financial data of a microfinance NGO
referred to in subsection (1) from the Registrar of Voluntary
Social Service Organizations.
PART X
I
MMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION
5
10
20
15
25
30
Immunity
from
prosecution.

<!-- page 25 -->

24 Microfinance
29. (1) No prosecution shall be instituted in any court
against the Board or a member thereof, the Director or
any officer or servant of the Central Bank or any other
person authorized by the Board or the Director under this
Act to carry out any duty or function, by reason of any
act done or purported to be done, or omitted to be done
by such person under this Act or any direction, rule, order
or requirement made or imposed thereunder unless the
prior written sanction of the Attorney-General has been
first obtained for such prosecution.
(2) Any expenses incurred by a member of the Board,
the Director or any officer or servant of the Central Bank
or any other person authorized by the Board, in any suit
or prosecution brought against such person before any
court in respect of any act which is done or purported to
be done or omitted to be done by such person under this
Act or any direction, rule, order or requirement made or
imposed thereunder, as the case may be, shall if the court
holds that such act was done in good faith, be paid out by
the Board unless such expenses are recovered by him in
such suit or prosecution.
PART XI
G
ENERAL
30. The provisions of the Finance Business Act, No.42
of 2011 and Part IXA of the Banking Act, No.30 of 1988
shall not apply to any licensed microfinance company,
microfinance NGO or micro credit non governmental
oganization.
31. The provisions of this Act or any regulation, order
or rule made under this Act shall have effect notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in any other written law.
32. No person other than a licensed microfinance
company, a microfinance NGO or an institution exempted
from the application of the provisions of this Act under
section 2, shall carry on microfinance business.
The Finance
Business Act
and Part IXA
of the
Banking Act
not to apply.
Effect of
other laws.
Transitional
provision.
Restriction to
carry on
microfinance
business.
5
10
20
15
25
30

<!-- page 26 -->

25Microfinance
33. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
section 32, any person carrying on microfinance business
on the day preceding the date of coming into operation
of any Part of this Act-
(a) may from the date of coming into operation of
any Part of this Act, continue to carry on such
business for a period of eighteen months; and
(b) shall comply with the provisions of this Act and
apply for-
(i) a licence to continue his business as a
licensed microfinance company within such
period as may be specified by the Board by
notice published in the Gazette:
Provided however, notwithstanding Part
VIII of this Act being not operative on the
day when Part I comes into operation, such
person shall comply with the provisions of
this Act and apply for a licence to continue
his business as a licensed microfinance
company within such period as may be
specified by the Board by notice published
in the Gazette;
(ii) a certificate of registration to continue his
business as a microfinance NGO within such
period as may be specified by the Registrar
by notice published in the Gazette;
(c) the period referred to under paragraph (b) above shall
fall within the period referred to in paragraph (a).
34. No person other than a licensed microfinance
company, microfinance NGO or an institution exempted
under section 2 of this Act shall use in its name, the words
“microfinance” or any of its derivatives or its transliteration
or its equivalent in any other language whether alone or in
Restriction
on the use of
the term
“micro
finance”.
Offences.
5
10
20
15
25
30

<!-- page 27 -->

26 Microfinance
combination with any other word, without the prior
written approval of the Board.
35. (1) Any person who contravenes or fails to
comply with any provisions of this Act or any rule,
direction, order or requirement issued or imposed
thereunder shall be guilty of an offence under this Act
and shall be liable on conviction after summary trial
before a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding one million
rupees or to imprisonment of either description for a term
not exceeding one year or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
(2) Where an offence under this Act is committed by a
body of persons, then,-
(a) if that body of persons is a body corporate, every
director, manager, or secretary of that body
corporate;
 (b) if that body of persons is a firm, every partner of the
firm; or
(c) if that body of persons is an unincorporated body
other than a firm, every member of such body,
shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence:
Provided however, that a director, manager or secretary
of such body corporate or a partner of such firm or a member
of such unincorporated body, shall not be deemed to be guilty
of such offence if he proves that such offence was committed
without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence
to prevent the commission of such offence.
 36. (1) Subject to such rules, if any, as may be made by
the Board, the Board may, in writing, authorize an officer of
the Central Bank or any other person to represent the Board
for any of the purposes of this Act, so however, the Board
shall remain and continue to remain responsible for any act
or thing done or omitted to be done by such officer or person
representing the Board under such authorization.
Board to be
responsible
for acts of
officers.
Interpretation.
5
10
20
15
25
30

<!-- page 28 -->

27Microfinance
(2) The Board may in writing delegate to any officer
of the Central Bank any of its powers and duties under
this Act, so however, that the Board shall remain and
continue to be responsible for any act or thing done or
omitted to be done by such officer in the exercise of such
powers delegated to him.
37. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires–
“Board” means the Monetary Board of the
Central Bank of Sri Lanka established
under the Monetary Law Act, (Chapter
422);
“Central Bank” means the Central Bank of Sri
Lanka established under the Monetary Law
Act, (Chapter 422);
“deposit” shall have the meaning assigned to it
under the Finance Business Act, No. 42 of
2011 as may be amended from time to time;
“Director” means the head of the department of the
Central Bank to which the subject of
microfinance companies has been assigned
and includes an acting director;
“licensed microfinance company” means a
company, licensed under this Act;
“liquid assets” means –
(a) cash in hand;
(b) balances in a current or deposit
account in a commercial bank, free
from any bankers’ lien or charge;
(c) Sri Lanka Government Treasury Bills
and Treasury Bonds maturing within
one year, and free from any lien or
charge;
5
10
20
15
25
30

<!-- page 29 -->

28 Microfinance
(d) Sri Lanka Government Securities
maturing within one year and free
from any lien or charge;
(e) Central Bank of Sri Lanka securities
maturing within one year and free
from any lien or charge; and
(f) Such other asserts as may be
determined by the Board;
“microfinance business” means accepting
deposits and providing :-
(a) financial accommodation in any
form;
(b) other financial services; or
(c) financial accommodation in any form
and other financial services,
mainly to low income persons and micro enterprises
in conformity with the Schedule to this Act;
“microfinance NGO” means a non-governmental
organization registered under the Voluntary
Social Service Organizations (Registration
and Supervision) Act, No.31 of 1980 and
issued with a certificate of registration by the
Registrar of Voluntary Social Service
Organizations under this Act to accept limited
savings deposits;
“micro credit non-governmental organization”
means a non-governmental organization
registered under the Voluntary Social Service
Organizations (Registration and Supervision)
Act, No.31 of 1980 and engaged in lending
activities and not permitted to accept
deposits;
“Minister” means the Minister to whom the subject
of microfinance is assigned;
5
10
20
15
25
30
35

<!-- page 30 -->

29Microfinance
“qualified auditor” means –
(a)  an individual who being a member
of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as
an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the
resident partners of which being a
member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law
possesses a certificate to practice as
an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
38. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
SCHEDULE [ Section 9 ]
A licensed microfinance company may engage in the following
businesses :-
(a) to provide financial accommodation, with or without
collateral security, in cash or in kind, subject to such terms
and conditions that the Board may impose for all types of
economic activities including housing;
(b) to accept time and savings deposits and to open, maintain
and manage deposits, savings and other similar accounts
excluding however the carrying on of banking business as
defined in the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988;
(c) to accept pledges, mortgages, hypothecations or
assignments to it of any kind of movable or immovable
property for the purpose of securing loans and advances
made by it;
(d) to provide credit to buy, sell and supply industrial and
agricultural inputs, livestock, machinery and industrial raw
materials, and to act as an agent for any organization for
the sale of such goods or livestock;
(e) to invest its monies prudently;
(f) to provide storage and safe custody facilities;
(g) to provide professional advice to its customers regarding
investments in small businesses, self-employment projects
and cottage industries;
(h) to provide services and facilities to customers to hedge
various risks relating to microfinance;
(i) to render managerial, marketing, technical and
administrative advice to customers and assisting them in
obtaining services in such fields;
(j) to provide technical assistance and training to customers;
(k) to conduct finance leasing business, pawn brokering and
insurance business after obtaining necessary licence or
approval from the relevant authority and subject to such
rules and regulations of such authority;
Sinhala text
to prevail in
the event of
any
inconsistency.

<!-- page 31 -->

30 Microfinance
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .