

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.10.2010
1885
1885
wxl 1"675 - 2010 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'10'08
No. 1,675 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 08, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1888
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 1889
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 15th October, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 01st
October, 2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.10.2010
1886
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.10.2010
1887
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.10.2010
1888
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
KALUTARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 08th November, 201 0.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
16th September, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretariat Division Applications are called applications should be sent
Kalutara Millaniya Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) in Raigam Korale District Secretary/ Additional
Division and Births & Deaths of Yalagala Division Registrar General District Secretariat
Kalutara.
10-327
––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
COLOMBO  DISTRICT
AMENDMENT
THE "Post of Registrar of Mariage (General) for the Ratmalana West (Karagampitiya) Division" which was notified under Ratmalana
Divisional Secretariat Division in the Schedule of the Gazette No. 1,670 dated 03.09.2010 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka is hereby changed as "Post of Registrar of Marriage (General) for Ratmalana area of Colombo Division".

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.10.2010
1889
It is further notified that all other details in the notification concerned remain unchanged.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
20th September, 2010.
10–282
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  EXTERNAL  AFFAIRS
Competitive Examination for Filling Vacancies in the
Public Management Assistants’ Service Cadre in Sri
Lanka Missions Abroad-2010
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited to fill vacancies in the home-
based Public Management Assistants’ Cadre in Sri Lanka Missions
abroad, from eligible officers of the Public Management Assistants
Service, Provincial Public Management Assistants Service and Local
Government Public Management Assistants Service and to sit for
the competitive examination conducted by the Commissioner-
General of Examinations, on behalf of the Ministry of External
Affairs, to be held in Colombo.
2. Eligibility.– Applicants should meet the following eligibility
criteria:
(a) Should be an officer of the Class I or Class II of the
Public Management Assistants Service, or Class I or
Class II of the Provincial Public Management Assistants
Service or the Local Government Public Management
Assistants Service. Officers in other Management
Assistant Services not belonging to the above services
are not eligible to apply.
(b) Age of the applicants should be less than 57 years on
the closing date of applications.
(c) Applicants should have earned on the due dates all the
annual increments, falling within the five years
immediately preceding the date of application.
(d) Should have not been subjected to any form of
disciplinary punishment, other than warning.
(e) At the time of the application, should not be attached
to Sri Lanka Missions abroad.
Note : (i) An applicant who is eligible at the time of
forwarding his/her application and
subsequently promoted to a Class/Grade
higher than Class I of the Public Management
Assistants Service/Provincial Public
Management Assistants Service/Local
Government Public Management Assistants
Service or appointed to a post in any other
service, will cease to be eligible to fill a vacancy
in the Home-Based Public Management
Assistants cadre at Sri Lanka Missions
abroad. It is the responsibility of such
applicant to promptly inform the Secretary,
Ministry of External Affairs in the event of
any change in his/her official status that might
have an impact on his/her eligibility under the
clause (a) of this paragraph.
(ii) Preference will be given to officers with
experience in accounts and establishment work
and have a good working knowledge of English
/ other foreign languages. ( written and
spoken) Working knowledge in other foreign
languages will be considered as an added
qualification.
(iii) Computer skills will be an added qualification
and the extent of such skills must be stated in
the application.
3. Method of Selection.– Selection will be made on the basis of
the written examination to be conducted by the Commissioner-
General of Examinations and  the interview, which will be held in
Colombo.
3.1 Written Examination  :- The written examination will
consist of the following papers each of which will carry
100 marks.
Subject Paper   Duration
No.
01 Financial Systems 2 hours
02 Establishment code & Office Procedure 2 hours
03 English 2 hours
04 General Knowledge  1 hour

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.10.2010
1890
Note : 01. Accounting  – This question paper which will
consist of objective and subject type questions
is set to test the candidate’s practical  knowledge
of financial operations and accounting procedures
of  a Government Institution.
02. Establishment and Office Procedure  – The
question paper will be  set in a manner to let the
candidates select questions of their  choice. The
questions in this objective and structured type
of paper are set to test the candidate’s practical
knowledge of establishment and office procedures
of a Government Institution.
03. English – This question paper is designed to test
the  candidate’s knowledge in comprehension and
written communication.
04. General Knowledge - This paper will consist of
questions on political, social, cultural and
economic environment, history and  geography
of Sri Lanka as well as current international
affairs.
3.2  Interview :
3.2.1. The interview will carry 100 marks and will be
conducted by a Board appointed by the Secretary,
Ministry of External Affairs.
3.2.2. Those candidates who have obtained a minimum
of 40 percent marks in each paper and a total
aggregate of 200 or above at the written
examination will be eligible to be called for the
interview.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4.1 Candidates after being selected to fill the vacancies will
be required to serve initially at the Ministry of External
Affairs in Colombo for a specified period of one year
prior to being posted to a Sri Lanka Mission abroad.  If
the work and conduct of a candidate during this initial
period of service at the Ministry are found to be
unsatisfactory, his/her selection is liable to be cancelled.
    4.2. An officer selected on being posted to a Sri Lanka
Mission abroad, is normally required to serve abroad
for a period of three years on terms and conditions as
stipulated by the Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs
and to enter into an agreement to that effect. On
completion of the term, the officer will have to return
to the Island.
 4.3. The selected officers while serving at a Sri Lanka
Mission will continue to receive their substantive
salaries paid in Colombo.  In addition, the officer will
be paid an overseas allowance during their period of
service abroad.
4.4. The Government of Sri Lanka will meet the cost of air
passage of the selected   officer, from Sri Lanka to the
country of posting and back. Accommodation and other
facilities as determined  by the Secretary, during his/
her service abroad will be met by the Government only
in respect of the officer, his/her spouse and for a
maximum of two children who are under 21 years of
age and dependent on the officer.
5. Method of Application :
5.1 The application forms prepared in an A4 size paper as
per the specimen which is appended to this notification,
containing items from 01-05 on the first page, 06-14
on the second page and the rest on the third page.
Applications which are not in conformity with the
specimen and those not providing the required details
will be rejected without any notice. Applicants are
advised to keep photostat copies of applications.
Applicants should satisfy themselves that their
applications are in conformity of the specimen
application form. Sinhala and Tamil applicants should
indicate the name of the examination in English in
addition to Sinhalese or Tamil.
Candidates should prepare the applications and should
forward through the respective Head of Departments
with the recommendation and endorsement from Head
of Department on the eligibility of the application for
service overseas and the correctness of details given in
the application. The Head of Department should also
state whether the applicant if selected, can be released
immediately from the present post.
5.2. Applications should be forwarded by registered post
to reach the “Commissioner-General of Examinations,
Organization & Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examinations, Pelawatte, Battaramulla”
on or before 08.11.2010 and should be marked
“Examination for Selection of Management Assistants
to fill vacancies in Sri Lanka Missions Abroad” on the
top left hand corner of the envelope.
6. Examination Fees.– Examination fee of Rs. 400/- .should be
paid at any post office  to the credit of Revenue Head 2003-02-13
of the Commissioner General of Examinations, and the receipt
obtained should be pasted in the relevant cage of the application.
Details of the receipt such as number, date, amount and the post
office should be indicated in the relevant cage of the application.
Receipt obtained by paying examination fees through any other
mode or stamps or postal/money orders will not be accepted.  It
will be appropriate to keep a photocopy of the receipt. The
examination fees will not be refunded.
7. Incomplete applications will be rejected.  No allegation that
an application has been lost or delayed in the post will be considered.
Applications received after the closing date will not be accepted.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.10.2010
1891
8. Admission to sit for the Examination.–
8.1. Applications will not be acknowledged.
8.2. The Commissioner-General of Examinations will
forward Admission Cards to  all those applicants whose
applications were accepted.  A candidate presenting
himself/herself for the examination must produce his/
her admission card with attestation of signature to the
Supervisor of the Examination Centre.  A candidate
who fails to produce his/her admission card as
mentioned above will not be permitted to sit for the
Examination. As soon as the admission cards are
dispatched to the candidates a notification to that effect
will be published in the news papers by the Department
of Examinations. As instructed in the notification, the
Department of Examinations should be informed in
case the admission cards of any candidate is not received
within 2 or 3 days after the appearance of the paper
notification. Such applicants should inform the
Department of Examinations about the non receipt of
the admission card with a copy of the application form,
the receipt issued on payment of examination fees and
the receipt issued on the registration of the letter
enclosing the application form. (In case of an appeal
from out station, a fax number should be indicated in
order to send the admission card).
8.3. A candidate must sit for the Examination at the
Examination Hall assigned to him/her.  All candidates
should surrender their admission cards on the first day
of the examination to the supervisor.  A set of rules to
be observed by all candidates is published in the
Gazette. The candidates are subjected to all rules and
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations. If such rules or regulations are violated,
the candidate should have to face penalty imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examinations. Issuance
of admission card to a candidate shall not be in any
way treated as that candidate had satisfied all the
qualifications for the examination.
9. Medium of Examination.– The Examination will be conducted
in Sinhala, Tamil and English medium. Candidates will not be allowed
to change the medium subsequently.
9.1. A candidate is required to answer all question papers
in one language only, except the English Language paper.
10. Penalty for Furnishing False Information :
10.1. If any of the particulars furnished by a candidate are
found to be false within  his/her knowledge, or if he/
she willfully suppressed any material fact, he/she
will be liable for dismissal from the Public Service,
and therefore, he/she will be ineligible  to sit for the
examination.
10.2. If a candidate is found to be ineligible to sit for this
examination at any stage  prior to, during or after the
examination, his/her candidature is liable to be
rejected. The issue of an admission card to a
candidate is not an acceptance of his or her eligibility
to appear for the examination.
11. Identity of Candidate :
11.1. A candidate will be required to prove his/her identity
at the Examination Hall to  the satisfaction of the
Supervisor for each subject he/she offers.  For this
purpose any of the following documents will be
accepted :
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid Passport.
12. Decision of the Secretary of External Affairs will be the final
in this regard.
C. R. J
AYASINGHE,
       Secretary/External Affairs.
Ministry of External Affairs,
P.O. Box 583, Republic Building,
Colombo 01,
24th September, 2010.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
A
PPLICA TION FOR THE COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR FILLING
VACANCIES IN THE PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS' SERVICE CADRE IN
SRI LANKA MISSIONS ABROAD – 2010
PA RT "A"
For Office Use
Medium in which the applicant wishes to sit for the examination
Sinhala - 2,
Tamil - 3,
English - 4.
(Give the relevant number in the Box)
1.0 Name :
1.1   Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
        Eg:  SILV A  M.A.
1.2 Name in full (In English block letters) :–––––––––––.
1.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
2.0 Address: (In English block letters) to which Admission cards
should be sent to :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.10.2010
1892
2.1 Permanent Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
Telephone No :–––––––––––.
2.2 Official Address (In English block letters) :–––––––––.
Telephone No. :–––––––––.
3.0 Sex : Female - 1
Male - 0
(Give the relevant letter)
3.1 National Identity Card No. :
3.2   Date of Birth:
Year : Month : Date :
3.3   Age as at the closing date of application:
Years : Months : Days :
4.0 Service (Public Management Assistants Service/Provincial
Public Management Assistants Service /Local Government
Public Management Assistants Service). (Delete whichever is
inapplicable)
4.1 Date of first appointment to the Public Service/ Provincial
Service/Local  Government Service and Language medium.
(Delete whichever is inapplicable)
5.0 Civil Status (If married – 2, If single – 1)
(Pl. mark the relevant number in the cage)
5.1 If married, number of children.
Their dates of birth and ages :–––––––––.
6.0 If the spouse is employed, give details :–––––––––.
7.0 Educational Qualifications (with language medium) :––––––.
8.0 Date of Promotion to :
8.1 Class II :………….
8.2 Class I :…………..
8.3 The Class to which the applicant is currently attached
and the date of  appointment for the same :–––––––––.
9.0 Present Annual Salary :–––––––––.
10.0 Experience (Give the number of years) :
10.1 Accounts :–––––––––.
10.2 Es tablishment Procedures :–––––––––.
11.0 Proficiency :
Reading W riting Spoken
(a) Sinhala Language
(b) Tamil Language
(c) English Language
(d) Any other Foreign Language
12.0 Ability :
12.1   Typing (Sinhala/Tamil/English) :–––––––––.
12.2   Computer Literacy (Give details) :–––––––––.
13.0 If the applicant has previously served at any Sri Lanka
Mission Abroad, give the name of the Missions with dates :
–––––––––.
14.0 Any other qualifications :–––––––––.
1. Receipt No. :–––––––––.
2. Post Office :–––––––––.
3. Date :–––––––––.
4. Amount :–––––––––.
Note :  The receipt issued by the Post Office on payment of
examination fees  should be affixed here (retain a
photocopy of the receipt).
15.0. Applicant’s Certificate:
I do hereby declare that I have earned all increments falling
due in the 5 years immediately preceding ……………………..
and have not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment,
except warning.  I also declare that to the best of my
knowledge the information furnished in this application is
true and accurate.  If any  information is found to be incorrect
or false, before, during or after the examination, the Secretary,
Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the right to cancel my
candidature/ or appointment.
I also agree to be bound by the rules governing the examination
and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature
prior to, during or after the examination, if it is found that I
am ineligible according to the regulations of this examination.
I further declare that I will be subject rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations in
relation to examination procedure.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :–––––––––.
PA RT "B"
(To be filled by the Head of Department)
I declare that I have verified that Mr./Mrs./Miss……………….,
Class I/Class II of the Public Management Assistants Service/

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.10.2010
1893
Provincial Government Public Management Assistants Service/Local
Government Public Management Assistants Service.
(a) has earned all increments during the 5 years immediately
preceding ………………...
(b) and has not been subjected to any disciplinary
punishment during the 5 years immediately preceding
………………….. and that the information furnished in
the application is true. I hereby certify that the
examination fees have been paid and the receipt is attached
herewith.
Recommendation :
(i) Applicant’s  suitability for service in Missions abroad :
(ii) Whether he/she can or cannot be released, if selected.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department with
the  Official Frank.
Designation :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
10–427
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.