

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
                               Page
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
                               Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 106
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 2"121- 2019 wfm%a,a ui 26 jeks isl=rdod - 2019'04'26                                                                
No. 2,121 - FRIdAy  APRIL  26,  2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  17th May,  2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 03rd May , 2019.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer 
department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B. —  The List of Jurors in Galle - Balapitiya District Jurisdiction Areas in year 2019 has been Published  in Part VI of this  Gazette  in  
Sinhala, Tamil and English Languages.
105-B081516 - 353(2019/04)
Note .-   Mahapola Higher Education Scholarship Trust Fund   (Amendment)   Bill was published as a supplement to the  Part II of the             
Gazette of the Democratic  Socialist   Republic of Sri Lanka of April  18, 2019.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'26
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 26.04.2019
106
miscellaneous Lands notices
PRINtEd  At  thE  dEPARtMENt  OF  GOvERNMENt  PRINtING,  SRI  LANkA.
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/57471.
deputy Land  Commissioner's  No.: EP/28/LB/LS/tri/
kUC/89. 
noTI f IcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe  
LAnD  ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It  is hereby notified that for the Commercial purpose of 
Agriculture, North and East Economic development Center 
has requested on lease a State Land containing in extent about 
Acre 20 (8.09373 Ha.) out of extent marked Lot No. A and  
situated in the village of  thennamarawadi with belongs to 
the thennamarawadi division of coming within the area of 
authority of  kuchchaveli divisional Secretariat in the district 
of trincomalee.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
On the North by : thennamarawadi State Scrab Jungal;
On the East by : Path ;
On the  South by :  thennamarawadi State Scrab Jungal;
On the West by :  thennamarawadi State Scrab Jungal.
the land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the Government has intended to lease out 
the land subject to other Government approved conditions.
 
 (a) Term of the Lease .– Thirty Year (30)  (15.02.2019 
Onwards);
  The Annual  Rent of the Lease. – In the instances 
where the assessed value of the land in the year is 
less than five million rupees (Rs. 5,000,000) 2% of 
the Unimproved value of the land in the said year, as 
per the valuation of the chief valuer. In the instances 
where the assessed value of the land in the effective 
year of the lease in the more than five million rupees 
(Rs. 5,000,000), 4% of the Unimproved value of the 
land in the said year, as a per valuation of the chef 
valuer. the amount of the lease must be revised in the 
every five years and the revision shall add 20% to the 
amount that just preceded.
  
  Premium :- Not levied
(b) the lessee must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop the  said land, in such a manner 
as to captivate the mind of the divisional Secretary.
 (c) this   lessee must not use this land for any purpose 
other than for the purpose of  Agricultural Activities;
  (d) the  lease  must  also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the divisional 
Secretary/Scoping committee/Board of Investment of 
Sri Lanka and  by other  Institutions;
 (e)  the buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair ;
 (f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within 
the specified time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the  lease ;
 
 (g)  No sub -  leasing or can be done until  the expiry  of a 
minimum period of 05 years, For 05.07.2017 ;
 
 (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
  If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in 
writing within six weeks of the date which this Notice 
is published in the Gazette to the effect that this land 
must not be given on lease, the land will be leased out 
as requested. 
  
a. K. N. SewwaNdi amaraSeKara,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner ,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s department,
"Mihikatha Medura",  Land Secretariat,
No. 1200/6,  Rajamalwatta Road, 
Battaramulla.
26th April, 2019.
04-1058