

<!-- page 1 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2007
1361
1361
¡â¤ 1 ,527 _ 2007  ï…Ìæ´Ú 07 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .12.07
No. 1,527 – FRIDAY ,  DECEMBER 07, 2007
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1364
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1369
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 14th December, 2007 should reach the Government
Press on or before 12 noon on 30th November, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
N. B.– Part IV (A) of the Gazette No. 1526 of 30.11.2007 was not Published.
Note.– (i) Industrial Disputes (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 12th October, 2007.
(ii) Termination of Employment of workmen (Special Provisions) (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II
of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 12th October, 2007.
(iii) Penal Code (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka of 26th October, 2007.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2007
1362
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2007
1363
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2007
1364
Posts – Vacant
POST OF REGISTRAR OF BIRTHS MARRIAGES AND
DEATHS OF THE REGISTRAR GENERAL’S
DEPARTMENT - RATNAPURA DISTRICT
Notice of Cancellation
I do hereby cancel the calling of applications for the following Divisions
which appeared in the notification which was published by me in
Para (IIA) of Part - 1 of the Gazette No. 1503 of 22nd of June, 2007
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka calling applications
for the posts of Births, Marriages and Deaths Registrars in the
Ratnapura District in pursuance of the Cabinet decision on
18.04.2007 taken to confirm the Marriages, Births and Deaths
Ragistrars who were on acting capacity.
District Divisional Post and Division for which
Secretariat applications were called
Division
Ratnapura Kolonna Post of Registrar of Marriages
(Kandyan/General) in Kolonna
Korale and Births and Deaths
in Kempane Division.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA ,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 280, Main Street,
Colombo 11.
12-73
NOTICE CALLING FOR APPLICATIONS
Registrar General’s Department
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND HOME
AFFAIRS
POSTS  OF REGISTRARS  GRADE  I OF THE  REGISTRARS  SERVICE
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars Grade I in
the Registrar General’s Department. Applications should be prepared
in according to the specimen appears in this notice and should be
sent to   reach me on or before 24th December, 2007.
02. Terms and conditions of employment :– The post is
permanent and pensionable.
03. Salary and allowances.– The salary scale assigned to this
post is Rs. 22,935-10x645-8x790–17x1,050–Rs. 53,555.
04. Educational and other Qualifications.– Applicants should
have completed minimum of Eight (08) years of satisfactory service
in a Post of Registrar Grade II of the Confirmed Registrar Service, of
the Registrar General’s Department.Who have passed the efficiency
Bar Examination  (The period of service in the Registrar Service prior
to 25.04.1989 is counted as the period of service in Grade II of the
Registrars Service).
Procedure of Recruitment .– Recruitment for these posts will be
made on the results of a Structured Interview Board, appointed by
the Public Services Commission.
05. Applications for this post should be sent through the
Registrar General.
06. Applications and other communications about applications
should be sent to me, and they should not be sent to the personal
name of any officer of this Ministry.
07. General conditions relevant to the appointments in the Public
Service appears at the beginning of Advertising Section of Part I:
(Section IIA) of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka are also relevant to the appointment of these posts.
By order of the Public Services Commission,
Secretary,
Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Colombo 07.
13th day of November, 2007.
REGISTRAR GENERAL’S DEP ARTMENT
MINISTRY  OF  PUBLIC  ADMINISTRATION  AND  HOME  AFFAIRS
Posts of Registrars Grade I
01. I. Last name with initials :–––––—.
II. Names denoted by initials :–––––—.
02. I. Official Address :–––––—.
II. Private Address :–––––—.
03. Ethnic group :–––––—.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2007
1365
04. I. Date of Birth :  Year:––––.   Month:––––.     Day :––––.
II. Age as at closing date of applications :—.
Years : –––––––.    Months : ––––––.  Days : ––––––.
05. I. Present Grade :—
II. Date of appointment to the present grade :—––––.
III. Period of service in the present grade as at the closing  date
of applications :—–––––.
IV . Has there been a break in the service :–––––—.
V . When did you passed the Efficiency Bar Examination :––
.
06. Civil Status :—–––––—..
07. Highest Examination passed and the medium of
instruction :–––––—..
08. Have you earned all of increments’ during the past five years
period :–––––—.—
09. Is any disciplinary inquiry pending against you ? If so, give
details :–––––—.
05. Commendations and Censures :—––––—.
I hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct. I am aware that I will be disqualified
if any particulars furnished by me are found to be false or incorrect
before selection and that I will be liable to dismissal without
compensation whatsoever if the offence is detected after appointment.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––.
Recommendation of the Head of the Department.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature/Official Stamp.
Date :–––––––.
12-179
MINISTRY OF HOUSING AND COMMON AMENITIES
The Post of Still Photographer Grade III
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka
for the post of Still Photographer-Grade III in the Ministry of
Housing and Common Amenities. The Applications made as per the
specimen mentioned below should be sent under registered post to
reach the Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Common Amenities,
Second Floor, Sethsiripaya, Battaramulla on or before 31.12.2007.
The “Post of Still Photographer Grade III” should be marked on the
top left-hand corner of the envelope.
Note: (a) Incomplete applications not made as per the specimen
will be rejected.
(b) Complaints on loss and delay of the applications in
the post will not be considered.
(c ) Officers already in the Public Service should forward
their applications through the Head of Department.
(d) The number of vacancies for this post is 01 (one).
02.Terms of employment and conditions of service for the above
mentioned post:
(a) Post is permanent and pensionable. Will be required to
contribute to the Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme/
Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme. Appointment
is subject to a probationary period of 03 years.
(b) Will be governed by the general conditions relating to the
Public Service appointments indicated at the beginning of
the Para (IIA) of Part I of the Gazette.
(c ) Should obtain the proficiency in the official Language
within the stipulated period in terms of the Official Language
Policy and Public Administration Circular No. 7/2007.
03. Salaries and Allowances - Monthly salary scale attached
to the Post is as follows:
(a) Rs. 14,000-10x120-11x140-6x210-14x290-Rs. 22,060
(Applicable to the Grade III/II “B”).
(b) According to the Public Administration Circular 6/2006
(MTI - 2006);
(c ) Those recruited for the Grade III will be placed on the
initial step of salary scale of Rs. 14,000-10x120–Rs. 15,200
relevant to the Grade III;
(d) Should pass the Efficiency Bar Examination within 3 years
of appointment. Will not be exempted from the Efficiency
Bar based on the age.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2007
1366
04. Qualification required :
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) Should be of excellent character and of sound physical
health.
(c ) Should be over 18 years of age and not more than 45 years
of age on 31.12.2007 (Upper age limit will not apply to
those who are already in Public/Provincial Council Service).
05. Educational qualifications :
(a) A pass in the G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination in six
(06) subjects in not more than two sittings with credit
passes in 04 subjects including Language,  Mathematics
and Science (a pass in a minimum of 05 subjects at one
sitting);
Or
(b) A pass in the N.C.G.E. Examination in six (06) subjects in
not more than two sittings with credit passes in 04 subjects
including the above subjects (a pass in a minimum of 05
subjects at one sitting).
06. Professional Qualifications :
(a) A Diploma in Photograph from a recognized University
or Technical College  or Government recognized
Professional Institute;
Or
(b) Should have successfully followed a one year full time or
two-year part time Professional Course in Photography
offered at a Government-recognized professional Institute
and obtained certificates.
07. Experience.–5 years’ experience as a Photographer (to be
supported by certificates).
08. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitment will be made by an
interview and a practical test.
W. B. G
ANEGALA ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Housing and
Common Amenities.
Ministry of Housing and Common Amenities,
2nd Floor,
“Sethsiripaya”,
Battaramulla.
09th November, 2007.
MINISTRY OF HOUSING AND COMMON AMENITIES,
A
PPLICATION  FOR  THE  POST  OF STILL  PHOTOGRAPHER  GRADE  III
1. Name in Full (in block letters) :—
Mr./Mrs./Miss. :
2. Name with initials :—
3. Address (any change of address to be notified immediately) :—
(a) Private address :—
Telephone No. :—
(b) Official Address :—
Telephone No. :—
(a) Date of Birth :—
Y ear                   Month                    Day
(b) Age as at closing date of the application
Years                    Months  Days
(c ) N.I.C. No. :—
4. Are you a citizen of  Sri Lanka ?
5. (a) Sex :—
(b) Civil Status :—
6. The highest examination passed in the following subjects :—–.
1. Sinhala
2. Tamil
3. English
7. Educational/professional qualifications.
7.1 G.C.E. (O/L)
Year : Examination No. :
Subjects Grade
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10

<!-- page 7 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2007
1367
7.2 G.C.E. (A/L)
Y ear Examination No.
Subjects Grade
01
02
03
04
Degree/Diploma Y ear Subjects
8. If presently employed, particulars of employment.
Institution Designation From To Annual Salary
9. Other qualifications relevant to the profession :—.
10. Whether you were found guilty of a criminal offence in a
court of law at any time :—.
11. Have you served in the Public Service earlier (if so, please
give particulars of employment) :—.
12. Copies of the following certificates (not Originals) are attached
hereto :—.
(a) Birth Certificate ;
(b) Certificates of Educational Qualifications ;
(c ) Certificates of Professional Qualifications ;
(d) Certificates of Experience.
13. Names and the addresses of two non-related referees (with
telephone Nos.) :—
1.
2.
14.Any other relevant information :—
I hereby declare that the information furnished in this application
is true and accurate. I am aware that if any information herein is
found to be false or inaccurate before my selection, I will be liable for
disqualification and dismissal without compensation if found to be
so subsequent to the appointment.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :—
16. Certificate of the Head of Department
(Only if the applicant is employed in the Public/Provincial Public
Service).
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss……………… is employed
in this Department, his/her work and conduct is satisfactory, and has
completed the relevant qualifications as indicted in his notification
and state that he/she could/could not be released from the present
post if selected this post.
–––––––––––,
Signatue of Head of Department.
Designation.
Date :—
12-181/1
MINISTRY  OF  HOUSING  AND  COMMON  AMENITIES
THE POST OF CAMERA OPERATOR (VIDEO) GRADE III
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka
for the post of Camera Operator (Video) Grade III in the Ministry of
Housing and Common Amenities. The Applications made as per the
specimen mentioned below should be sent under registered post to
reach the Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Common Amenities,
Second Floor, Sethsiripaya, Battaramulla on or before 31.12.2007.
The “Post of Camera Operator (Video) Grade III” should be marked
on the top left-hand corner of the envelope.
Note:(a) Incomplete applications not made as per the specimen
will be rejected.
(b) complaints on loss and delay of the applications in the
post will not be considered.
(c) Officers already in the Public Service should forward
their applications through the Head of Department.
(d) the number of vacancies for this post is 01 (one).
02. Terms of employment and conditions of service for the above
mentioned post.
(a) Post is permanent and pensionable. Will be required to
contribute to the Widow’s and Orphans’ Pension
Scheme/Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme.
Appointment is subject to a probationary period of 03
years.
(b) Will be governed by the general conditions relating to
the Public Service appointments indicated at the
beginning of the para (IIa) of Part I of the Gazette.
(c ) Should obtain the proficiency in the official language
within the stipulated period in terms of the Official
language Policy and Public Administration Circular
No.: 7/2007.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2007
1368
03. Salaries and Allowances - monthly salary scale attached to
the Post is as follows:
(a) Rs. 14,000-10x120-11x140-6x210-14x290- Rs. 22,060
(Applicable to the Grade III/II “b”).
(b) According to the Public Administration Circular 6/2006
(MTI - 2006).
(c) Those recruited for the Grade 111 will be placed on the
initial step of salary scale of Rs. 14,000-10x120–Rs.
15,200 relevant to the Grade III.
(d) Should pass the Efficiency Bar Examination within 3
years of appointment. Will not be exempted from the
Efficiency Bar based on the age.
04. Qualification required.
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(b) Should be of excellent character and of sound physical
health.
(c ) Should be over 18 years of age and not more than 45
years of age on 31.12.2007 (Upper age limit will not
apply to those who are already in Public/Provincial
Council Service).
05. Educational qualifications:
(a) A pass in the G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination in
six (06) subjects in not more than two sittings with
credit passes in 04 subjects including Language,
Mathematics and Science (a pass in a minimum of 05
subjects at one sitting).
or
(b) A pass in the NCGE Examination in six (06) subjects
in not more than two sittings with credit passes in 04
subjects including the above subjects (a pass in a
minimum of 05 subjects at one sitting).
06. Professional Qualifications:
(a) A Diploma in Photography from a recognized
University or Technical College or Government
recognized Professional Institute.
or
(b) Should have successfully followed a one-year full time
or two-year part time Professional Course in
Photography offered at a Government-recognized
professional Institute and obtained certificates.
07. Experience .– 5 years experience as a Photographer (to be
supported by certificates).
08. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitment will be made by an
interview and a practical test.
W. B. G
ANEGALA ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Housing and
Common Amenities.
Ministry of Housing and Common Amenities,
2nd Floor,
“Sethsiripaya”,
Battaramulla.
09th November, 2007.
Ministry of Housing and Common Amenities,
Application for the post of Camera Operator (Video) Grade III
1. Name in Full (in block letters) :—
Mr./Mrs./Miss. :—
2. Name with initials :—
3. Address: (any change of address to be notified immediately)
:—
(a) Private address :—
Telephone No. :—
(b) Official Address :—
Telephone No. :—
(a) Date of Birth :—
Year:                   Month:                 Day:
(b) Age as at closing date of the application
Year:                    Month:                   Day:
(c) N.I.C. No. :—
4. Are you a citizen of  Sri Lanka ?–––.
5. (a) Sex :—
(b) Civil Status :—
6. The highest examination passed in the following subjects :—
1. Sinhala
2. Tamil
3. English

<!-- page 9 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2007
1369
7. Educational/professional qualifications.
7.1 G.C.E. (O/L)
Year:–––––. Examination No.:–––––.
subjects Grade
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10
7.2  G.C.E. (A/L)
Year:–––––. Examination No.:–––––.
subjects Grade
01
02
03
04
Degree/Diploma Y ear Subjects
8. If presently employed, particulars of employment.
Institution Designation From To Annual Salary
9. Other qualifications relevant to the profession :—
10. Whether you were found guilty of a criminal offence in a
court of law at any time :—
11. Have you served in the Public Service earlier (if so, please
give particulars of employment) :—
12. Copies of the following certificates (not Originals) are attached
hereto :—
(a) Birth Certificate ;
(b) Certificates of Educational qualifications ;
(c) Certificates of Professional Qualifications ;
(d) Certificates of Experience.
13. Names and the addresses of two non-related referees (with
telephone Nos.) :—
1.
2.
14. Any other relevant information :—
15. I hereby declare that the information furnished in this
application is true and accurate. I am aware that if any information
herein is found to be false or inaccurate before my selection, I will be
liable for disqualification and dismissal without compensation if
found to be so subsequent to the appointment.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :—
16. Certificate of the Head of Department
(Only if the applicant is employed in the Public/Provincial Public
Service).
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss……………… is employed
in this Department, his/her work and conduct is satisfactory, and has
completed the relevant qualifications as indicated in this notification
and state that he/she could/could not be released from the present
post if selected for this post.
––––––––––––––,
Signatue of Head of Department.
Designation.
Date :
12-181/2
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY OF VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL TRAINING
Admission for National Diploma in Information and Communication Technology
(NDICT) Programs - Year 2008
01. National Diploma in Information and Communication Technology (NDICT) is to be commenced on January 2008 at the following IT
Centers.
Course fee of National IT Center is Rs. 15000 and the course fee of other centers is Rs. 12,000. Duration of the course is One Year
(full  time basis). Course fee can be paid in installments.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2007
1370
No. Center Mailing Address
01. National Information and Training Manager, National IT Center, 354, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Communication Technology Narahenpita.
Training Center - Narahenpita (VTA)
02. Regional Information and Assistant Director, V ocational Training Authority of Sri Lanka, Ballapana,
Communication Technology Galigamuwa.
Training Center, Galigamuwa. (VTA)
03. Regional Information and Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Center, MACFA
Communication Technology Garment Building, Main Rd, Nindavur.
Training Center, Nindavur. (VTA)
04. Regional Information and Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Center, Vandaramulai,
Communication Technology (VTA) Batticaloa.
Training Center, Batticaloa.
05. National IT Center, Baddegama. (VTA) Assistant Director, National IT Center, Makurugoda Rd, Baddegama.
06. Regional Information and Province Director, "NAITA", North Western Province Office, Negambo
Communication Technology Rd, Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala.
Training Center, Kurunegala. (NAITA)
07. Regional Information and Province Director, "NAITA", Central Province Office, No. 108/2B,
Communication Technology Thiwankabodhi Mawatha, Kandy.
Training Center, Kandy. (NAITA)
2. Minimum Entry Qualifications :
(1) Holder of NCICT
 or
(2) Six passes in not more than two sittings with credits for English and Mathematics in GCE(O/L)
and
any full time six months computer certificate course, which should include following areas :
(1) Computer Basics (DOS, Windows, Principles of Networking, Hardware)
(2) Office Automation (Word Processing, Spread Sheets, Presentation software and Database software)
(3) Internet and WWW with HTML Programming
(4) System Analysis and Design
Age Limit :
Age should not be less than 18 years and not more than 30 years as at 31st December 2007.
(3) Selection will be done through an aptitude test and an interview.
(4) Application prepared as per the specimen application form in A4 size paper (8.4” x 11.8”) should be sent on or before 24th
December, 2007 to the address, which is indicated next to the centre of first preference. Please indicate the title “ National
Diploma in Information and Communication Technology” in the top left hand corner of the envelope.
Chairman,
V ocational Training Authority of Sri Lanka
and IT Action Committiee.
November 2007.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2007
1371
For Office use only
Ministry of Vocational and Technical Training
National Diploma in Information and Communication Technology (NDICT)
Specimen Application Form - January 2008
1. Name with initials :———.
(Write in Block Letters) :———.
2. Name in full :———.
3. Permanent Address :———.
4. District :———.
5. Sex  :———.
6. Date of Birth : Year :———.               Month :––––––––.                       Day :––––––––––.
7. Age as at 31st December 2007 : Years : ––––––––.        Months : ––––––––.       Days :———.
8. Number of the National Identity Card and the Date issued :———.
9. Selected Vocational Training Centre :———.
Institution Centre
10. Centre at which NCICT/ any other Six months computer course followed :———.
11. Index No. of Final NCICT exam (if any) :———.                                  Grade Obtained (if any) :–––––––.
12.Educational Qualifications :———.
(1) G. C. E. (O/L) Results  Index No. :                  Year
Subject Grade
(II) G. C. E. (A/L) Results Index No. :                  Year
Subject Grade
I do hereby certify that the above information is correct and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I agree that if the information
submitted by me is false or inaccurate I am liable to be dismissed from my studentship.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :———.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2007
1372
MINISTRY  OF  VOCATIONAL  AND  TECHNICAL  TRAINING
Admission for National Certificate in Information and Communication
Technology (NCICT) Programs - Year 2008
1. NATIONAL Certificate in Information and Communication Technology (NCICT) is to be commenced on January 2008 at the following
IT Centers.
The total course fee is Rs. 5,000 and the duration of the course is six months (full time basis)
Course fee can be paid in installments.
2. Minimum Entry Qualifications :
Educational Qualifications :
(i) Should have passed the G.C.E.(O/L) Examination in 06 Subjects with 02 Credit Passes for English and Mathematics in not
more than 2 sittings.
; or
(ii) Should have passed the G.C.E.(O/L) Examination in 06 Subjects with 4 Credit Passes for any subject and 02 simple Passes
for English and Mathematics in not more than 2 sitting.
; or
(iii)Should have passed the G.C.E.(O/L) Examination in 06 Subjects with 03 Credit Passes for any subject and 02 simple Passes
for English and Mathematics and also should have 02 simple passes for any subject at the G.C.E.(A/L) Examination in not
more than 02 sittings.
Age Limit :
Age should be not less than 16 years and not more than 25 years as at 31st of December, 2007.
3. Selection will be done through an aptitude test and an interview.
4. List of centers in which the NCICT Program will be conducted is given below. Please indicate the centre of your choice with the
relevant institution.
5. Applications prepared as per the specimen application form in A4 size paper (8.4" x 11.8") should be sent on or before 24th
December, 2007 to the address, which is indicated the Cage next to your choice. Please indicate the title “National Certificate in Information
and Communication Technology” in the top left hand corner of the envelope.
Chairman,
V ocational Training Authority of Sri Lanka
and IT Action Committee.
For Office use only
MINISTRY  OF  VOCATIONAL  AND  TECHNICAL  TRAINING
N
ATIONAL  CERTIFICA TE IN INFORMATION  AND  COMMUNICATION  TECHNOLOGY  (NCICT)
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM  - JANUARY  2008
1. Name with initials :————,
(Write in Block Letters)
2. Name in Full :————,

<!-- page 13 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2007
1373
3. Permanent Address :————, Contact T.P. No. :————,
4. District :————,
5. Sex :————,
6. Date of Birth :                              Year :————,             Month :————,              Date :————,
7. Age as at 31st December 2007 Years :————,                  Months :————,              Days :————,
8. Number of the National Identity Card and the Date issued :
No. :–————, Date Issued :————,
9. Selected V ocational Training Centre :————,
Institution Centre
10. Educational Qualifications :————,
1. G. C. E. (O/L) Results:                                    Index No. :––––––.                    Year :———.
Subject Grade
II. G. C. E. (A/L) Results Index No. : –––––––––––            Year :———.
Subject Grade
I do hereby certity that the above information is correct and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I agree that if the informations
submitted by me is false or inaccurate I am liable to be dismissed from any studentship.
———–––––—,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :————,
CENTRES  UNDER  THE  VOCATIONAL  TRAINING  AUTHORITY  OF  SRI LANKA  (VTASL )
Centre Mailing Address
01. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Padukka Assistant Director, Colombo District Office, V ocational Training
Authrotiy of Sri Lanka, YMBA Building, Sarana Road, Welikada,
Rajagiriya.
02. Rural Vocational Training Centre, Talbot Town, Galle
03. District Vocational Training Centre, Elpitiya
04. National IT Centre, Baddegama Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Office, Talbot Town,
Galle.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2007
1374
05. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Thawalama
06. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Y akkalamulla
07. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Paramulla, Matara Assistant Director, District, V ocational Training Authority of Sri
Lanka, District Office, Pahala Peekwella, Matara.
08. District V ocational Training Centre, Thalalla, Kottegoda Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, Pantaramaya,
Pahala Peakwella, Matara.
09. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Y .M.B.A. Building,
Kandy
10. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Kotabogoda, Assistant Director, District Office, V ocational Training Authority of
Kadugannawa Sri Lanka, Gannoruwa Road, Peradeniya.
11. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Peradeniya
12. District V ocational Training Centre, Veyangoda
13. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Yatiyana, Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, V ocational
Training Authority of Sri Lanka, V eyangoda.
14. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Thambagoda, Balangoda Assistant Director, District Office, V ocational Training Authority of
Sri Lanka Panawenna, Kahawatta.
15. District V ocational Training Centre, Inamaluwa, Dambulla Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, Inamaluwa,
Dambulla.
16. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Minneriya
17. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Ella Road, Wellawaya Assistant Director, District Office, V ocational Training Authority of
Sri Lanka Niwasa Adikariya Road, Monaragala.
18. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Iginiyagala Road, Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, MACFA
Ampara (Sinhala Medium) Garment Factory Building, Akkareipattu Road.
19. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Karativu (Tamil Medium) Assistant Director, Rural V ocational Training Centre, Main Street,
Karithivu.
20. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Sainthamaruthu Assistant Director, Rural V ocational Training Centre, C/o. Km/Al-
hilal Vidyalayam, Sainthamaruthu.
21. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Akkareipattu Assistant Director, Rural V ocational Training Centre, Muslim M. M.
Vidyalaya Road, Akkaraipatthu.
22. District V ocational Training Centre, Vandaramulai Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, V andaramulai,
(Tamil Medium) Batticaloa.
23. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Eravur
24. District V ocational Training Centre, Ambegoda, Assistant Director, District Office Training Centre,
Bandarawela V ocational Training Authority of Sri Lanka, Abegoda, Bandarawela.
25. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Rock Hill, Badulla
26. District V ocational Training Centre, Mirijjawila, Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre,
Hambantota Henakaduwa Sri Sudharshanaramaa, T angalle.
27. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Weeraketiya
28. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Rambewa, Mihintale
29. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Kantale Assistant Director, District Vocational Training Centre, Kandy Lake
Road, Anuradhapura.
30. Regional IT Centre, Kandy Lake Road, Anuradhapura
31. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Murunkan (Mannar)
32. District V ocational Training Centre, Ballapana, Galigamuva Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, Ballapana,
Galigamuwa.
33. District V ocational Training Centre, Horana Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, Wewala,
Horana.
34. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Bingiriya Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, Saragama,
Kurunegala.
35. District V ocational Training Centre, Marawila Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, Chillaw Road,
Marawila.
CENTERS  UNDER  THE  NATIONAL  APPRENTICE  & INDUSTRIAL  TRAINING  AUTHORITY  (NAITA )
Centre Mailing Address
36. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Province Director, "NAITA", North Central Province
Medawachchiya Office, 525/2, Maithreepal Senanayaka Mawatha, 2nd Stage,
Rathnayakapura, Anuradhapura.
Centre Mailing Address

<!-- page 15 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2007
1375
37. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA,
Polonnaruwa
38. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Jaffna
39. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Vaddukodai Province Director, "NAITA". Northern Province Office,
No. 7, Temple Road, Jaffna.
40. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, V avuniya
41. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, AETI, Director/Principal, AETI, 07, Danister De Silva Mawatha,
Orugodawatte Orugodawatte, Wellampitiya.
42. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Matara Province Director, "NAITA", Southern Province Office, 27/A, Open
University Avenue, Nupe, Matara.
43. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Elpitiya
44. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Province Director, "NAITA", Central Province Office, 108/2B,
Katugastota Thiwankabodhi Mw., Kandy.
45. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Hatton
46. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, BeruwalaProvince Director, "NAITA", Western Province Office, 242, Havelock
Road, Colombo 05.
47. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Embilipitiya
48. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, MawanellaProvince Director, "NAITA", Sabaragamuwa Province Office, College
Avenue, New Town, Ratnapura.
49. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Yatiyantota
50. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Trincomalee Province Manager, "NAITA", Eastern Province Office, No. 07, G. S.
Lane, Kalmunaikudi-13, Kalmunai.
51. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Badulla Province Manager, "NAITA", Uva Province Office, No. 288,
Kumarasinghe Mawatha, Off Passara Road, Badulla.
52. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Madampe Province Manager, "NAITA", Northern Western Province Office,
Negombo Road, Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala.
53. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Galgamuwa
Centers under the Department of Technical Education & Training (DTET)
Centre Mailing Address
54. Technical College, Kegalle Principal, Technical College, Kachcheri Road, Kagelle.
55. Technical College, Maradana Principal, Technical College, Olcott Mawatha, Maradana,
Colombo 10.
56. Technical College, Aruppola Pricipal Technical College, Aruppola, Kandy.
57. Technical College, Rathnapura Principal T echnical College, Farm Garden, Colombo Road, Ratnapura.
58. Technical College, Galle Pricipal Technical College, Kaluwella, Galle.
59. Technical College, Matara Principal Technical College, Meddewatta, Matara.
Centers under the National Youth Services Council (NYSC)
Centre Mailing Address
60. Vocational Training Centre, National Youth Centre, O. I. C. National Youth Centre, 65, High Level Road, Maharagama.
Maharagama
61. Rikillagaskada Youth Empowerment Centre, Nuwara-Eliya O. I. C. Rikillagaskada Training Centre, National Youth Services
Council, Rikillagaskada.
62. V ocational Training Centre, Kurunegala O. I. C. District Office, National Youth Services Council,
Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala.
63. Vocational Training Centre, Makola Manager, Korea-Lanka Friendship Technical Training Institute,
National Youth Services Council, Sapugaskanda, Makola.
64. V ocational Training Centre, Naula O. I. C. Naula Training Centre, National Youth Services Council,
Divisional Secretariat, Office, Arangala, Naula.
65. V ocational Training Centre, Chilaw O. I. C. District Centre, National Youth Services Council, Ananda
Mawatha, Chilaw.
66. V ocational Training Centre, Moneragala O. I. C. Monaragala V ocational Training Centre, National Youth
Services  Council, Praja Shalawa Road, Kachcheriya Junction,
Moneragala.
Centre Mailing Address

<!-- page 16 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2007
1376
67. V ocational Training Centre, Kobawaka O. I. C. Kobawaka Vocational Training Centre, National Youth Services
Council, Kobawaka, Govinna.
68. V ocational Training Centre, Ratmalana O. I. C. Ratmalana V ocational Training Centre, Railway Station Road,
Ratmalana.
69. V ocational Training Centre, Dehiwala O. I. C. Dehiwala V ocational Training Centre, National Y outh Services
Council, Palliya Dora Road, Kawdana, Dehiwala.
70. V ocational Training Centre, Akuressa O. I. C. Akuressa Vocational Training Centre, National Youth Services
Council, Thibbotuwawa, Akuressa.
71. V ocational Training Centre, Meerigama O. I. C. Chanapradeepa V ocational Centre, Nationala Youth Services
Council, Meerigama.
12-184
Centre Mailing Address

<!-- page 17 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2007
1377
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 1995
(Issued every Friday)
1. All notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments
to the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 9.00 a.m. to 4.45 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompa-
nied by Money order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in
payment of Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor
of the Supreme Court.
10. The authorised scale for charges for notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 1995 :–
Rs. c.
One inch or less 51 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof 51 0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette 504 0
Two columns or one page of Gazette 1,008 0
All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.
11. The "Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka" is published every Friday. Day of publication is
subject to alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8, as shown in
schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. * REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 1995
(Govt. Gazette Annual)
Local Foreign
     Rs. c.       Rs. c.
Whole of Part I (3 sections together) 1,612 0 2,098 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 572 0 745 0
Section I 520 0 1,007 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders Examinations etc.) 624 0 1,009 0
Section III 468 0 907 0
Extraordinary Gazette 3,360 0 4,422 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies if available in stock
Price Postage (Local)
  Rs. c.   Rs. c.
(A) Part I 31 0 5 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 11 0 5 0
(B) Section I 10 0 5 0
Section II 12 0 5 0
Section III 9 0 5 0
All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, who is responsible for
booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2007
1378
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette. Payments
should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132,  Maya Avenue, Kirulapone,
Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
The  Schedule
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2007
DECEMBER 07.12.2007 Friday — 23.11.2007 Friday 12 noon
14.12.2007 Friday –– 30.11.2007 Friday 12 noon
20.12.2007 Thursday –– 07.12.2007 Friday 12 noon
28.12.2007 Friday –– 14.12.2007 Friday 12 noon
2008
JANUARY 04.01.2008 Friday — 20.12.2007 Thursday 12 noon
11.01.2008 Friday –– 28.12.2007 Friday 12 noon
18.01.2008 Friday –– 04.01.2008 Friday 12 noon
25.01.2008 Friday –– 11.01.2008 Friday 12 noon
FEBRUARY 01.02.2008 Friday — 18.01.2008 Friday 12 noon
08.02.2008 Friday –– 25.01.2008 Friday 12 noon
15.02.2008 Friday –– 01.02.2008 Friday 12 noon
22.02.2008 Friday –– 08.02.2008 Friday 12 noon
29.02.2008 Friday –– 15.02.2008 Friday 12 noon
L AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
PRINTED   AT   THE   DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING,   SRI  LANKA.