

<!-- page 1 -->

Price : Rs. 6.75 Postage : Rs. 4.50
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  01
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
AIYENAYAKA  DEV ALA  DEVELOPMENT
MUDIYANSE  TENNAKOON  FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)  ACT,  No. 20  OF  2003
[Certified on 21st July, 2003]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July  25, 2003

<!-- page 2 -->

Aiyenayaka Devala Development Mudiyanse
 Tennakoon Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 20 of 2003
1
[Certified on 21st July, 2003]
L. D. — O. 32/2002
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  AIYENAY AKA  DEV ALA
D EVELOPMENT  M UDIY ANSE  TENNAKOON  FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the
‘Aiyenayaka Devala Development Mudiyanse Tennakoon
Foundation’ has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for the
purpose of effectually carrying out the objects of the said
foundation and transacting all  matters connected with the
said Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its
members :
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects and
matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Aiyenayaka Devala
Development Mudiyanse Tennakoon Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2003.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the
Aiyenayaka Devala Development Mudiyanse Tennakoon
Foundation  (hereinafter referred to as the foundation) or shall
hereafter be admitted members of the Corporation hereby
constituted, shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to
as the ‘Corporation’), with perpetual succession, under the
name and style of the ‘Aiyenayaka Devala Development
Mudiyanse Tennakoon Foundation’ and by that name may
sue, and be sued, in all courts, with full power and authority
to have, and use a common seal and alter the same at its
pleasure.
2—H 015089—5,650 (2002/04)
Incorporation of
the Aiyenayaka
Devala
Development
Mudiyanse
Tennakoon
Foundation.
Short title
.
Preamble.

<!-- page 3 -->

Aiyenayaka Devala Development Mudiyanse
 Tennakoon Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 20 of 2003
2
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to preserve and develop the historic Aiyenayaka
Devalaya at Deduru Oya in Nikaweratiya;
(b) to practise  the traditional forms of offerings and
customs in respect of the Aiyenayaka Devala and
Aiyenayka God;
(c) to preserve the historic monuments and cultural
artefacts in the sacred premises of the Aiyenayaka
Devalaya;
(d) to continue and foster  the programme of national,
cultural and religious rituals as well as the
programme of  sports and dancing. implemented in
1958 ;
(e) to maintain and improve all the buildings, electricity
and water supply and sanitary services at the sacred
premises of the Aiyenayaka Devalaya;
(f) to sponsor religious, cultural and social services
approved by the Corporation;
(g) to implement co-ordinated programmes through co-
operation with whatever social service and religious
and cultural organizations in Sri Lanka and abroad
deemed necessary by the Corporation;
(h) to do all such other things as are incidental or
conducive to the attainment of all or any of the obects
of the Corporation.
4. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or herafter to be recived by way of gift,
request, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grants
for and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited to
the credit of the Corporation in one or more state banks as the
Board of Management shall determine.
General Objects
of the
Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Aiyenayaka Devala Development Mudiyanse
 Tennakoon Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 20 of 2003
3
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporation
all sums of money to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act or any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute, all such acts, matters and things as are
necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of
the objects of the Corporation or any one of them, including
the power to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow
or raise money with or without security, to receive or collect
grants and donations, to invest its funds and to engage, employ
and dismiss, officers and servants required for the carrying
out of the objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, be
administered by a Board of Management consisting of the
office bearers and such other persons as may be provided for
in usch rules and elected in accordance therewith.
(2) The First Board of management of the Corporation
shall be the Board of management of the Foundation holding
office on the day prior to the date of commencement of this
Act.
7. (1) There It shall be lawful for the Corporation from
time to time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not
less than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to
make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or
any other written law for the admission, withdrawal,
resignation, retirement or expulsion of members, for the
election of office bearers of the Board of management and of
the various officers, agents and servants of the Corporation,
for the procedure to be followed in the transaction of business,
and otherwise generally for the management of the affairs of
the Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects. The
rules of the Corporation may be amended, altered, added to,
or rescinded at a like meeting and in like manner.
General powers of
the Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Aiyenayaka Devala Development Mudiyanse
 Tennakoon Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 20 of 2003
4
(2) The rules of the Foundation in force on the day
preceding the date of commencement of operation of this Act
shall be deemed to be the rules of the Corporation made under
this section in so far as they are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act.
(3)  Members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.
8. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall
be paid by the Corporation, hereby constituted and all debts
due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to, the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
acquire and hold, any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time being,
of the Corporation shall have full power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same. All land,
immovable and movable property including buildings and all
assets and rights held by the Foundation prior to the
commencement of this Act shall become vested in the
Corporation incorporated by this Act.
10. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such
number of office bearers as may be provided for in the rules
of the Corporation who shall sign their names to the instrument
in token of their presence and such signing shall be
independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
Debts due by and
payable to the
Corporation.
Corporation may
hold property
movable or
immovable.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Aiyenayaka Devala Development Mudiyanse
 Tennakoon Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 20 of 2003
5
11. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate
or of any other person except such as are mentioned in this
Act and those claiming by, from, or under, them
12. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 7 -->

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  B UREAU , NO . 32,
TRANSWORKS   HOUSE ,  LOTUS   ROAD ,  COLOMBO  01  before  15th  December  each  year  in   respect
 of the year following.