

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2381$24 - 2024 wfm%a,a ui 22 jeks i÷od - 2024.04.22
No. 2381/24  -  moNday,   april   22, 2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- pG 6702 - 364 (04/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L. D. -B. 3/2021(II) 
THE  COLOMBO  PORT  CITY  ECONOMIC  COMMISSION  ACT,  NO.  11  OF  2021 
rEGUlaTioNS made by the minister of investment promotion in consultation with the Colombo port City Economic 
Commission under section 71 of the Colombo port City Economic Commission act, No. 11 of 2021, read with section 52 
of the aforesaid act. 
 Ranil Wickremesinghe, 
 minister of investment promotion. 
Colombo, 
april 22, 2024. 
Regulations 
1. These regulations may be cited as the Colombo port City (Guidelines on the Grant of Exemptions or incentives 
to Businesses of Strategic importance-duty Free operations) regulations, No. 01 of 2024. 
2. (1) an authorised person who intends to carry on a business of duty-free retail operations or duty-free mall 
operations in and from the Area of Authority of the Colombo Port City shall satisfy the requirements specified in sub-
regulation (3) or (4) respectively. 

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'22
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2024
2a
(2) Upon satisfying the requirements specified in sub-regulation (3) or (4) as the case may be, the duty-free retail 
operations and duty-free mall operations may, subject to the provisions of subsection (2) of section 52 of the act, be 
designated as Businesses of Strategic importance-duty Free operations. 
(3) an authorised person who intends to carry on the business of duty-free retail operations shall satisfy the 
following requirements: - 
 
 (a) to make a minimum investment of USd Five million; 
 (b) to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commission that it has global experience in duty-free operations 
and has access to a portfolio of luxury high-end branded retail products; 
 (c) to adopt the Commission’s passenger entry registration process which is integrated with the department 
of immigration and Emigration for the validation of permitted customers; and 
 (d) to adopt supervision and oversight of the duty-free retail operation compliances of the Sri lanka Customs 
in accordance with regulation 7. 
(4) an authorised person who intends to carry on the business of duty-free mall operations shall be required to 
satisfy the following requirements: - 
 (a) to make a minimum investment of USd Seven million; and 
 (b) to adopt the Commission’s passenger entry registration process which is integrated with the department 
of immigration and Emigration for the validation of permitted customers. 
3. a  business designated as - 
 (a)  a Business of Strategic importance-duty Free retail operations; or 
 (b)  a Business of Strategic importance-duty Free mall operations, 
shall be entitled to the exemptions from, or incentives under, the enactments set out in Schedule ii to the act, for a period 
of twenty years from the date of publication of an order in the Gazette in terms of subsection (3) of section 53 of the act. 
4. an authorised person shall be entitled for the exemptions or incentives granted under regulation 3 only if such 
authorised person satisfies the requirements specified in these regulations and is designated as a Business of Strategic 
importance-duty Free retail operations or a Business of Strategic importance-duty Free mall operations within a period 
of three years from the date of publication of these regulations in the Gazette. 
5. an authorised person who has been designated as a Business of Strategic importance -duty Free retail operations 
or a Business of Strategic importance -duty Free mall operations in accordance with these regulations- 
 (a)  shall only sell the permitted goods specified in Column I of Schedule i to these regulations within the 
product description specified in the corresponding entry in Column II of that Schedule and in permitted 
quantities specified in the corresponding entry in Column III of that Schedule; and   
 (b)  shall sell the permitted goods referred to in sub-regulation (a) to the permitted customers specified in 
the headings of Column II, Column III, Column IV , Column V and Column VI of Schedule ii to these 
regulations, within the permitted allowances and in accordance with the other conditions specified in 
the corresponding entry in each such Column, as correspond to the details of the allowances specified in 
Column I of that Schedule. 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'22
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2024
3a
6. The duty-Free retail operators shall use a digital payment system (cashless electronic payment system) to carry 
out duty-free retail transactions with Sri lankan passport holders including dual-citizens of Sri lanka and foreign passport 
holders with resident visa in Sri Lanka specified in Column II of Schedule ii to these regulations. 
7. The duty-Free retail operations and duty-Free mall operations shall be under the regulatory supervision and 
oversight of the Sri Lanka Customs, the Department of Immigration and Emigration and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 
8. in these regulations -  
“act” means the Colombo port City Economic Commission act, No. 11 of 2021; 
“authorised person” shall have the same meaning as in the act; 
“Commission” means the Colombo port City Economic Commission established under section 2 of the act; 
“duty-free mall operations” means operations of an authorised person who develops and manages one or 
more duty-free malls consisting of multiple duty-free retail operators and the infrastructure of such 
duty-free malls within the area of authority of the Colombo port City; 
“duty-free operations” means duty-free retail operations and duty-free mall operations; and 
“duty-free retail operations” means operations of an authorised person who is engaged in the business of 
selling retail goods within the duty-free mall operations;   
“resident visa holder” means a person holding a valid foreign passport with any type of Sri lankan resident 
Visa issued by the department of immigration and Emigration of Sri lanka. 
“Sri lankan passport Holder” means a person holding a valid passport issued by the department of 
immigration and Emigration in Sri lanka including a Sri lankan having dual citizenship; and 
“Tourist” means a foreign passport holder with a valid visa. 
9. The Colombo port City (Guidelines on the Grant of Exemptions or incentives to Businesses of Strategic 
importance-duty Free operations) regulations, No. 3 of 2023 published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 2355/30 of 
october 25, 2023 are hereby rescinded.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'22
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2024
4a
                                                                                                                               SCHEDULE I                                                                                         [regulation 5] 
                                                                                                        Permitted Goods in Permitted Quantities  
 Column I Column II Column III 
  Permitted Goods  Definition of Product Type  
(Permitted Quantity is limited to the Product Type Defined)  
Permitted Quantities (Units of Sale)  
1 Ceylon Tea and Sri Lankan Spices including Drinks* Ceylon Tea and Sri Lankan Spices including Drinks 
 
No limit 
2 Clothing Business & Formal Attire, Casual Wear, Sportswear & Inner 
Wear 
Maximum of 16 units in total (maximum 
of 4 units of Business & Formal Attire or 
Casual Wear or   Sportswear or Inner 
Wear) 
 
3 Computers   & Computer Peripherals Computers: Laptops & Tablets 
  
Computer Peripherals: External Electronic Devices that can be 
used as input/ output sources 
 
Maximum of 2 units in total and 1 unit of 
Peripherals 
4 Confectionery Chocolates and Sweets Maximum of 5kg in total 
5 Crockery Porcelain Dinner Set Maximum of 1 set of Dinner Wear 
6 Food Items  Nuts, Dates, Dry Fruits, Cereal, Sauces, Spreads & Honey 
 
Maximum of 2kg in total 
7 Leather Accessories  Belts, Bags, Wallets & Shoes Maximum of 16 units in total (maximum 
of 4 units of Belts or Bags or Wallets or 
Shoes)  
8 Luggage Travel Bags & Suitcases Maximum of 2 units in total 
9 Mobile Telephones & Accessories - Maximum of 2 units in total 
10 Pens & Pen Accessories* - Maximum of 12 units 
11 Perfume, Cosmetics & Make-Up - Maximum of 250ml of Perfume, Make-up 
Cosmetics and Accessories (2 units of 
each product, not each brand)  
12 Small Electronic Items for Personal Use and Personal 
Care 
Bluetooth Speakers, Headphones & Earphones, Shavers, Hair-
dryers & Straighteners, Toothbrushes & Oral Care Devices, 
Health Massage Devices, Health Check Devices & Electronic 
Games Consoles  
Maximum of 1 unit of each product type 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'22
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2024
5a
 
13  Spirit, Wine & Beer * *  - Maximum of 2 litres of Sprits , not 
exceeding 2 litres of Wine and 2 litres of 
Beer *  
14  Sunglasses & Eyewear  - Maximum  of 4 units  in total  
15  Tobacco **  Cigarettes & Cigars  Maximum of 1 Carton of Cigarettes (200 
Cigarettes) & 1 Box of Cigars (Maximum 
50) **  
 
16  Toiletries & Baby Products  Toiletries: Hair, Face, Oral & Body Care Products for Men, 
Woman & Baby  
 
Baby Products: Diapers/Pampers  
Maximum of 0.5 litres of Toilet 
Water/Eau De Toilette,  
Maximum of 2 units of other toiletries 
each, 
Maximum of 24 pcs  of Diapers/Pampers, 
not each brand  
 
17  Toys  Dolls, Action Figures, Construction Toys, Electronic and 
Educational Toys  
Maximum of 6 sets in total (Maximum of 
2 sets of  each type of Toys, not each 
brand  
 
18  Watches and S mart B ands  - Maximum of 2 units in total  
 *  Only for depart ing passengers . 
 **  As per the condition No. 7  of Schedule II to  these regulations.  
 
                                                                                                                               SCHEDULE I                                                                                         [regulation 5] 
                                                                                                        Permitted Goods in Permitted Quantities 
 Column I Column II Column III 
  Permitted Goods Definition of Product Type  
(Permitted Quantity is limited to the Product Type Defined) 
Permitted Quantities (Units of Sale) 
1 Ceylon Tea and Sri Lankan Spices including Drinks* Ceylon Tea and Sri Lankan Spices including Drinks 
 
No limit 
(Contd.)
*

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'22
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2024
6a
1  
 
 
  
 
                                                                                                                   Schedule II                                                                                      [regulation 5] 
     Permitted Allowances  
 Column I Column II Column         III Column IV Column V Column VI 
 Details Sri Lankan passport holders  including 
Dual Citizens of Sri Lanka and Foreign 
passport holders with resident visa in 
Sri Lanka , who have returned to Sri 
Lanka with valid proof of arrival 
 
Tourists who have a valid foreign 
passport and arrived in Sri Lanka, as 
approved by the Department of 
Immigration and Emigration 
Sri Lankan passport holders including 
Dual Citizens of Sri Lanka and foreign  
passport holders with resident visa in Sri 
Lanka who intend to travel overseas  with 
valid travel documents 
Persons residing outside Sri Lanka who 
intend to purchase Permitted Goods via 
the internet and have the Permitted 
Goods so purchased  delivered to a place 
outside Sri Lanka 
Diplomats and diplomatic 
organisations established and 
operating in Sri Lanka as approved 
by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
1  Duty  Free  Allowance  Value  in  USD  Annual  limit of duty -free allowance is USD  
2,000. 
 
(All payments shall be made by using 
authorised digital or electronic  payment 
instruments including Debit or Credit cards 
or QR Code. A permitted customer shall use 
his own digital or electronic payment 
instruments.) 
 
No annual value limit is applicable for 
the  purchase of Permitted Goods 
specified in Schedule I . 
(Permitted goods purchased by a tourist 
shall not be handed over to such tourist . 
Duty-free operators shall ensure that such 
goods are delivered  to the Airport for 
collection by the tourist at the time of his 
departure from Sri Lanka.) 
No annual value limit is applicable for the 
purchase of Permitted Goods specified in 
Schedule I. 
(Permitted goods purchased by an out -bound 
traveler shall not be handed over to such traveler. 
Duty-free operators shall ensure that such goods 
are delivered to the Airport for collection by such 
out-bound traveler at the time of his departure 
from Sri Lanka.) 
No annual value limit is applicable for the 
purchase of Permitted Goods specified in 
Schedule I. 
(Duty-free operators shall ensure that the 
Permitted Goods purchased by persons residing 
outside Sri Lanka are delivered to the relevant 
places outside Sri Lanka.) 
(No person living in Sri Lanka shall be allowed 
to purchase Permitted Goods directly  or 
indirectly and delivered to Sr Lanka) 
As approved  by the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs  
2 Permitted Quantity of the Permitted 
Goods (Refer to Schedule I)  
As  set out  in  Schedule I No quantity limit is applicable  
Permitted Goods as specified in 
Schedule I  
No  quantity  limit is applicable.   
Permitted Goods as specified in Schedule I  
No  quantity  limit os applicable.  
Permitted Goods as specified in Schedule I  
Quantity limit is as  approved by the 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs  
Permitted Goods as specified in 
Schedule I 
3  Commencement  of the Allowance  From  the  First  Date  of Arrival  to  Sri 
Lanka  (FDOA)  within 4 days  
From  the  date  of arrival  to  Sri Lanka  Purchase  to  be  completed  prior to  the date of 
travel  
Post  Registration  as  a  Colombo  Port  City  
Duty  Free  Customer  
As approved by the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs  
4 Validity  Period of the Allowance  Annual  Allowance  from FDOA  During  the  stay  in  Sri Lanka  as 
approved by the Department of 
Immigration and Emigration  
Not  Applicable  Not  Applicable  As approved by the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs  
5  Purchase  Period Single visit within 4 days  of FDOA  During  the  stay  in  Sri Lanka  Purchase  to  be  completed  prior to  the date of 
travel  
O rder  can be placed after  registration.  As approved by the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs  
6  Frequency  of Visits  (within  the  
Purchase  Period)  
Annually a s ingle visit  within  4 days  of 
FDOA  
Multiple  visits  during  the  stay  in  Sri 
Lanka  
Purchase  to  be  completed  prior to the date 
of travel  
 
Not  Applicable  
 
As approved by the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs  
 
7  
 
Excess  quantity  p urchases  over  the  
quantity limits specified in  Schedule I 
 
Not  allowed  
No quantity limit is applicable.  
 ( Duty-free operators shall ensure that the 
purchased goods are delivered to the 
Airport for collection by the tourist at the 
time of his departure from Sri Lanka.) 
No quantity limit is applicable.  
 
(Duty-free operators shall ensure that the 
purchased goods are delivered to the Airport for 
collection by the out-bound traveler at the time of 
his departure from Sri Lanka.) 
No quantity limit is applicable.  
(Duty-free operators shall ensure that the goods 
purchased by persons residing outside Sri 
Lanka are delivered to the relevant places 
outside Sri Lanka.) 
 
As approved by the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs  
8  Whether  the  Permitted  Customer  
can  accompany the  family  members 
to  the  Colombo  Port  City  Duty -Free  
Only  the  Permitted  Customer  and one 
family member is allowed.  
Only  the  Permitted  Customer  is 
allowed  
Only the Permitted Customer is allowed  Not  Applicable  As approved by the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs  

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'22
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2024
7a
2  
 
  
 
CONDITIONS OF SALE PERTAINING TO PERMITTED ALLOWANCES SPECIFIED IN SCHEDULE II 
   1. The  permitted goods, permitted quantities and the permitted duty -free allowance specified in the  Schedule I and Schedule II to these  regulations are  applicable  for usage  by  the  p ermitted  customer  at  the  Colombo  Port  City  Duty -Free.  
2. The duty -free allowance specified in Schedule II is valid only for one ye ar from the First  Date  of Arrival  to  Sri Lanka  (FDOA ) and any unutilized allowance expires within one year from FDOA.  
3. The d uty -free allowance specified  in Schedule II is applicable for the Colombo Port City Duty -Free only , and it  is independent of that of any other d uty -free allowances in existence in Sri Lanka.  
4. The p ermitted customers specified in the heading to each column  of Schedule II, shall bear the responsibility for their respective purchases of permitted goods  and the quantities  at the Colombo Port City Duty -Free. , based on  the applicable  transit and final destination compliance 
requirements.  
5. Compliance with the requirements of the payment of all applicable local taxes and restrictions of the carriage during transit and at the final destination shall be the responsibility  of the permitted customers.  
6 . 
 
The permitted goods purchased by the permitted customers at the Colombo Port City Duty -Free shall not be re -sold or exchanged by the p ermitted customer in Sri Lanka. It is solely for the consumption  and use by the permitted customer and his  family members . 
7. The permitted customers shall be 18  years of age or above. Spirit, Wine and Beer as specified in Schedule I may  be purchased by a customer of 18 years of age or above. However, tobacco as specified in Schedule I  can only be purchased by a departing customer of 21 years of age or 
above, to be collected by such customer at the Airport at the time of his departure from Sri Lanka.  
8. No person other than the permitted  customer s  shall be allowed to purchase permitted goods at the Colombo Port City Duty -Free . 
 
priNTEd a T THE dEpar TmENT oF GoVErNmENT priNTiNG,  Sri laNKa.
EoG  04 - 0195