

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA -  01.02.2023
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2317$63 - 2023 fmnrjdß ui 01 jeks nodod - 2023'02'01
No.  2317/63  -  wedNesdAy,  FeBRUARy   01,   2023
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
 seal Ranil WickRemesinghe
1A - G 038937 — 11 (02/2023)
Proclamations & C., by the President 
PROCLAmATION  bY  ThE  hONOuRAbLE  PRESIDENT
sV AsTI !
To all to whom these presents shall come I, Ranil wickremesinghe, President of the democratic socialist Republic of sri 
Lanka, Head of state, Head of the executive and of the Government, and the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces.
send Greetings:
whereas, I am desirous of awarding a Commemorative Medal to all ranks of the Army, Navy and Air Force of the 
democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka to commemorate the 75th Independence Anniversary of sri Lanka.
Now, therefore, it is my will and pleasure to institute, constitute and create a new Medal which will be greatly 
appreciated by all ranks of the Army, Navy and Air Force of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka, who are duly 
qualified to receive the award.
wherefore, the rules and regulations for the governance of same are made ordained and established by me, and 
shall henceforth be inviolably kept:

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA -  01.02.2023
2A
Firstly :
style and decoration – It is ordained that this Medal shall be designated as the “75TH INdePeNdeNCe ANNIVeRsARy 
COMMeMORATIVe MedAL”. 
Secondly : 
 
 description – It is ordained that the Medal shall be of cupronickel and circular chamfered in shape, bearing in relief 
on the obverse in the centre, a design comprising an Eagle in flight, head to sinister, representing the Sri Lanka Air Force, 
superimposed on an Anchor with a chain twined round it representing the sri Lanka Navy, the whole superimposed on two 
crossed swords with points upwards representing the sri Lanka Army, with the state emblem of the Republic of sri Lanka 
depicted above, indicating the service rendered by the Army, Navy and Air Force for the protection of Sri Lanka. The figure 
75 shall be indicated in the centre of the Medal to depict 75 years of sovereignty, and bearing in relief on the reverse shall 
be the state emblem of the Republic of sri Lanka and below it, the inscription “75th Independence Celebration” in sinhala, 
Tamil and english languages, and above the state emblem, the inscription ‘1948-2023’.
Thirdly :
Ribbon - It is ordained that the Medal shall be worn on the left breast suspended from a ribbon 5 cm in length and 3 
cm in width, of which the center part consists of three stripes of green, orange and red of 2 mm, two yellow stripes of 1 mm 
width on either side of it, with three stripes of blue, light blue and orange of 1.5 mm width extending from both sides towards 
the center of the ribbon, and two diamond white stripes of 6.5 mm width between orange and yellow stripes. The stripes of 
blue, light blue and orange of this ribbon represents the Tri-Forces, and diamond white represents the 75th Independence 
Anniversary, yellow stripe represents the four sublime virtues of Meththa (loving kindness), Karuna (compassion), Muditha 
(sympathetic joy) and Upeksha (equanimity). Further, the three stripes of red, orange and green represents sinhala, Tamil 
and Muslim ethnic groups.
Fourthly :
 eligibility - It is ordained that the Medal shall be awarded to all ranks of Regular or V olunteer Forces of the  Army, 
Navy and Air Force of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka who are in active service on the First day of February, 
Two Thousand and Twenty Three (including the participants of basic training courses and officers of National Cadet Corps 
who have been recalled for active service) and who are recommended by the Commander of the Army, Commander of the 
Navy and Commander of the Air Force as appropriate to receive the Award under the terms and conditions defined in the 
regulations hereinafter made. 
Fifthly : 
Registration - It is ordained that the names of all those to whom the Medal is awarded shall be published in the 
respective service orders and a register of such names shall be maintained under the direction of the respective service 
Commanders. 
Sixthly :
Order of wear – It is ordained that in the official list showing the order in which Orders, Decorations and Medals 
shall be worn, the 75TH  INdePeNdeNCe ANNIVeRsARy COMMeMORATIVe MedAL shall be worn after the 50TH  
INdePeNdeNCe ANNIVeRsARy COMMeMORATIVe MedAL reserved for celebrating special achievements/dates.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA -  01.02.2023
3A
Seventhly :
Miniatures -  It is ordained that reproductions in miniature known as miniature Medals, which may be worn on 
certain occasions by those to whom the Medal is awarded, shall be approximately half the size of the Award and a sealed 
pattern of the miniature Medal shall be kept in the Headquarters of the Army, Navy and Air Force.
Eighthly : 
Forfeiture and Restoration – It is ordained that as the President I am vested with the power to cancel and annul the 
award of a Medal made to any person, and the power to restore an award so forfeited under the Regulations hereinafter made. 
The notice of cancellation or restoration in every case shall be published in the respective service orders. 
Given at Presidential secretariat under the Public seal of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka on the 
First day of February Two Thousand and Twenty Three.
     By the Honourable President's command,
             
 e. m. s. B. ekanayake,  
 secretary to the President.
75Th   INDEPENDENCE   ANNIVERSARY   COmmEmORATIVE   mEDAL
ReGULATIONs made by the Honourable President of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka; to grant, forfeit, 
restore the 75th Independence Anniversary Commemorative Medal and other matters in amplification of the provisions set 
out in the Presidential warrant.  
     By the Honourable President's command,
              
 e. m. s. B. ekanayake,  
 secretary to the President.
Presidential secretariat
Colombo - 01,
1st February 2023.
REGuLATIONS   OF  75Th   INDEPENDENCE   ANNIVERSARY   COmmEmORATIVE   mEDAL
1. All ranks of Regular or V olunteer Forces of the Army, Navy and Air Force of the democratic socialist Republic of sri 
Lanka who are in active service on the First day of February, Two Thousand and Twenty Three (including participants 
of basic training courses and officers of National Cadet Corps who have been recalled for active service) and who are 
recommended by the Commander of the Army, Commander of the Navy and Commander of the Air Force as appropriate to 
receive the Award.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA -  01.02.2023
4A
2. The following personnel are not eligible to receive the Medals.
 a. Personnel who are Absence without Leave (AwOL) or have deserted the service as of 1st February 2023.
 b. Those who have malingered, caused self-inflicted injuries and deliberately  avoided duties as of 1st 
February 2023.
3. This Medal may be made posthumously to the next-of-kin of the recipient or a representative nominated by the 
next-of-kin.
4. every recommendation shall be submitted with the Number, Rank and Name in full of the person recommended.
5. The names of persons upon whom the Medal is conferred shall be published in the respective service Orders, and 
a register of all such recipients shall be maintained under the direction of the respective service Commanders. 
6. while being a recipients of the Medal, every military person of the Army, Navy and Air Force who is cashiered, 
discharged with disgrace, removed, who has been called upon to resign his Commission or retire, in the Army, Navy or Air 
Force shall forfeit the Medal conferred on him unless the Honourable President shall otherwise direct.
7. A person who, while being a recipient of the Medal, is convicted of an offence of treason, sedition, mutiny, 
cowardice, disgraceful conduct of an unnatural kind, or is discharged for misconduct or who is convicted by the civil 
authorities while being subject to the laws of the Army, Navy and Air Force, shall forfeit the Medal conferred on him unless 
the Honourable President shall otherwise direct.   
8. A Medal forfeited by any person may be restored by the Honourable President at his discretion.  
9. A notice of forfeiture or restoration shall in every instance be published in the respective service Orders.  
10.  Where an officer, soldier, seaman or airman who is desirous of replacing a Medal that has been lost, a declaration 
must be submitted by the officer, soldier, seaman or airman concerned to his Commanding officer/superior officer, stating 
the circumstances under which the loss occurred. This declaration should then be transmitted to the Honourable President 
through the due process. where the explanation given as to the loss is considered satisfactory, another Medal may be 
obtained in lieu of the lost Medal after due payment. 
11.  In these Regulations, it shall be considered that –
 a. “service” means - The sri Lanka Army
    The sri Lanka Navy   
    The sri Lanka Air Force  
 b. “service Commander” means - The Commander of the Army 
    The Commander of the Navy   
    The Commander of the Air Force 
 c.  “Army” means  - The sri Lanka Army 
  “Navy” means - The sri Lanka Navy 
  “Air Force” means  -  The sri Lanka Air Force 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA -  01.02.2023
5A
75Th   INDEPENDENCE   ANNIVERSARY   COmmEmORATIVE   mEDAL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
eOG  02 - 0267