

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 07.12.2017
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2048$32 - 2017 foieïn¾ ui 07 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2017'12'07
No. 2048/32 - THURSDAY,  DECEMBER  07, 2017
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G 26740 — 457 (12/2017)
STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ACT NO. 14 OF 2008
Notification under Section 3(4)
BY Virtue of the powers vested in me in terms of Section 3(4) of the Strategic Development Projects Act No. 14 of
2008 as amended, I, Malik Samarawickrama, being the Minister in charge of the subject of Development Strategies and
International Trade, do by this Notification-
(1) Identify the Project to restructure the Hambantota Port (Port) development and transform it to be a
commercially viable national asset in collaboration with the Sri Lanka Ports Authority (“Project”) with an
envisaged investment of United States Dollars Six Hundred and Six Million (US$ 606Mn). The Project is to
undertake the management of all the common user facilities and services of the Port of Hambantota such as,
including but not limited to, port security, navigational services, pilotage, anchorage, provision of aids to
navigation, dredging, widening (capital and maintenance), emergency response and pollution control services
(“Project Activity ”) and was published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 2044/20 dated 6
th November,
2017 as per the Section 3(2) of the Strategic Development Projects Act No. 14 of 2008;
(2) State that in terms of Sub- Section (3) of Section (3) of the aforesaid Act, the approval of Cabinet of Ministers has
been obtained to declare the project to restructure the Hambantota Port (Port) development and transform it
to be a commercially viable national asset (“Project”) with an envisaged investment of United States Dollars
Six Hundred and Six Million (US$ 606Mn)as a Strategic Development Project.
(3) Specify that the above Strategic Development Project shall be called and known as the project to restructure the
Hambantota Port (Port) development and transform it to be a commercially viable national asset and the
Project Company to undertake this project is M/S HAMBANTOTA INTERNATIONAL PORT SERVICES
COMPANY (PRIV ATE) LIMITED (“the Project Company);
(4) The Project Company shall implement and commence commercial operations within Seven (07) years upon
approval by resolution of Parliament in terms of Section 3(5) of the Strategic  Development Project Act No. 14
of  2008 as amended.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 07.12.2017
2A
(5) Specify that for the purposes of the aforesaid project, in terms of the Strategic Development Projects
Act No. 14 of 2008 as amended, the exemptions set out in this Notification shall apply to the Project
Company.
SCHEDULE
 (1) The Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006
(i) Corporate Income Tax
The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 relating to the imposition of income tax on
the Project Company on the profit, gain and income generated from the activities from the said Project
shall not apply for a period of twenty-five (25) years (“Tax Exemption Period”).
The said Tax Exemption Period shall commence seven (07) years from the Effective Date of the
Concession Agreement dated 29th July, 2017, for the Port of Hambantota entered between the Sri
Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA), Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (GOSL),
China Merchants Port Holdings Company Limited (CMPort), Hambantota International Port Group
(Private) Limited (HIPG)  and  the Project Company (Concession Agreement).
Provided that after the expiry of the aforesaid Tax Exemption Period income tax in respect of the profits,
gains and income of the Project Company shall be payable in terms of the provisions of the Inland
Revenue Act for the time being in force.
Provided however, the equity transaction or asset transfer that takes place for the entry of the investor to
Hambantota Port Development Project of the Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of
Corporate Income Tax
However, Economic Service Charge (ESC) will be applicable at the rate of 0.05% of gross operation
revenue of the Project during the above Tax Exemption Period.
(ii) Tax on Dividends
Dividends distributed to the shareholders out of the exempted profit, gain shall be exempted from the
income tax during the said Tax Exemption Period of Twenty-five (25) years and one (01) year thereafter
commencing from the Effective Date of the Concession Agreement
(iii) Withholding Tax
The Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of Withholding Tax on the following for a period
of seven (7) years commencing upon approval by resolution of Parliament in terms of Section 3(5) of the
Strategic  Development Project Act No. 14 of  2008 as amended.
(a) on management fees and royalty payments provided however that total of such charges does not
exceed three per centum (3%) of the gross operating revenue;
(b) on marketing fees, provided however the total of such fees does not exceed one point five per
centum (1.5%) of the gross operating revenue; and

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 07.12.2017
3A
(c) on incentive management fees, provided however the total of such fees does not exceed three per
centum (3%) of the gross operating profit.
However, the Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of Withholding Tax on interest on
foreign loans taken for capital expenditure and on technical fees or service fees paid to consultants for
a period of twenty five (25) years commencing upon approval by resolution of Parliament in terms of
Section 3(5) of the Strategic  Development Project Act No. 14 of  2008 as amended.
(iv) PAYE Tax
The expatriate staff of the Project Company shall be exempted from Payment of Pay As You Earn Tax (PAYE)
applicable for a period of seven (7) years, commencing upon approval by resolution of Parliament in terms
of Section 3(5) of the Strategic  Development Project Act No. 14 of  2008 as amended and subject to the
maximum number of Three (3) employees at any given time.
(2) Value Added Tax (VAT) Act No. 14 of 2002
All imports of Project related goods and local purchases of Project related goods or services required for the
implementation of the Project as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, shall be exempted from the
payment of Value Added Tax (V AT), for a period of seven (7) years commencing upon approval by resolution of
Parliament in terms of Section 3(5) of the Strategic  Development Project Act No. 14 of  2008 as amended.   The
exemption in relation to local purchases and imports shall be applicable to the Project Company’s contractor or
sub-contractor for the purposes of the Project.
Provided however, the equity transaction or asset transfer that take place for the entry of the investor to
Hambantota Port Development Project of the Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of V AT.
(3) Ports and Airports Development Levy (PAL) Act No. 18 of 2011
The Project Company shall be exempted from the payment and charge of Ports and Airports Development Levy
(PAL), on the Project related goods, as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, imported during the
seven (7) years commencing upon approval by resolution of Parliament in terms of Section 3(5) of the strategic
Development Project Act No. 14 of  2008 as amended.   The exemption shall be applicable on direct imports by
the Project Company for the Project or on imports by a contractor or sub-contractor for the purposes of the
Project, subject to the conditions referred to in item No. (07) below.
(4) Excise (Special Provision) Act No. 13 of 1989
Import of Project related items, other than vehicles used for travelling, as approved by the Board of Investment
of Sri Lanka shall be exempted from the Excise Duty Payment during the seven (7) years upon approval by
resolution of Parliament in terms of Section 3(5) of the Strategic  Development Project Act No. 14 of  2008 as
amended. The exemption shall be applicable to the Project Company’s contractor or sub-contractor for the
purposes of the Project.
(5) The Sri Lanka Export Development Act No. 40 of 1979
Import of Project related items as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka shall be exempted from the
payment of CESS during the seven (7) years commencing upon approval by resolution of Parliament in terms of
Section 3(5) of the Strategic  Development Project Act No. 14 of  2008 as amended. The exemption shall be
applicable to the Project Company’s contractor or sub-contractor for the purposes of the Project.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 07.12.2017
4A
(6) Nation Building Tax (NBT)
The Project Company, the contractor and the sub – contractors shall be exempted from the Nation Building Tax
during the seven (7) years commencing upon approval by resolution of Parliament in terms of Section 3(5) of the
Strategic  Development Project Act No. 14 of  2008 as amended.
Provided however, the equity transaction or asset transfer that take place for the entry of the investor to
Hambantota Port Development Project of the Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of
NBT.
(7) Customs Duty on Importation of Project Related Items [Customs Ordinance – Chapter 235]
All imports of Project related items, other than vehicles used for travelling, will be exempted from the customs
duty as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, for the purpose of the Project during the seven (7)
years commencing upon the approval by resolution of Parliament in terms of Section 3(5) of the Strategic
Development Project Act No. 14 of  2008 as amended. The exemption from customs duty shall be applicable to
all imports of Project related items required for the Project, whether directly imported by the Project Company or
sourced through the contractors or sub-contractors, as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka
during the seven (7) years, commencing upon approval by resolution of Parliament .  The Items in the Negative
List shall also be exempted from the Customs Duty, provided such items are either not wholly produced in Sri
Lanka or are unavailable in sufficient quality, quantity and time lines for Project completion.
Malik Samarawickrama, MP
Minister of Development Strategies and International Trade.
On this 07th day of  December, 2017.
12- 653
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.