

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 1996$28 - 2016 foieïn¾ ui 06 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2016'12'06
No. 1996/28  -  TUESDAY ,  DECEMBER  06,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notiﬁ cations
1AThis Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
MINUTE  OF  THE SRI  LANKA  FOREIGN  SERVICE 
 
THE following Minute of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service shall substitute without prejudice to any steps taken or purported 
to have been taken in terms of the provisions as per the Sri Lanka Foreign Service Minute, published in the Extraordinary 
Gazette No. 1168/17 dated 24th January, 2001 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Amendments 
thereto published in the Extraordinary Gazette No. 1518/01 dated 08th October, 2007 of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka. 
 
By order of the Public Service Commission, 
 H. M. G
AMINI SENEVIRATHNE,
                Secretary,
 Public Service Commission.
   
No. 177, Nawala Road, 
Narahenpita, 
Colombo 05. 
28th November, 2016.
 

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.12.2016
2A
1.  Name of the Minute & the Effective Date  :  Minute of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service
     This Minute shall come into force with effect from  
    12.10.2015.
2. Appointing Authority     : The Public Service Commission
3. Particulars of the Service Categories:
Service Category Grade
Senior Executive (SL 03 -2016) Special Grade 
Executive (SL 01- 2016) Grade  One (1) 
Grade Two (II) 
Grade Three (III)
4. Role Entrusted to the Service : 
 The Sri Lanka Foreign Service is assigned the responsibility of conducting the foreign relations of Sri Lanka with foreign 
states and business with regional and multilateral organizations, inter -governmental and international organizations 
and the protection and promotion of Sri Lanka’s interests abroad including that of Sri Lankan citizens.
5. Salaries :
5.1 Salary Code No. Senior Executive – (SL 03-2016)
Executive – (SL 01-2016)5.2 Salary Scale
Senior Executive Rs. 88,000-12x2,700-120,400
Executive Rs. 47,615  - 10x1,335–8x1,630 –17x2,170 -  110,895
    
    5.3       Initial Salary step and Salary point relevant to the Grade system  
Grade Initial Salary Step Initial Salary Point  
Grade III Step 1 (SL 01–2016) Rs. 47,615/ -
Grade II Step 12 (SL 01–2016) Rs. 62,595/ - 
Grade I Step 20 (SL 01–2016) Rs. 76,175/ -
Special Grade Step 1 (SL 03- 2016) Rs. 88,000/ -
6. Approved Cadre:
 6.1  Approved Posts and the number of Approved Posts 
Title of the Post Approved Grade for the Posts Number of Approved Posts
Additional Secretary 
 Special Grade 03 
Director General 
 Grade I 10 
Director 
 Grade II 23 
Assistant Director/ 
Deputy Director Grade III 38 
Diplomatic Posts 
 Grade I/II/III 190

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.12.2016
3A
 (i) Posts of Assistant Director and Deputy Director are combined posts and the designation of Deputy 
Director can be used in respect of the ofﬁ cers who have completed 07 years of service in Grade III and 
have earned 07 salary increments.  
 (ii) Although the posts of the Director and the Deputy Director have been approved as Grade II posts and 
Grade III posts respectively, these of ﬁ cers are not entitled for privileges enjoyed by of ﬁ cers holding 
Grade I posts of Director and Grade II posts of Deputy Director in the Public Service executive positions. 
However, Directors of Grade II are entitled for privileges enjoyed by ofﬁ cers holding Grade II posts in 
the executive service category in the Public Service and Deputy Directors of Grade III are entitled for 
privileges enjoyed by of ﬁ cers holding Grade III posts in the Executive service category in the Public 
Service.  
 6.2 Number of combined posts – 261 
  For the purpose of promotion, all Grades  i.e. Grade I, Grade II and Grade III shall be considered to be 
within the combined cadre.  
 6.3 Nature of the posts in the Service   - Permanent and Pensionable 
7.   Mode of Recruitment
 7.1  Ratio of recruitment  - 100% open  
 7.2  Recruitment on open stream 
  7.2.1 Grade to which recruitment is made  - Grade III of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service  
  7.2.2 Quali ﬁ cations 
 
    7.2.2.1  Educational Quali ﬁ cations:
     Should have a degree from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission of Sri 
Lanka (UGC) or an institution, a university recognized by the UGC as an institution of degree 
awarding or a foreign University recognized by the UGC.
    7.2.2.2 Physical Quali ﬁ cations
     Should be physically and mentally ﬁ t to work in any part of the world.
   7.2.2.3  Other
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka (Those who have dual nationality should rescind their 
foreign nationality in the event they are selected to the SLFS and should not acquire the 
nationality of any other country during their Service.).
 (ii) No person ordained in any religious order shall be eligible to apply or sit for this exami-
nation.
 (iii) Applicants should be of excellent character.
 (iv) No person shall be eligible to sit for this examination on more than three occasions 
 (v) All the necessary quali ﬁ cations shall have been completed on the date as stated in the 
relevant Gazette Notiﬁ cation. 
  7.2.3  Age Limit :
 
    7.2.3.1 Minimum Age limit : 22 years 
    7.2.3.2 Maximum Age limit : 28 years 
     A candidate who is already in the Public Service, should not have attained the age of 35 years on 
the date stated in the relevant Gazette Notiﬁ cation. 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.12.2016
4A
  7.2.4.  Method of Recruitment 
     7.2.4.1 Written Examination : 
 Subject 
 
Maximum 
Marks Pass Marks 
General Paper 100 40
World Affairs I 100 40
World Affairs II 100 40
Essay 100 40
Précis 50 25
Multiple Choice Question Paper 150 75
Language Proﬁ ciency 100 40
Total Marks 700
 
The relevant syllabus and the details of the written examination have been given in Appendix ‘A’. 
 
   7.2.4.1.1 Conducting Authority of the written examination:  Commissioner General of Examinations 
   7.2.4.2  Professional Examination:   Not applicable 
  7.2.4.3 Interview for the assessment of eligibility: The interview for the assessment of eligibility will be conducted 
as per the marking scheme approved by the Public Service Commission.
  
Note:  
 1. Only the candidates who have obtained the minimum total marks not less than 350 in all seven (07) papers of 
the written examination shall be called for the interview for the assessment of eligibility provided, however, 
the Number of candidates to be called shall not exceed ﬁ ve times the Number of vacancies to be ﬁ lled. 
 
 2. The interview for the assessment of eligibility will be conducted by an interview board approved by the 
Public Service Commission. 
 
 3. The marks scored at the written examination will not be made available to the interview for the assessment 
of eligibility board. 
 
 4. The merit order will be made on the total aggregate of marks obtained at the written examination and the 
interview for the assessment of eligibility. Appointment will be made by the Public Service Commission 
on the merit order and the number of vacancies. 
 7.2.4.4. General Interview:   Marks will not be given. 
  Objectives :  To check whether the quali ﬁ cations mentioned in the Sri Lanka Foreign Service Minute 
and the Gazette Notiﬁ cation published as per the above Minute have been fulﬁ lled and to examine the 
physical ﬁ tness. 
 
 7.2.5  Method of calling applications: 
   Through the Government Gazette, Public notiﬁ cations and the Ministry website.  
 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.12.2016
5A
08.  Efﬁ ciency Bar Examination :
  8.1 
Efﬁ ciency Bar 
Examination Duration to pass the Efﬁ ciency Bar Examination Nature of the Efﬁ ciency Bar 
Examination 
1 st  Efﬁ ciency Bar Before completing three (03) years from the date 
of recruitment to the Service 
Details are shown in Appendix ‘B’ 
(I) 
2 nd  Efﬁ ciency Bar Before completing three (03) years after 
promotion to the Grade II of the Service 
Details are shown in Appendix ‘B’ 
(II) 
3 rd  Efﬁ ciency Bar Before completing (05) years after promotion to 
the Grade I of the Service 
Details are shown in Appendix ‘B’ 
(III) 
 
Note: The scope and standard of the Ef ﬁ ciency Bar examination are prescribed in Appendix “B”.  
 8.2. The Ef ﬁ ciency Bar Examinations shall be held twice a year in Sri Lanka and at Sri Lanka Missions abroad.
 
 8.3.  Conducting Authority of the Ef ﬁ ciency Bar Examination  - Commissioner General of Examination.
09. Language Proﬁ ciency :
                 Language Required Pro ﬁ ciency  
Ofﬁ cial Language An of ﬁ cer who is quali ﬁ ed for the appointment to the SLFS in another 
language other than the ofﬁ cial languages is required to attain proﬁ ciency in 
one of the ofﬁ cial languages before the conﬁ rmation. 
Other ofﬁ cial language Prescribed level of pro ﬁ ciency should be acquired as per the provisions 
specified in Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014 and other 
consequential circulars. 
Link Language (English) An of ﬁ cer who had qualiﬁ ed for the appointment to the SLFS either in Sinhala 
or Tamil should fulﬁ ll the link language requirement by securing an ordinary 
pass in link language (English) at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination. 
Note:  An officer shall be exempted from the link language (English) 
requirement if he/she had quali ﬁ ed for the appointment to the SLFS in the 
English medium. 
Foreign Language An of ﬁ cer in Grade III of the SLFS shall be required to attain pro ﬁ ciency 
in the assigned foreign language by securing a minimum of 40% marks to 
qualify for a pass at the Departmental Examination or an ordinary pass at the 
G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) within seven (07) years from the date of recruitment 
to the SLFS.
    9.1.1  The Ministry shall provide at its cost, the necessary facilities for the SLFS of ﬁ cer to acquire a 
higher level of proﬁ ciency in the link language (English) in Sri Lanka during the ﬁ rst three (03) 
years following the appointment.  
  9.2.  Foreign Languages :
    9.2.1  The designated foreign languages for the purpose of fulﬁ llment of the foreign language requirement 
are as follows:
     Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Hindi, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Russian and Spanish languages. 
Note:  Secretary/Foreign Affairs may revise the list of designated foreign languages from time 
to time, taking into consideration the focus of Sri Lanka’s foreign policy and current 
global trends. 

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.12.2016
6A
     9.2.2 The Ministry shall provide at its cost, the necessary facilities, including the payment of tuition 
fees for ofﬁ cers to acquire the prescribed level of pro ﬁ ciency in the assigned foreign language 
within the stipulated period. The liability of the Ministry for payment of tuition fees would cease 
on completion of the prescribed course, irrespective of whether or not the of ﬁ cer passes the 
prescribed examination within the stipulated period. 
 
    9.2.3  The Commissioner General of Examinations, at the request of the Secretary, shall conduct the 
above foreign language proﬁ ciency examinations twice a year.  
 
    9.2.4  The designated foreign language of the of ﬁ cer shall be taken into consideration when the ofﬁ cer 
is considered for his/her ﬁ rst posting abroad. 
10.    Promotion to Grades :
 10.1   Promotion from Grade III to Grade II   
  10.1.1  According to General Performance 
   10.1.1.1 Requirements to be completed; 
 (i)  Should be con ﬁ rmed in the SLFS. 
 (ii)  Should have completed at least ten (10) years of active & satisfactory service in Grade III 
Service Category and earned ten (10) salary increments. 
 (iii) Should have shown a satisfactory or a higher performance within the preceding ten (10) years 
from the due date of promotion as per the approved performance appraisal procedure.  
 (iv) Should have completed a satisfactory service within the preceding ﬁ ve (05) years after 
becoming eligible for promotion. 
 (v) Should have acquired pro ﬁ ciency in the other ofﬁ cial language at the prescribed standard. 
 (vi) Should have completed the prescribed Ef ﬁ ciency Bar Examination on the due date. 
 (vii) Should have acquired pro ﬁ ciency in the foreign language at the prescribed standard on the 
due date. 
 (viii) Should have acquired pro ﬁ ciency in the link language at the prescribed standard on the due 
date.  
 
   10.1.1.2  Scheme of Promotion   
     Of ﬁ cers who fulﬁ lled the required qualiﬁ cations should make a request in the prescribed form to 
the Appointing Authority. The ofﬁ cers who are eligible will be promoted to Grade II, on veriﬁ cation 
of the qualiﬁ cations by the Appointing Authority with effect from the date of fulﬁ llment of all the 
relevant requirements. 
  
 10.2  Promotion from Grade II to Grade I 
  10.2.1 Requirements to be completed:  
 (i)  Should have completed at least seven (07) years active and satisfactory service in Grade II Service 
category and earned seven (07) salary increments.
 (ii) Should have passed the second Efﬁ ciency Bar examination on the due date.   
 (iii) Should have completed a period of satisfactory service during the preceding ﬁ ve (5) years from the 
date of gaining eligibility for promotion.
 (iv) Should have shown a satisfactory or a higher level performance during the preceding seven (07) years 
of gaining eligibility for promotion.
 (v) Should have obtained a postgraduate degree in International Relations or an equivalent qualiﬁ cation 
from a university recognized by the UGC or an institution, a university recognized by the UGC as an 
institution of degree awarding or a foreign University recognized by the UGC, as per Appendix D.  
  

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.12.2016
7A
  10.2.2  Scheme of Promotion:  
   Of ﬁ cers who have fulﬁ lled the required qualiﬁ cations should make a request to the appointing authority. 
The ofﬁ cers who are eligible will be promoted to Grade I, on veri ﬁ cation of the quali ﬁ cations by the 
Appointing Authority with effect from the date of fulﬁ llment of all the relevant requirements. 
 
 10.3  Promotion from Grade I to the Special Grade 
   10.3.1 Quali ﬁ cations to be completed:  
  (i) Should have obtained a Post Graduate Degree in the relevant ﬁ eld. 
  (ii) Should have completed ﬁ ve (05) years of active and satisfactory service in Grade I of the Sri Lanka 
Foreign Service by the date of gaining eligibility for promotion and earned ﬁ ve (05) salary increments 
after being promoted to Grade I. 
  (iii) Should have completed not less than eighteen (18) years of active service by the date of gaining 
eligibility. 
  (iv) Performance in work should have been at a satisfactory or higher level during the ﬁ ve (05) years 
period immediately before the date of gaining eligibility for promotion. 
  (v) Should have passed the third Ef ﬁ ciency Bar Examination by the due date. 
 
  10.3.2. Scheme of Promotion 
   Three times (03) of of ﬁ cers not more than the existing number of vacancies in the Special Grade will be 
called for the interview in the order of seniority in grade I. The quali ﬁ cations of the applicants will be 
checked by an Interview Board appointed by the Public Service Commission to ascertain whether the 
applicants possess all the required quali ﬁ cations and marks will be given at the structured interview in 
keeping with a scheme approved by the Public Service Commission. Vacancies will be ﬁ lled by making 
appointments on the basis of the marks obtained at the structured interview. 
 
Note: In making promotions on the basis of the general level of performance, the promotions of the of ﬁ cers 
who have not passed the Efﬁ ciency Bar Examinations by the due date, will be deferred by a period equal 
to the period between the due date and the date of passing the Efﬁ ciency Bar Examinations.   
11.  Appointment to posts  
 The designation of an of ﬁ cer in the Sri Lanka Foreign Service when attached for service in the Ministry will be as 
follows:   
  Position Method of Appointment  Appointing Authority  
(i) Assistant Director Appointments will be made from the 
ofﬁ cers in Grade III or a higher grade 
Secretary  to  the Ministry in charge
of the subject of Foreign Affairs 
(ii) Deputy Director 
Appointments will be made from the 
ofﬁ cers of Grade III with seven (07) 
years service or those in a higher grade  
Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the 
subject of Foreign Affairs 
(iii) Director Appointments will be made from the 
ofﬁ cers in Grade II or a higher grade 
Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the 
subject of Foreign Affairs 
(iv) Director General 
Appointments will be made from the 
officers in Grade I on the basis of 
seniority and merit.  
Public  Service  Commission  
(v) Additional Secretary Appointments will be made from the 
ofﬁ cers in the  special grade. Public Service  Commission 
  

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.12.2016
8A
12.  Conditions related to the Service 
 12.1 Conditions for the con ﬁ rmation in the Service 
  12.1.1 Period of Probation 
  12.1.1.1  All appointments to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service shall be subjected to a three 
year probation period.
 12.1.1.2  During the period of probation, an of ﬁ cer will be required to pass the ﬁ rst Ef ﬁ ciency Bar 
Examination, to fulﬁ ll the requirements of proﬁ ciency in one of the ofﬁ cial languages and also 
to reach the prescribed level of pro ﬁ ciency in the link language (English) within three years 
from the date of appointment.  
 
  12.1.2.   Conﬁ rmation    
   If the of ﬁ cer at the end of the period of probation has fulﬁ lled all the requirements for conﬁ rmation and 
if the ofﬁ cer’s work and conduct are deemed to have been satisfactory, the ofﬁ cer will be conﬁ rmed 
in his/her appointment in the Sri Lanka Foreign Service by the appointing authority as per Chapter 
III of the Public Service Commission Procedural Rules. 
 
 12.2 Training and development    
  Training shall be considered as a continuing process intended to equip the Sri Lanka Foreign Service Cadre 
from entry throughout their career to perform responsibilities professionally, efﬁ ciently and effectively. New 
recruits during their period of probation should be provided with at least six months of a multifaceted and 
comprehensive induction training programme aimed at inter-alia to inculcate a strong sense of the country’s 
history and culture, knowledge of diplomatic practice, international relations, economics, technology, 
communication and mass media and principles of politics as well as administration, ﬁ nance, information 
technology and Consular functions and any other areas as deemed necessary. 
  In  service training is provided for career of ﬁ cers at different levels of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service with the 
intension of meeting professional and career advancement in keeping with the requirements of the Ministry.  
 
13.   Deﬁ nitions and interpretations :
“The Ministry” shall mean the Ministry to which the subject of Foreign Affairs is assigned. 
 
“The Secretary” shall  mean the Secretary to the Ministry to which the subject of Foreign Affairs is assigned. 
“The Sri Lanka Foreign Service” shall mean the corps of permanent and pensionable career ofﬁ cers charged with the 
responsibility of conducting the foreign relations of Sri Lanka which in abbreviation, will be cited as the SLFS.  
“Sri Lanka Mission/Post” shall mean a High Commission, Embassy, Of ﬁ ce of the Permanent Representative, 
Consulate General, Consulate or any other diplomatic or Consular ofﬁ ce maintained by the Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs on behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka abroad.
“Head of Mission” shall mean a High Commissioner, Ambassador, Permanent Representative, Acting Permanent 
Representative to the United Nations and its specialized Agencies and other inter  governmental organiza-
tions who shall be in the position of being principally responsible for all activities conducted by a Sri Lanka 
Mission abroad.
“Head of Post” shall mean any person who, not being a Head of Mission, has been placed in charge of a Sri Lanka 
diplomatic, commercial, consular or information of ﬁ ce in a foreign country or territory, but shall be under 
the supervision of the Head of Mission accredited or concurrently accredited to the  country where the Post 
is situated. 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.12.2016
9A
“Period of active service” means the period of service of an ofﬁ cer, drawing the salary assigned to his post, excluding 
any period of no-pay leave other than periods of approved no-pay leave for speci ﬁ c purposes, which have 
been recognized by the cabinet of Ministers as a policy.
“Deferment of salary increment” means  a permanent setting back of a salary increment. The consequent loss of 
salary increment is continuous until the ofﬁ cer reaches the maximum salary step of his/her class.
“Service Minute” means the Sri Lanka Foreign Service Minute.
“Date of Implementation” means the date on which this Minute comes into operation. 
“Public Service Commission” means the Public Service Commission appointed in terms of the provisions of Article 
54 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. 
 
“Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission ” means  the Rules of Procedure of the Public Service 
Commission as published in the Extraordinary Government Gazette Notiﬁ cation No. 1589/30 dated 20th   
February 2009.  
 
14.    Absorption of SLFS Ofﬁ cers to the New System of Grades 
 14.1  All of ﬁ cers who are in the SLFS on the date of implementation of this Service Minute shall be absorbed 
into the Grading System as given below. There shall not be any change whatsoever in the salaries or in the 
date of increment or date of promotion into their respective Grade or the seniority of the ofﬁ cers due to the 
absorption. 
 (i) 
All ofﬁ cers in Grade III of the SLFS on the date of implementation shall be absorbed to Grade III of 
the Service  
 (ii) All ofﬁ cers in Grade II of the SLFS on the date of implementation shall be absorbed to Grade II of 
the Service   
 (iii) All ofﬁ cers in Grade I of the SLFS on the date of implementation shall be absorbed to the Grade I of 
the Service  
15. Transitional Provisions 
 The transitional period will be effective for three (03) years from the date of the publication of this Minute. 
 15.1  During the transitional period, Promotions from one Grade to another will be effected as follows:  
 15.1.1. Promotion from Grade I to the Special Grade   
 (i)  An of ﬁ cer absorbed to Grade I under the provisions of Section 14 of this Minute will be eligible 
for promotion to the Special Grade provided he/she has ful ﬁ lled all the quali ﬁ cations except 
those mentioned under Sub Sections (i) and (v) of Section 10.3.1.   
 15.1.2.  Promotion from Grade II to Grade I   
 (i)   An of ﬁ cer absorbed to Grade II under the provisions of Section 14 of this Minute will be 
eligible for promotion to Grade 1 provided he/she has ful ﬁ lled the qualiﬁ cations under 10.2.1 
of the Service Minute. However, the requirement for the ful ﬁ llment of quali ﬁ cations under 
Sub section (v) of 10.2.1 will not apply regarding the promotion of of ﬁ cers recruited before 
01.01.2001 from Grade II to Grade I during the transitional period. 
  15.1.3.    Promotion from Grade III to Grade II   
 (i)  An of ﬁ cer absorbed to grade III under the provisions of the Section 14 of this Service Minute 
will be eligible for promotion from Grade III to Grade II if he/she has fulﬁ lled the qualiﬁ cations 
under 10.1.1 of this Service Minute.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.12.2016
10A
 15.2.1 For ofﬁ cers absorbed to Grade III 
 (i)  Of ﬁ cers who have already passed the ﬁ rst Efﬁ ciency Bar   Examination are deemed to have passed 
the ﬁ rst Efﬁ ciency Bar  Examination mentioned in this Service Minute.
 (ii) Grade III of ﬁ ces who have failed in one or more subjects in the ﬁ rst Ef ﬁ ciency Bar Examination 
should obtain a pass in the appropriate subjects mentioned in this Minute at the ﬁ rst Efﬁ ciency Bar 
Examination. 
    
15.2.2.  For ofﬁ cers absorbed to Grade II  
 (i)  Of ﬁ cers in Grade III/II who have already passed the second Ef ﬁ ciency Bar Examination are 
deemed to have passed the second Efﬁ ciency Bar Examination mentioned in this minute.
 (ii) Grade III/II of ﬁ cers who have failed in one or more subjects in the second Ef ﬁ ciency Bar 
examination should obtain a pass in the appropriate subjects mentioned in this minute at the 
second Efﬁ ciency Bar Examination. 
  
15.2.3.  For ofﬁ cers absorbed to Grade I
 (i) Third Ef ﬁ ciency Bar Examination is not a requisite for Grade 1 of ﬁ cers of the Sri Lanka 
Foreign Service who have completed ﬁ ve (05) years of active and satisfactory service.
 (ii)  Grade I Of ﬁ cers of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service who have not completed ﬁ ve (05) years of 
active and satisfactory service will be allowed a concessionary period of three (03) years to 
appear for the third Efﬁ ciency Bar Examination. This concessionary period of three (03) years 
will be applied only in the case of ofﬁ cers who are in Grade I by the date on which this Service 
Minute becomes effective.  
 
15.3  Ofﬁ cers recruited in keeping with the Sri Lanka Foreign Service Minute published  in  the Gazette No. 1168/17 
of 24th  January 2001 should acquire the relevant level of Proﬁ ciency in the Second language mentioned in that 
Minute.  
 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.12.2016
11A
Appendix “A”
Details of the Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment of Ofﬁ cers to grade III of the Sri Lanka Foreign 
Service
 
(1)   Scheme of Examination 
Part ‘A’  
Written examination consists of the following question papers :
Subject Time duration Total marks Minimum mark
requirement for a pass
i General Paper 03 hours 100 40 
ii World Affairs I 03 hours 100 40 
iii World Affairs II 03 hours 100 40 
iv Essay 03 hours 100 40 
v. Précis  30 minutes 50 25 
vi. Multiple choice question paper 02 hours &
30 minutes 150 75 
vii. Language Pro ﬁ ciency paper 03 hours 100 40 
   Total Marks 700  
 
  
 
Part ‘B’ 
Interview for the assessment of eligibility
Interview: 
Only the candidates who appear for all seven papers and have obtained marks at or above the minimum pass marks as 
indicated at paragraph 7.2.4.1 in each of the seven papers of the written examination and have obtained the aggregate 
at or above the cutoff point determined by the Secretary, which will not be less than 350 marks, shall be called for the 
viva voce. However, the number of candidates to be called for the viva voce shall not exceed ﬁ ve times the number of 
vacancies to be ﬁ lled.  The viva voce will carry 100 marks.  
Marks scored at the written examination will not be made available to the interview Board. 
The interview for the assessment of eligibility for the assessment of candidates will be held in consultation with the 
Public Service Commission.  
Note: 
 (i) Candidates are required to answer all the seven (07) question papers  
 (ii)  The Public Service Commission will determine the number of of ﬁ cers to be recruited. 
    
(2)   Language medium of the Examination  
 (i) The examination will be conducted in medium of Sinhala, Tamil and English
 (ii) Candidates can appear for the examination in any one of the above  languages of their choice. 
Note:   
 (i) Candidates should answer all the question papers only in one language 
 (ii) Candidates will not be allowed to change at the examination the language medium indicated in the application. 
 

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.12.2016
12A
(3)       Method of selection for appointment  
 
 The selection for appointment of of ﬁ cers to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service will be made only on merit 
basis in accordance with the total aggregate marks obtained at the written examination and the viva voce taken together. 
Appointments will be made by the Public Service Commission on the recommendation of the Secretary. 
  
(4)      Syllabus  
 
 Papers (i) to (iv) and the paper (vii) mentioned in the paragraph (1) of Part “A” will be of three (03) hour duration 
and will carry 100 marks each. The Précis paper will be of 30 minutes duration and will carry 50 marks. The Multiple 
Choice Question Paper will be of two hours and 30 minutes duration and will carry 150 marks. 
 
 General Paper  – This paper is designed to assess the candidates’ knowledge on political, social, cultural and economic 
environment of Sri Lanka, matters of current national and international interest as well as scientiﬁ c and technological 
development. 
 
 World Affairs I  – This paper will consist of questions on current global political developments, the United Nations 
and other international organizations, conﬂ ict situations and development of various national and international move-
ments, in order to ascertain the candidate’s ability to analyze global trends for peace, security and development and 
their impact on Sri Lanka. 
 
 World Affairs II  – This paper will consist of questions on recent trends of economic development, including the impact 
of international organizations, regional economic groupings, issues such as environment and sustainable development 
and their relevance to Sri Lanka. 
 
 Essay  – Candidates are required to write an essay on one or more speciﬁ ed subjects. These subjects will not be related 
to any particular subject in the ﬁ eld of education but will be designed to test the candidates’ general knowledge and the 
general ability in thinking and expression. The essay will be judged by the degree of thinking power and originality 
in its treatment of the subject as well as by its language, style and presentation. 
 
 Précis  – This paper which will consist of two parts, is designed to ascertain the candidate’s ability to comprehend the 
meaning of given passages and to express them attractively and concisely. 
 
 Multiple Choice Question Paper  – This paper will consist of the following two parts, each of which will include 50 
questions and carry 75 marks. 
 
 ( a)  Intelligence Test – This section is to assess the ability of logical reasoning and analytical skills of candidates.  
(Duration   75 minutes) 
 
 ( b)  General Knowledge and Current Affairs – This section is to evaluate the candidates’ knowledge on domestic and 
global developments in the political, economic and socio -cultural ﬁ elds, both local and international. (Duration   
75 minutes) 
 
 Language Pro ﬁ ciency paper  - This paper is designed to ascertain the candidate’s Language Proﬁ ciency. (There are 
three papers in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages and the total marks allocated for this paper is 100.The duration 
of the question paper is 03 hours.) The candidates who appear for the examination in Sinhala and Tamil medum should 
sit for a paper in English language and those who appear for the examination in the English medium should sit for a 
paper in the Sinhala or Tamil language. 
 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.12.2016
13A
APPENDIX “B” 
DETAILS OF THE FIRST & SECOND EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATIONS AND THE THIRD EFFICIENCY 
BAR FOR OFFICERS IN THE SRI LANKA FOREIGN SERVICE 
 
I.     First Efﬁ ciency Bar Examination 
 The First Ef ﬁ ciency Bar Examination will consist of two parts and ofﬁ cers may take both parts at one sitting or sep-
arately. 
 Part One – The Examination consists of the following subjects – 
 (i) Finance –  This paper will be the same as that of the First Ef ﬁ ciency Bar Examination for ofﬁ cers appointed 
to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service. A candidate should obtain at least 40% of marks for 
a pass. 
 
 (ii) History and Geography of Sri Lanka 
 
Part Two – Special Papers –   
 (i) Elementary Constitutional Law and the International Law
 (ii) Diplomatic Practice
 (iii) International Affairs 
 (iv) The Sri Lanka Foreign Service Minute, Foreign Affairs Ministry Regulations and Computer Literacy 
 
1. Each paper in Part one and Part two will be of three (03) hour duration and candidates will be required to obtain 
a minimum of 40% marks in each paper for a pass. 
 
2. An ofﬁ cer will be permitted to sit each paper separately on any number of occasions and will be deemed to have 
passed the relevant part when he/she has obtained the qualifying marks in respect of each paper. 
 
Note   : Questions on Constitutional Law will be mainly on the evolution of the Parliamentary System of Gov-
ernment and the constitutional development of Sri Lanka, with special reference to the Constitution of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. Questions on International Law will include inter  State relations, 
both bilateral and multilateral, and the rights and duties of States in relation to Diplomatic Law and the Law 
of Treaties.  
  
II.  Second Efﬁ ciency Bar Examination 
 The Second Ef ﬁ ciency Bar Examination will consist of two parts and of ﬁ cers may take both parts at one sitting or 
separately. 
 
 Part I – The Examination consists of the following subjects –    
 (i) Economic and Social Development in Sri Lanka 
 (ii) Administration – This paper will be based on the following:  
 i. Of ﬁ ce Systems and Organizational Methods 
 ii. Establishments Code  
  Chapters 1, II, III, V , VI, VII, IX, XI, XXIII, XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, 
XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII, and XLVIII and V olume II. 
 Part  II – Special Papers   
 (i)  Elementary Constitutional Law and International Law 
 (ii) Diplomatic Practice 
 (iii) International Affairs 
 

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.12.2016
14A
1. Each paper in Part I and Part II above will be of three (03) hour duration and candidates will be required to obtain a 
minimum of 40% marks in each paper for a pass.
2. An of ﬁ cer will be permitted to sit each paper separately on any number of occasions and will be deemed to have passed 
the relevant Paper, when he/she has obtained the qualifying marks in respect of each paper. 
III.  The Third Efﬁ ciency Bar Examination 
1. All of ﬁ cers should participate in the training programme conducted by the Bandaranaike International Diplomatic 
Training Institute (BIDTI) for the enhancement of management and leadership skills of Grade I of ﬁ cers in the Sri 
Lanka Foreign Service.  
2. Duration of the course: Part time   - 8 weeks and Full time  -  one month 
  
APPENDIX “C” 
POST  GRADUATE QUALIFICATIONS FOR PROMOTION OF OFFICERS FROM GRADE II TO GRADE I 
OF THE SRI LANKA FOREIGN SERVICE 
 
1. All ofﬁ cers should possess a post  graduate degree in International Relations or in a relevant ﬁ eld from a University or 
a Degree awarding Institution recognized by the University Grants Commission. 
 
2. The Ministry shall provide, the necessary facilities for of ﬁ cers who have registered for a post  graduate degree or a 
higher qualiﬁ cation as stipulated at paragraph 1 above, after having completed their First Efﬁ ciency Bar Examination, 
Second Efﬁ ciency Bar Examination, the ofﬁ cial language/s, link language and foreign language requirements within 
the stipulated period, to acquire the prescribed qualiﬁ cation. 
 
3. The ﬁ nancial liability of the Ministry in respect of the reimbursement of the registration, tuition and examination fees 
incurred by the ofﬁ cer to acquire the post  graduate degree qualiﬁ cation stipulated at paragraph 1 above shall be restricted 
to the cost of the corresponding fee of the Master of Arts (MA) in International Relations programme conducted by 
the University of Colombo.  
Schedule “A” 
1.    Diplomatic Ranks in Missions/Posts and Designations in the Ministry  
1.1.   Diplomatic Rank of an ofﬁ cer of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service when posted  abroad will be as follows: 
 
(i) Third Secretary - on appointment to Grade III 
(ii) Second Secretary  - on completion of four years in Grade III and having earned all annual increments within 
that period. 
(iii) First Secretary -  on completion of seven (07) years in Grade III and having earned all annual increments 
within that period 
(iv)
 
Counsellor  - on promotion to Grade II  
(v) Minister Counsellor - on completion of two years in Grade II and having  earned all    annual increments within 
that period
(vi) Minister
  
- on completion of ﬁ ve years in Grade II and having earned all annual increments. The posts 
of Deputy Head of Mission, Deputy High Commissioner and Consul General may be 
granted to SLFS ofﬁ cers holding the rank of Minister in Missions where such posts exist 
or are to be created. 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.12.2016
15A
(vii) Ambassador - on promotion to Grade I, the of ﬁ cers in Grade I, holding the ranks of Deputy Chief of 
Mission, Deputy High Commissioner, Consul General or Minister shall be given the rank 
of Ambassador.  
(viii) Head of Chancery - the most Senior Foreign Service Of ﬁ cer serving in the Mission/Post other than the Head 
of Mission/Post has to be appointed as the Head of Chancery.  
 
 1.2. Appointment of Heads of Missions; 
  Heads of Missions shall be appointed by the Head of State on the recommendations of the Minister of Foreign 
Affairs. 
 
 1.3.  Local Diplomatic Ranks .– on the recommendation of the Head of Mission, an ofﬁ cer of the Sri Lanka For-
eign Service may be granted the next rank by the Secretary. The only additional monetary beneﬁ t that such an 
ofﬁ cer will be entitled to is the representational allowance applicable to the higher post in lieu of the allowance 
applicable to the ofﬁ cer’s substantive rank. 
 
 1.4.  Acting Head of Mission .– The most senior con ﬁ rmed ofﬁ cer in the Sri Lanka Foreign Services below the 
Head of Mission will in normal circumstances act for the Head of Mission when the latter is absent from the 
station or when the position is vacant. Exceptionally, however, the Secretary may determine any other acting 
arrangements to be made in respect of a Mission in which an ofﬁ cer of the SLFS is not serving. 
 
Schedule “B” 
 
1.  General Conditions  
 1.1 Payment of allowances and reimbursement of expenses  
  Allowances and expenses payable to SLFS of ﬁ cers serving in Sri Lanka Missions/Posts abroad during their tour 
of duty in accordance with Foreign Ministry Regulations will be as follows:-  
 1.1.1 Payment of Allowances: 
 (i) Overseas Allowance.– Payable to SLFS of ﬁ cers, provided that it is made with the approval of the 
General Treasury on the recommendation made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from time to time 
by taking into consideration the cost of living of the respective station :- 
 ( a) The quantum of allowance payable should be the same, irrespective of the civil status of the 
ofﬁ cer. 
 ( b) When an ofﬁ cer serving in a Mission/Post is on leave abroad for a period not exceeding 21 days, 
the ofﬁ cer will retain the full monthly allowance. 
 ( c) When the leave abroad exceeds 21 days, but does not exceed 45 days, the ofﬁ cer will retain 75% 
of the allowance. 
 ( d) When the leave exceeds 45 days, the proportion of allowance, if any, which the ofﬁ cer may draw, 
will be determined by the Secretary. 
 ( e) When the ofﬁ cer is on leave for a period not exceeding 30 days in the country of posting, the 
ofﬁ cer shall retain the full monthly allowance; thereafter, the proportion of allowance to be paid 
to the ofﬁ cer will be determined by the Secretary. 
 (ii) Acting Allowance.– Payable to ofﬁ cers who act as Heads of Missions for a continuous period exceeding 
one calendar month. 
 (iii) Special Duty Allowance.– A SLFS ofﬁ cer serving in a Mission/Post abroad shall be paid a Special 
Duty Allowance during times of civil unrest or instability, such as civil war or prevalence of warlike 
conditions, terrorist attacks and other grave natural or man-made disasters which threaten, harm or 
pose imminent danger to the health and well being of the ofﬁ cer, and or his/her family, as determined 
by the Secretary, with the concurrence of the Secretary to the Treasury. This allowance will be equal 
to 25% of the monthly overseas service allowance. The duration of payment of the allowance will be 
determined by the Secretary in consultation with the Secretary to the Treasury. 

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.12.2016
16A
    1.1.2. Reimbursement of expenditure 
 ( i) Representational Allowance 
 ( a) An ofﬁ cer of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service when serving abroad will receive a monthly 
allowance to meet the expenditure incurred for representational purposes. 
 ( b) When an of ﬁ cer of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service is acting as the Head of Mission for a 
continuous period exceeding three calendar months, he/she shall be entitled to claim the 
Representational Allowance in terms of regulations in force in the Ministry. 
  (ii) Education of Children 
 ( a) With the approval of the Secretary, payments can be made to settle the tuition fees, school 
fees and other fees in respect of a maximum of two children of an ofﬁ cer of the Sri Lanka 
Foreign Service up to the completion of the secondary education of the  two children 
simultaneously at a time if so required. 
 ( b) This facility may be extended to the of ﬁ cers of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service serving at 
the Ministry subject to the regulations in force in the Ministry. 
 
 (iii)  Medical treatment 
  In terms of Section 2.2 and the regulations of the Ministry, medical expenses of an of ﬁ cer of 
the Sri Lanka Foreign Service together with those of his/her family are payable when he/she is 
serving in a Mission. 
 
 (iv) Out ﬁ t and special outﬁ t allowances   
  Out ﬁ t allowances and special outﬁ t allowances are payable to an ofﬁ cer in the Sri Lanka Foreign 
Service according to his/her Grade when serving in a Mission/Post abroad. In terms of the 
regulations in force in the Ministry, an of ﬁ cer posted to a Mission/Post abroad in a temperate 
climate will receive a special outﬁ t allowance in addition to the normal outﬁ t allowance. 
  
(v) Heating and Cooling of Residence 
   Allowances for heating and cooling of residences are payable to of ﬁ cers of the Sri Lanka 
   Foreign Service in accordance with the regulations of the Ministry. 
 
 1.2  The quantum of the above allowances and the manner of their disbursement will be determined by the 
Secretary in consultation with the Treasury and the Ministry of Public Administration. 
 1.3  In each change of station, the costs incurred in respect of packing, insurance and transport of an of ﬁ cer’s 
personal belongings and his/her motor vehicles, will also be borne by the Government in accordance with 
the regulations of the Ministry. 
 
 1.4 While serving in a Mission/Post abroad, furnished accommodation for an of ﬁ cer in the Sri Lanka Foreign 
Service will be provided by the Government at its cost. 
 2. Leave and Passages 
 
 2.1  In accordance with the Ministry regulations and 2.2, the cost of air passages for the of ﬁ cer and members of 
his/her family to go to the Mission/Post abroad and to return to Sri Lanka will be met by the Government. 
 
 2.2  For the purpose of air passages and medical allowances the members of the of ﬁ cer’s family include 
 (i) 
The spouse of the ofﬁ cer 
 (ii) In case of an unmarried, divorced or widowed of ﬁ cer a member of the of ﬁ cer’s own family, subject 
to the prior approval of the Secretary 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.12.2016
17A
 (iii) Ofﬁ cer’s unmarried children under 21 years of age who are dependents of the ofﬁ cer and physically 
or mentally retarted children irrespective of the age limit if they are dependents of the ofﬁ cer. 
 (iv) A maximum of two domestic servants in case of ofﬁ cers serving as Heads of Missions or Ambassadors/ 
High Commissioners and one domestic servant in respect of other ofﬁ cers subject to the approval of 
the Ministry. 
 
 2.3 Leave 
  Grant of leave to the of ﬁ cers of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service will be governed by the provisions of the 
Establishments Code and the Ministry regulations. 
 
 2.4 Home leave passages 
  Home leave passages will be available for an of ﬁ cer of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service serving in a Mission/
Post abroad and his/her family, if the ofﬁ cer is transferred directly from that Mission/Post to another Mission/
Post after serving in the ﬁ rst Mission/Post for at least two years. 
 
  The duration of the leave shall not exceed 21 days and will be set off against the of ﬁ cer’s leave entitlement. 
 
 2.5 Children’s Educational Air Passages 
  In accordance with the Ministry Regulations and 1.1.2 (ii), the above educational Air Passages will be granted 
to children of ofﬁ cers of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service up to a maximum of two children who study in Sri 
Lanka or abroad. 
 
 2.6 Emergency Air Passages 
  Emergency air passages will be granted to of ﬁ cers of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service in terms of the Ministry 
Regulations subject to the following provisions. 
 ( a) An Ofﬁ cer of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service serving in a Mission/Post abroad or on duty leave abroad 
and/or the ofﬁ cer’s spouse or a child shall be entitled to a maximum of four emergency air passages 
during his/her career to visit Sri Lanka to attend to a domestic emergency such as serious illness or 
death of a family member. Covering approval of the Ministry should be obtained by the ofﬁ cer. 
 ( b) For this purpose, the spouse and the children of the of ﬁ cer concerned, parents and siblings of the 
ofﬁ cer and those of the spouse, are regarded as members of the family. 
 ( c) When an of ﬁ cer of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service serving in a Mission/Post dies, the Ministry shall 
provide at its cost, return air passage to Sri Lanka for the of ﬁ cer’s family (excluding the domestic 
aide/s) living abroad, to attend to the last rites and also one way air passage for the of ﬁ cer’s family 
(including the domestic aide/s) to facilitate their ultimate return to Sri Lanka. 
 ( d) When a member of the family of an ofﬁ cer of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service (excluding the domestic 
aide/s) dies while the ofﬁ cer is serving in a Mission/Post abroad, the Ministry shall provide at its cost, 
return air passage to Sri Lanka for the ofﬁ cer and the members of the family (excluding the domestic 
aide/s) to attend to the last rites. 
 ( e) When an of ﬁ cer of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service or a member of the family dies while the ofﬁ cer is 
serving in a Mission/Post abroad, the Ministry shall provide at its cost, facilities for the transport of 
the remains/ashes to Sri Lanka. 
 
3. Discipline and Control 
 
 3.1  In all matters relating to the discipline, control or conduct of members of the SLFS, provisions of the 
Procedural Rules of the Public Service Regulations, the Establishments Code, the Financial Regulations 
and the Ministry Regulations shall apply. 
 3.2.  The Secretary may, from time to time issue directions with regard to the conduct of members of the SLFS 
in any matter for which the provisions have not been made in the Procedural Rules of Public Service 
Commission, the Establishments Code and the Ministry Regulations. 

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.12.2016
18A
 3.3  No member of the SLFS may at any time engage in any activity which would bring the Sri Lanka Foreign 
Service into disrepute. 
 3.4  Members of the SLFS should not misuse their of ﬁ cial position or information acquired in the course of their 
ofﬁ cial duties to further their personal interests. They should not receive bene ﬁ ts of any kind from a third 
party, which may compromise their personal judgment or integrity. 
 3.5  Members of the SLFS should endeavour to ensure the proper, effective and ef ﬁ cient use of public money. 
 3.6  All appointments are subject to the provisions of the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission 
published in the Extra Ordinary Gazette No. 1589/30 dated 20 th  February, 2009 and the Establishments 
Code. 
 
4. Marriage 
 A SLFS of ﬁ cer who intends to marry a non- national or a Sri Lankan who holds dual citizenship must obtain the prior 
permission of the Secretary.  
5. Foreign Decorations 
 A SLFS of ﬁ cer or any member of his/her family should not, without the permission of the Secretary, accept or wear 
foreign medals or decorations. 
 
6. Ofﬁ cial Secrets and the Custody of Ofﬁ cial Documents 
 
 6.1 Ofﬁ cial Secrets 
 6.1.1. It is the duty of every SLFS of ﬁ cer to be acquainted with the provisions of the laws, at any time inforce in 
Sri Lanka, relating to ofﬁ cial secrets. 
 6.1.2.  Any offence under the law, when committed by a member of the SLFS, will be treated as a departmental 
offence for which the member may be subjected to punishment, irrespective of whether the of ﬁ cer is 
prosecuted criminally for the offence or not. 
  6.2. Custody of Ofﬁ cial Documents 
 6.2.1  Negligence bwy a member of the SLFS in the custody, disposal or handling of of ﬁ cial documents or in 
communicating conﬁ dential or secret information is a departmental offence. 
 6.2.2.  The determination of the con ﬁ dentiality (or secrecy) of any particular information or a document will be 
decided by the originating source. 
 6.2.3.  The Head of Mission/Post shall on the outbreak of war or other emergency, destroy ofﬁ cial documents which 
are in his/her possession or custody, in accordance with the instructions in force for such an eventuality. 
Except in cases of grave emergency, originals or copies of documents should not be destroyed without the 
authority of the Secretary, unless such documents cease to have any particular value or interest. Departmental 
orders will be issued from time to time regarding the destruction of documents. 
 6.2.4  Even after retirement, members of the SLFS remain subject to the law relating to Of ﬁ cial Secrets as regards 
all classiﬁ ed information and documents which were available to them while in service. 
7.  Performance Appraisal Report and Payment of Salary increments  
 7.1.  Performance Appraisal Reports shall be furnished annually to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in respect of 
all ofﬁ cers of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service serving in Missions abroad by the Heads of Mission. These 
reports should be forwarded to reach the Ministry not later than 31st January of the succeeding year, in respect 
of which the reports are made. 

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.12.2016
19A
 7.2 The reports on of ﬁ cers of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service shall be prepared by 
 ( a) Heads of the Mission/Post, in the case of of ﬁ cers serving in Missions/Posts Abroad. 
 ( b) The Secretary, in the case of ofﬁ cers of the SLFS serving in Sri Lanka. 
 7.3    Performance Appraisal Reports should be prepared in the formats approved by the Government. 
 7.4 Annual salary increments to of ﬁ cers of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service shall be paid on the speciﬁ c authority 
of the Secretary. When the of ﬁ cer is serving in a Mission/Post abroad, the annual salary increment shall 
be paid on the authority of the Secretary, subject to the recommendation of the Head of Mission/Post 
concerned. Payment of salary increments will be based on the Of ﬁ cer’s performance appraisal. When the 
annual salary increment is due before 31
st December, payment of annual increment may be based on the 
ofﬁ cer’s Performance Appraisal Report made in respect of the preceding year. 
 
8. Matters for which provisions have not been made 
 (i) All of ﬁ cers should obtain proﬁ ciency and skills required as decided by the Government from time to time, 
in addition to the requirements stipulated in this Minute. 
 
 (ii) Decisions with regard to the provisions other than those speci ﬁ ed in this Minute will be taken by the Public 
Service Commission. 
12-839
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.