

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … ––
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 493
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"061 – 2018 ud¾;= ui 02 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'03'02
No. 2,061  –  fRiday ,  MaRch 02, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 23rd March, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 09th March, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting).
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
491-B 81256- 5,403 (03/2018)

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
492
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service  : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions  : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
493
Posts – v acant
PARLIAmENT  Of SRI LANkA
v acancies
aPPLicatioNS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka 
who are physically sound and of excellent moral character 
for the following posts on the Staff of the Secretary-General 
of Parliament.
applications prepared in accordance with the specimen 
given below should be sent under registered cover to reach 
the “Secretary-General of Parliament, Parliament of Sri 
Lanka, Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte" on or before 15.03.2018 
indicating the post you are applying for on the top left-hand 
corner of the envelope. (this notice is accessible via www.
parliament.lk )
1. Post of Transport Officer
 1.1 Salary Scale :
  according to the Schedule i of the Management 
Services circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016, 
salary scale specified for this post is Rs. 43,565 
– 9 x 755 / 6 x 930 – Rs. 55,940. the selected 
candidates will be placed initially at the 
monthly salary step of Rs. 34,563/= according 
to the schedule ii of the circular mentioned 
above.  (the minimum initial gross monthly 
remuneration together with all the allowances 
will be approximately Rs. 70,000.00)
  A Transport Officer on successful completion 
of 10 years’ satisfactory service will be eligible 
for promotion to the Post of Senior t ransport 
Officer. 
 1.2 Age Limit :
  Not less than 25 years and not more than 35 years 
of age as at the closing date for applications. 
(this Upper age limit will not be applicable 
for the candidates who have already been 
confirmed in their posts in Public/ Provincial 
Public Service)
 1.3 Educational Qualifications :
  Should have passed G.c.E ordinary Level 
Examination in 6 subjects in not more than 
two sittings including credit passes for Sinhala/ 
t amil, English and M athematics.
and
  Should have passed Engineering subjects at 
G.c.E advanced Level Examination in one 
sitting (4 subjects under the old syllabus or 3 
subjects under the new syllabus)
 1.4  Professional Qualifications :
 • National Diploma in Technology (NDT) – 
(Mechanical) or
 • National Diploma in Engineering Science 
(NdES) – (Mechanical)  or
 • Higher National Diploma in Engineering 
(hNdE) – (Mechanical)  or
 • Diploma in Technology at Open University of 
Sri Lanka – (Mechanical) or
 • Four years full time course in motor mechanism 
conducted by ceylon German t echnical 
t raining institute or
 • NVQ 6 qualification acquired in the relevant 
field or
 • Any other technical qualification recognized 
by the t ertiary and V ocational t raining 
commission as equal in all aspects to the above 
mentioned technical qualifications. 
 1.5 Extra Qualifications :
 • License to drive all kinds of vehicles and Motor 
cycles.
 • Ability to determine the repairs required for 
vehicles and report on any regular repairs after 
inspection.
 • Good knowledge in maintenance of Diesel & 
Petrol Vehicles.
 • Ability to carry out minor repairs in Diesel & 
Petrol Vehicles.
 • Ability to maintain and control a fleet of 
vehicles including motor cycles and experience 
in labor handli ng.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
494
 1.6 experience  :
  Experience of not less than 5 years as transport 
Officer in a recognized institution or in a 
supervisory level post in the field of motor 
mechanism.
 1.7 Method of Recruitment  :
  through a written/trade test, and an interview.
2.0  Post of Skilled Labourer (Civil)
 2.1 Nature of the employment :
  assist in the civil engineering work such as 
carpentry, Masonry, Plumbing, Painting, 
Welding, & Pipeline cleaning. 
 2.2 Salary Scale  :
  according to the Schedule i of the Management 
Services circular No. 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016, 
monthly salary scale specified for this post is   
Rs. 25,520 -9x270/10x300/6x330- Rs. 32,930. 
the selected candidates will be placed initially at 
the monthly salary step of Rs. 20, 248 according 
to the schedule ii of the circular mentioned 
above. (the minimum initial gross monthly 
remuneration together with all the allowances 
will be approximately Rs. 50,000.00)
  Skilled Laborer (civil) on successful completion 
of 10 years’ satisfactory service will be eligible 
for promotion to the Post of “Senior Skilled 
Laborer (civil)”.
 2.3 Age Limit  :
  Should not be less than 21 years and not more 
than 30 years of age as at 09 March 2018. (this 
upper age limit will not be applicable for those 
who have already been confirmed in a Public/
Provincial public service)
 2.4 Educational Qualifications :
  Should have passed G.c.E. (ordinary Level) 
Examination in 6 subjects including Sinhala/
tamil & Mathematics in not more than two 
sittings.
(Note: above qualification is not compulsory for those 
who possess a certificate level qualification 
obtained from a recognized government or 
private institution equal to NVQ level 3 in any 
field mentioned in above 2.1)
 
 2.5 Professional Qualifications :
  Should possess a certificate level qualification 
obtained from a recognized government or 
private institution equal to NVQ level 2 in 
carpentry, Masonry, Plumbing, Painting, 
Welding or Pipeline cleaning)
    2.6 experience  :
  three or more years of experience in one of the 
fields mentioned in section 2.5 above
 2.7 Method of Recruitment  :
  through a written test or a trade test and an 
interview
 3.  Terms and Conditions of Service
 3.1. these posts are permanent. Pension entitlement 
pertaining to these posts will be determined 
according to the policy decisions taken by 
the Government in future.  appointment will 
be made subject to a three-year (3) probation 
period. If a person who has been confirmed 
in the Public / Provincial Public Service is 
selected, he / she will be appointed subject to an 
acting period of one year.
 3.2 Selected candidate will be subject to financial 
and departmental Regulations applicable to the 
staff of the Secretary General of Parliament.
 3.3 Selected candidates should contribute to 
the Widows’ and orphans’/Widowers’ and 
orphans’ Pension fund from his / her salary 
with a percentage specified by the government 
and he/she will be subjected to a medical 
examination. 
 3.4 a  Security clearance Report in respect of the 
selected candidate will be obtained prior to his / 
her appointment.  
4. applicants should attach the copies of the following 
certificates (not originals) to their applications.  Originals of 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
495
the certificates should be produced, only when called upon 
to do so.  
(a) Birth Certificate.
(b) Certificates of Educational Qualifications.
(c) Certificates confirming professional qualifications.
(d) Certificates confirming experience.
5. applicants serving in Public Service / Provincial Public 
Service should send their applications through relevant 
heads of departments / institutions.
6. Canvassing in any form will be a disqualification for 
this post.
7. any information in the application found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable for disqualification, 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before selection, to dismissal, 
if discovered after appointment.
8. applications received after the closing date or sent 
without copies of the above mentioned certificates or not 
sent through heads of departments / institutions will be 
rejected. applications sent through heads of departments/ 
institutions but received after the closing date, and 
applications not prepared in accordance with the specimen 
form will also be rejected. 
9. in the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, 
tamil or English Languages on this Gazette Notification the 
Sinhala text  shall prevail  . 
       W.B.d  
Dasanayake,
 Secretary General of the Parliament.
Parliament of Sri Lanka,
Sri  Jayawardhenapura Kotte,
02nd  March 2018. 
Parliament of sri lanka
sPecimen aPPlication for the Post of transPort officer
01. (a) Name with initials (in Sinhala/t amil) :––––––––––.
 (b) Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/t amil) :––––.
 (c) full Name (in block c apitals): Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––.
02. National identity card Number  :––––––––––––.
03. (a)  Private address :––––––––––––.
  t elephone No. :––––––––––––.
 (b) Address (Office) :––––––––––––.
  t elephone No. :––––––––––––.
 Please indicate the address where the admission to 
be posted
 (c) Private                              Office
04. (a) date of birth :––––––––––––.
   (A copy of the birth Certificate should be attached):   
 (b) age as at 15.03.2018:    
  y ears :–––––––. Months :–––––––.  days :–––––––. 
05. civil Status :–––––––––. 
 
06. Sex :–––––––––. 
 
07. State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :–––––––––. 
  
08. Educational Qualifications: (Copies of the certificates 
should be attached) :
Exam Subject Result year
G. c. E 
o/L
Sinhala/ tamil
Mathematics
English
G. c. E 
a/L 
09. Higher Educational Qualifications (copies of the 
certificates should be attached)  :–––––––––. 
10 Professional Qualifications (copies of the certificates 
should be attached)  :–––––––––. 
11. Experience (copies of the certificates should be attached)   
:–––––––––. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
496
12. details of Present Employment: 
 (a) Name and address of the institution  :–––––––––. 
 (b) Date of first Appointment  :–––––––––. 
 (c) Present Post  :–––––––––. 
 (d) Monthly Basic Salary  :–––––––––. 
 (e) allowances  :–––––––––. 
 (f) Gross Salary  :–––––––––. 
13. have you been convicted for a criminal offence by a 
court of Law?   :–––––––––. 
 if so, give details  :–––––––––. 
14. have you served under the Government before? :–––––.  
 if so, give details :–––––––––. 
i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and correct. i am also aware that, 
I am liable to be disqualified for this post if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before 
selection, or to be dismissed without any compensation if 
such detection is made after appointment. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date  :–––––––––. 
Certification of Head of Department/Institution
(only for applicants serving in the Public Service/Provincial 
Public Service) 
Secretary General of Parliament, 
i recommend and forward the application of Mr./ Mrs./ 
Miss ............................... holding the post of ....................
................................... in this institution. i certify that his/
her work and conduct are satisfactory and that he/she has 
not been subjected to any disciplinary action or there is 
no intention to make such inquiry. he/she can be released/
cannot be released from the service if selected for this post.         
                                 .
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of head of department/ 
 institution.
  (Official Stamp) 
date  :–––––––– –.   
Parliament of sri lanka
sPecimen aPPlication for the Post of skilleD 
labourer (civil)
01. (a) Name with initials (in Sinhala/t amil) :––––––––––.
 (b) Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/t amil) :––––.
 (c) full Name (in block c apitals): Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––.
02. National identity card Number  :––––––––––––.
03. (a)  Private address :––––––––––––.
  t elephone No. :––––––––––––.
 (b) Address (Office) :––––––––––––.
  t elephone No. :––––––––––––.
 Please indicate the address where the admission to 
be posted
 (c) Private                              Office
04. (a) date of birth :––––––––––––.
   (A copy of the birth Certificate should be attached):   
 (b) age as at 15.03.2018:    
  y ears :–––––––. Months :–––––––.  days :–––––––. 
05. civil Status :–––––––––.  
06. Sex :–––––––––.  
07. State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :–––––––––. 
  
08. Educational Qualifications: (Copies of the certificates 
should be attached) :
exam Subject Result Year
G. c. E 
o/L
Sinhala/ tamil
Mathematics
English
09. Professional Qualifications (copies of the certificates 
should be attached)  :–––––––––. 
10. Experience (copies of the certificates should be attached)   
:–––––––––. 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
497
11. detail s of Present Employment: 
 (a) Name and address of the institution  :–––––––––. 
 (b) Date of first Appointment  :–––––––––. 
 (c) Present Post  :–––––––––. 
 (d) Monthly Basic Salary  :–––––––––. 
 (e) allowances  :–––––––––. 
 (f) Gross Salary  :–––––––––. 
12. have you been convicted for a criminal offence by a 
court of Law?   :–––––––––. 
 if so, give details  :–––––––––. 
13. have you served under the Government before? :–––––.  
 if so, give details  :–––––––––. 
i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and correct. i am also aware that, 
I am liable to be disqualified for this post if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before 
selection, or to be dismissed without any compensation if 
such detection is made after appointment. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date  :–––––––––. 
Certification of Head of Department/Institution
(only for applicants serving in the Public Service/Provincial 
Public Service) 
Secretary General of Parliament, 
i recommend and forward the application of Mr./ Mrs./
Miss ............................... holding the post of ....................
................................... in this institution. i certify that his/
her work and conduct are satisfactory and that he/she has 
not been subjected to any disciplinary action or there is 
no intention to make such inquiry. he/she can be released/
cannot be released from the service if selected for this post.         
                                 .
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of head of department/ 
 institution.
  (Official Stamp) 
date  :–––––––––. 
03–343
SRI LANkA REGuLAR AIR fORCE
Officer Cadet And Lady Officer Cadet Vacancies
V acaNciES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular air force for 
Officer Cadets and Lady Officer Cadets in the following 
branches.
 (a) General duties Pilot Branch (Male/female)
 (b) t echnical Engineering Branch (Male/female)
 (c) Electronics Engineering Branch (Male)
 (d) Logistics Branch (Male)
 (e) administrative Branch (Male/female)
 (f) administrative Regiment Branch (Male/female)
 (g) Operations Air Branch (Air Traffic Controller) 
(Male)
 (h) Provost Branch (Male)
2. applications are invited from male / female candidates 
possessing the qualifications given below.
bASIC EDuCATION QuALIfICATION 
Non Degree Programme
 (a) Minimum of Six credit (c) passes at the GcE 
(o/L) examination with compulsory credit 
(c) passes for English language, Science, 
Mathematics and a Simple (S) pass and above for 
Sinhala / tamil language in one sitting (additional 
and optional subjects are not considered). 
Degree Programme
 (b) In addition to the Basic Education Qualifications 
required for the Non degree Programme, 
minimum of three Simple (S) passes at the GcE 
(a/L) examination and passes may be from any 
stream in one sitting.
3.  SPECIfIC QuALIfICATIONS (DEGREE 
PROGRAmmE) BSc (a viation Studies) degree Entrant 
Qualifications (Accredited by the General Sir John 
Kotelawala defence University).
General Duties Pilot /Operations Air (Air Traffic 
Controller) branches 
 (a) in addition to the Basic Education Qualifications 
required for the Non degree Programme, Simple 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
498
(S) passes in three subjects at the GcE (a/L) 
examination in Physical Science (combined 
Maths, Physics and chemistry) / Bio Science 
(Biology, Physics and chemistry) Streams (as 
applicable) in one sitting.
  Technical (Aeronautical) Engineering / 
Electronics Engineering branches
 (b) In addition to the Basic Education Qualifications 
required for the Non degree Programme, Simple 
(S) passes Simple (S) passes in three subjects at 
the GcE (a/L) examination in Physical Science 
(combined Maths, Physics and chemistry) 
Stream in one sitting.
  Logistics / Administrative / Administrative 
Regiment / Provost branches
 (c) In addition to the Basic Education Qualifications 
required for the Non degree Programme, Simple 
(S) passes in three subjects at the GcE (a/L) 
examination in Physical / Bio Science / commerce 
/ technology / arts Streams in one sitting.
 (d) Special Note:-  Pearson / Edexcel - international 
ordinary / advance Level, GcSE, GcE and 
Cambridge exam qualification may be considered 
subjected to a confirmation obtained from the 
department of Examination, Sri Lanka, to effect  
that it is equalant to above basic educational 
qualifications.
4. Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfill the 
following general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka 
Regular air force.
 (a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 (b) age : Not less than 18 years and not 
more than 22 years as at 30th 
June, 2018
 (c) height : Male - 167.5cm (5' 6") and above
   : female - 162.5cm (5' 4") and 
above
 (d) Weight : Male - 17 < BMi < 26
    female - 17 < MBi < 25
     Weight (Kg)
    BMi = –––––––––
     height (m) 2 
 (e) chest : Male - 32" (Minimum)
 (f) colour Vision  : cP2
  Standard
 (g) Visual acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 
(without spectacles)
 (h) civil Status : candidates must be unmarried. 
No cadet will be permitted to 
marry whilst under training 
and for a further period of 
one (1) year from the date of 
commissioning. 
5. due consideration will be given to outstanding 
achievements in the field of sports.
6. Applications of candidates who do not fulfill the 
requirement of para 2 and 3 will be rejected. on arrival 
for the first interview the height, vision and weight will be 
measured. candidates whose height, vision and weight are 
below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification and 
who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed. 
7. Any candidate who has special skill / qualifications 
may at the discretion of the commander of the air force be 
considered, even though he / she does not have any of above 
pre-requisites, provided that he/she possess the requisite of 
the Professional/ Special qualifications for the best interest 
of the Sri Lanka air force. 
8. Conditions of Service :
 (a) the candidate is to initially enlist in the air force 
as a cadet on a regular engagement in the same 
manner as for other Ranks and will undergo a 
Basic combat training course. on successful 
completion of training, the duration of which 
will depend on the branch, the status allocated on 
his / her enlistment as an other Rank will lapse 
and will receive a Permanent commission in the 
rank of Pilot Officer.
 (b) cadets will be required to undergo training at a 
place in Sri Lanka or abroad as decided by the 
commander of the air force in consultation 
with the Ministry of defence.
 (c) during the period of training as cadets and 
thereafter, personnel will be subject to air force 
Law.
 (d) Every cadet will be provided all items of 
uniforms, equipment and medical facilities.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
499
 (e) during the period of training, a cadet will be accommodated in an air force Mess and will be provided with 
food.
 (f) in the event of a cadet voluntarily terminating his / her candidature for a commission during training, the parent 
or guardian will be required to refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka all expenses incurred up to that time by the 
Republic of    Sri Lanka on account of such cadet.
 (g) if at any time during his / her course a cadet is reported by the authorities as being unsuitable for reasons of 
misconduct or due to causes within his / her control to qualify for a commission, his / her parent or guardian will 
be required to refund to the Sri Lanka air force all expenses incurred on his / her training and will be required to 
enter into a bond to this effect with the commander of the air force acting on behalf of the Government of Sri 
Lanka.
      
 (h) Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given in cage 28 of the application form in respect of sub paragraphs 
(f) and (g) above, and forward them together with the application. Parent or guardian will be required to enter in 
to a bond subsequently in this form with the Republic of Sri Lanka prior to the appointment of these candidates 
as cadets.
 (j) candidates who possess the requirement as per para 2 and 3 will be called for the Preliminary interview and if 
successful will be called for Medical Examinations and all candidates selected will be medically examined under 
Sri Lanka Air Force arrangements to check the suitability in par with the Sri Lanka Air Force Medical fitness 
standards. the General duties Pilots Branch candidates, if successful will be called for the flying aptitude tests. 
All the Branch Candidates if successful will be called for the Officer Quality Tests. Thereafter, if successful all 
the candidates will be called for the familiarization training programme. candidates who successfully complete 
these tests will be called for the final interview. the required number of candidates per branch will be selected 
according to merit at these interviews and tests.
 (k) A single Officer is required to live in the Officers Mess. He / She is provided with furnished accommodation and 
food. Batman service will be provided. A single Officer’s ration allowance and batman allowance are paid to the 
Mess.
 (l) A married Officer may be provided with a married quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as applicable 
to public servants. 
 (m) All Officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any part of the world at any time.
 (n) All Officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders issued from time to time.
9. Official Language Requirements.– the selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules already 
made or may hereafter be made for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Republic of Sri Lanka and in particular for 
implementing the provisions the Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
10. Pay and Allowances  :
Year 2017
(Annual)
Adjustment 
Allowance 
2018 (Annual)
2020
(Annual)
Rank
Officer Cadets 308,184.00 36,960.00 388,560.00
Pilot Officer (Cadet) 367,356.00 20,844.00 463,260.00
Pilot Officer (Non Cadet) 398,796.00 12,444.00 502,860.00
Flying Officer 452,916.00 571,380.00- (30x16,020)  = 1,051,980.00
flight Lieutenant 529,164.00 667,500.00 – (24x16,020) = 1,051,980.00
Squadron Leader 579,996.00 731,580.00 – (22x16,020) = 1,084,020.00

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
500
 (a) Since a consolidated revision is in progress at 
present, and same revision completes in year 
2020, followings are the amounts payable in 2018. 
further it is to be noted that all consolidated salaries 
indicated below are the initial step of particular 
rank.
    
 (b) Other Allowances  :
 (1) cost of living allowance of Rs. 7800/- per 
month.
 (2) incentive allowance of Rs. 250/- per month 
after five years of service.
 (3) hard allowance Rs.620/- Per month 
 (4) additional hard allowance Rs. 4,380/- per 
month for those serving in operational areas. 
 (5) Special allowance (1) Rs. 3,100/- per month 
(Rs.100/- will be paid for per day).
 (6) interim allowance Rs. 1,000/- per month.
 (7) Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255/- per 
month.
 (8) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50/- per month               
(if permitted to live out).
 
 (9) Ration allowance Rs. 17,349.46 per month           
(if permitted to live out Rs.559.66 per day).
 (10) Qualification pay where applicable (up to a 
maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
 (11) three sets of holiday railway warrants per 
year (For Officer, spouse & children).
 (12) an additional set of railway warrants or the 
reimbursement of bus fare for Officers living 
in Messes to travel from the Mess to the 
hometown once a month.
 (13) free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
 (14) free medical facilities (including for families 
if applicable).
 
 (15) Married Officers permitted to live - out are 
entitled to a free bus pass to  travel from 
residence to place of work within 30 miles 
radius.
 (16) flying pay will be paid for those who are in 
the General duties Pilot branch. 
 (17) Engineering allowances Rs.15000.00 pay will 
be paid for those who are in the applicable to 
Engineering Officers only.
 
 (18) Rent allowances for married Officers not in 
occupation of a government married quarter. 
Pilot Officer to Group Captain & above                  
Rs. 1,600/- to Rs. 4,250/- per month.
 
11. Pensions/Gratuities.– Payable in terms of the air 
force Pensions and Gratuities code 1981 and as amended 
from time to time. All Officers are contributors to the 
Widows and orphans Pension (armed force) Scheme. Rate 
of contributions are as per Widows and orphans Pension 
(armed forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.
12. Instructions to Applicants :
 (a) applications should be submitted in applicant’s 
own hand writing in terms of the form specified 
below. all cages of the application should 
be completed neatly with as much details as 
possible. applications should be forwarded 
under registered cover to : “COmmAND 
RECRuITING OffICER, SRI LANkA AIR 
fORCE TRADE TRAINING SChOOL, 
EkALA,  kOTuGODA”  so  as  to  reach   
him  not  later  than 1200  noon  on 05
th march 
2018. the envelope enclosing the application 
should be marked “APPLICATION fOR 
CADETShIP / LADy  CADETShIP IN 
ThE……………… bRANCh”. a  candidate 
will be allowed to apply for only one branch, 
those who apply for more than one branch 
the applications will be rejected.  applications 
received after the closing date and not in 
accordance with the requirements of this 
notification and not in registered post mail will 
not be entertained. 
 (b) candidates who are in Government Service / 
corporations / Boards /   civil Establishments 
should forward their applications through their 
heads of department / corporations / Boards 
/ civil Establishments and should bear a 
certificate to the effect that the candidate will 
be released if selected. 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
501
 (c) candidates will be required to produce the 
originals with certified photo copy of the 
following documents when summoned for 
interviews or when called upon to do so:-
 (1) Certificate of Registration of Birth and 
a photo copy. (Certificate issued for the 
purpose of the education code will not be 
accepted).
 (2) National identity card and a photocopy.
 (3) Original certificates in support of the 
educational qualifications required for the 
branch applied and photocopies.
 (4) Certificates of trade / technical training 
and/ or experience (if any) obtained from a 
recognized institution and photocopies.
 (5) Two recent certificates of character (within 
06 months obtained). one of these should 
be from the Principal of the last school 
attended and the other from a responsible 
person who has the know of the applicant 
for more than two years or from the present 
employer (if employed).
 (6) Original certificates in support of sports 
activities and Extra curricular activities and 
photocopies.
(7)  A plain folder with file tag.
(8)  A colour photo of 2x2½ inches certified by 
the Grama Niladari.
       
 (d) applications of candidates who fail to produce 
documents when requested to do so will not be 
considered.
 (e) No documents or original copies of documents 
should be attached to the application form.
 (f) the air force will not be responsible for loss of 
any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form.
    
13. any statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for 
dismissal if discovered after selection.
14. Selection Interviews  :
 (a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst 
those candidates who fulfill the above conditions. 
candidates so selected will be required to undergo 
tests as may be prescribed by the commander of 
the Air Force. The final selection will then be made 
after an interview of those selected candidates by 
a selection board appointed by the Ministry of 
defence.
 (b) candidates selected for interviews will be informed 
in writing of the place, time and date of such 
interviews. traveling or other expenses will not be 
paid in this respect.
 (c) on every occasion an applicant is summoned 
for an interview he / she is to produce his / her 
National identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of Persons.
 (d) all candidates who are selected are required to 
undergo written, practical and Officer Quality Test 
during the selection process. 
 (e) all candidates who are selected are required to 
undergo a medical screening test as per Sri Lanka 
air force Medical Standard during the selection 
process.
 (f) anyone who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving his / her testimonial. any 
form of canvassing or attempt to influence in the 
selection of a candidate will result in disqualification 
of such candidate.
 (g) candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment 
will not be notified.
 KVB J
ayamPathy,
     WWV , RWP, RSP and 
 three Bars, fndu (china), qhi
 air Marshal,
 commander of the air force.
headquarters,
Sri Lanka air force,
Po Box 594,
colombo 02.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
502
aPPLicatioN foR officER cadEt / Lady  
officER cadEt iN thE ……………… .BRaNch of 
thE SRi LaNKa aiR foRcE
 1. Nationality :–––––––––––.
  (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration and if latter, quote number and date of 
certificate)
 2. full Name (as per the National identity card) :–––––.
 3. National  identity card Number :–––––––––––.
 4. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
 5. Postal address :–––––––––––.
 6. date of Birth :–––––––––––.
  (age as at 30th June, 2018) :
   y ears :––––––,  Months :–––––––,  days :–––––––.
 7. height :..........cm (.........feet ..............inches) 
 8. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :––––––.
 9. district :–––––––––––.
 10. Electorate :–––––––––––.
 11. GN division :–––––––––––.
 12. telephone Number :–––––––––––.
 13. Married or Single :–––––––––––.
 14. Gender :–––––––––––.
 15. School attended :––––––––––––.
 16. Particulars of School qualifications obtained : 
 Name of  Type of  Year and  Subjects passed
 School examination Number of the (including
    examination grading)
 ordinary 
  Level
 advanced 
  Level
 other
 17. Particulars of employment since leaving School (if 
applicable ) :
 Name and address Nature of Period of Service 
 of employer employment From        To 
 18. Particulars of parents : 
 Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present 
    address 
 Father 
 Mother 
 19. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
 20. details of current achievement in sports. (Give details 
of teams and competitions participated with dates/years 
etc. and standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––.
 21. other achievements of note at School or with outside 
organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) : 
–––––––––––.
 22. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer 
force, cadet corps Scouting organization :–––––––––.
 23. have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka air force 
or any of the armed Services or Police, if so give details 
and the outcome of such applications : –––––––––––.
 24. have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or 
military court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
 25. if earlier employed in a Government department or 
in the Public Sector/Board/corporation (including the 
central Bank, National Bank, Universities, Joint Stock 
companies controlled by the Government etc.,) reasons 
for termination of employment :––––––––––.
 26. Particulars of testimonials : 
 Name Designation Postal Address 
 27. declaration to be signed by the applicant : 
i, declare on my honour that answers given to the above 
questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which 
will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of 
those candidates who are selected for commission in the Sri 
Lanka air force published in the Gazette of the Republic of 
Sri Lanka. 
  ––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
503
28.  declaration to be signed by the parent or guardian of the 
applicant :
 (a) i am the parent/guardian of ........................... who 
is an applicant for a cadetship in the Sri Lanka air 
force and who has signed the declaration in cage 27 
of the form of application above. 
 (b) i hereby undertake to be responsible in the event 
above named applicant being selected for a course 
of training for the following. 
 (1) to refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the 
event of the above named applicant voluntarily 
terminating his/her candidature for a commission 
during his/her period of training all expenses 
incurred upto that time by the Republic of Sri 
Lanka on account of such applicant. 
 (2) to refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the 
event of the above named applicant reported on 
by the authorities as being unsuitable (for reasons 
of misconduct or due to causes within his/her 
own control) for the issue of a commission all 
the expenses incurred on his/her account by the 
Republic of Sri Lanka. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of Parent/Guardian. 
date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
address :–––––––––––.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of first Witness. 
date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
address :–––––––––––.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of Second Witness. 
date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
 (in block capitals)
address :–––––––––––.
03–381
SRI  LANkA  REGuLAR / vOLuNTEER   
AIR fORCE
Airmen / Airwomen vacancies
V acaNciES exist in the Regular / V olunteer force of the 
Sri Lanka air force for airmen / airwomen in the trades 
given below.
bASIC EDuCATION QuALIfICATION (AIRmEN 
/ AIRWOmEN)
2. Passes of six (06) passes at the GcE (o/L) Examination 
from not more than two sittings, including a simple (S) pass 
in Sinhala/ tamil language. 
 (a) Trades and Educational Qualifications Required 
(male/ female).
 (1) Aeronautical Engineering Trades. 
           
 (a) aircraft Structural technician 
 (b) aircraft Engine technician 
 (c) aircraft Electrical & instrument technician 
 (d) aircraft Safety Equipment technician  
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) Examination 
at not more than two sittings including Simple (S)  
passes in Sinhala/ tamil and English languages, 
an Simple (S)  passes in Mathematics or Science. 
a credit (c) pass for Mathematics or Science is 
essential.
 and
  Priority will be given to aircraft Electrical & 
instrument technician has successful completion 
of two year fulltime National Certificate Course 
in Engineering craft Practice at a technical 
college recognized by the Ministry of V ocational 
and t echnical training or equivalent.
 (2) General Engineering Trades (male).
 (a) armament Mechanic. 
 (b) Motor t ransport Mechanic.
 (c) Surface t echnician.
 (d) Sheet Metal Worker.
 (e) carpenter Mechanic.   
 (f) General Mechanic. 
 (g) t urner. 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
504
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including Simple (S)  passes in Sinhala / 
tamil, English languages, Mathematics 
and Science. a credit pass for Mathematics 
/ Science will be an added qualification.
 (h) operator Motor transport (Male)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an Simple (S) pass in Sinhala 
/ tamil language (possession of a valid 
light vehicle driving license is essential 
and priority will be given to possession of 
a valid heavy vehicle driving licence and 
simple pass for English language) 
 (3) Electronics and Telecommunication 
Engineering Trades. 
 (a) air Radio technician (Male)
 (b) t elecommunication technician (Male). 
      
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including Simple (S)  passes in Sinhala / 
tamil, English languages, Mathematics and 
Science. a credit pass for Mathematics / 
Science is essential.
 (c) air communicator (Male)
 (d) computer technician 
 (e) t elephonist (Male)
 
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including Simple (S) pass in Sinhala / tamil 
and English languages. for the computer 
technician  Successful completion of training 
course and work experience in it  disciplines 
will be considered as added qualification for 
selection.
 (4) medical Trades.
 (a) Nursing assistant 
     
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including simple pass in English language 
and credit passes in Sinhala / tamil/ 
Mathematics/ Science and one other subject. 
having following passes at the GcE (a/L) 
Examination from Science / maths Stream 
in one sitting will be added advantage for 
selection and a qualification for advance 
training under Ministry of health services 
mentioned therein.
having credit pass for English 
in GcE (o/L) examination with 
two simple passes from biology/
Combined maths/ Physics/ 
Agri Science and credit pass 
for Chemistry in GcE (a/L) 
examination in one sitting. 
- Pharmacist 
Medical 
Laboratory  
technologist
  
having credit pass for English in 
GcE (o/L) examination with two 
simple passes from Chemistry, 
Physics / Agri Science  and credit 
pass for biology in GcE (a/L) 
examination in one sitting .
- EcG /EEt  
EEG technician 
(Male)
having credit pass for English 
in GcE (o/L) examination with 
two simple passes for Chemistry, 
biology/ Combined maths and 
credit pass for Physics in GcE 
(a/L) examination in one sitting.
-   X Ray 
technician (Male)
Physiotherapist 
(Male)
 ophthalmic tech 
(Male)
having Simple (S) pass for English 
in GcE (o/L) examination two 
simple passes from Chemistry, 
Physics/ Agri Science  and credit 
pass for biology/ Combined maths 
in GcE (a/L) examination in one 
sitting.
-afhi (Male)
   
 (b) dental assistant   
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including Simple (S)  pass in English 
language and credit passes in Sinhala / tamil 
language, Mathematics, Science and one 
other subject. having three passes at the GcE 
(a/L) Examination from Science Streams in 
one sitting (Biology / combine Mathematics 
/ chemistry / Physics or agri Science) will 
be added advantage for selection and a 
qualification for advance training under 
Ministry of health services.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
505
 (5) Administrative Trades (male / female)
 (a) administrative assistant :
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including Simple (S) passes in Sinhala / 
tamil and English languages. Knowledge on 
computers (Microsoft Office package) will be 
an added qualification.
 (b) accounts assistant :
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an Simple (S) passes in Sinhala / 
tamil and English languages and a credit in 
Mathematics / Business & account Studies. 
Knowledge on computers (Microsoft Office 
package) will be an added qualification.
 (6)  Operations Trades 
 (a) operations air (Male) :
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an Simple (S)  pass in Sinhala / 
tamil language and a credit pass in English 
language.
 (b) fire fighter (Male) :
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including Simple (S) passes in Sinhala / tamil 
and English languages.  a valid heavy vehicle 
driving license will be an added qualification.
 (c) operations Ground :
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an Simple (S) pass in Sinhala / 
tamil language. a Simple (S) pass in English 
will be an adde d advantage.
 (7) Logistic Trades
 (a) Logistic assistant :
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an Simple (S)  passes in Sinhala / 
tamil and English languages and a credit 
(c) in Mathematics / Science / Business & 
account Studies. Knowledge on computers 
(Microsoft Office package) will be an added 
qualification.
 (b) Aviation Fuel Quality Controller (Male) :
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an Simple (S)  passes in Sinhala / 
tamil and English languages and a credit 
(c) in Mathematics / Science / Business & 
account Studies. Knowledge on computers 
(Microsoft Office package) will be an added 
qualification.
 (c) catering assistance (Male) :
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including Simple (S) passes in Sinhala / tamil 
and English languages.
 (8)  Provost 
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including Simple (S) passes in Sinhala / tamil 
and English and Mathematics languages. Priority 
will be given to male and female candidates those 
who measured 5' 8" and 5' 6" or above in height 
respectively.
 (9) musician / Dancer
  ability of indigenous and western playing of 
musical instrument or singing or dancing.  Suitable 
figure for dancing, ability for fork singing, 
playing dancing instrument, announcement, 
Sound controller and capability for make-up will 
be considered as special qualification.
 (10) Physical Training Instructor
  National Level sports will be special qualification 
at selection. the practical test should pass all the 
candidates who were passing the preliminary 
interviews.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
506
 (11) Civil Engineering Trades (male)
 (a) aluminium fabricating technician   
 (b) construction Equipment technician
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two   sittings 
including an Simple (S) pass in Sinhala / 
tamil language. (Priority will be given to 
candidates those who an Simple (S) pass in 
English language). 
2. Vacancies exist in the Regular Sri Lanka air force for 
airmen of the in the trades are given below as direct Entry.
 (a) Trades & Educational, Professional 
Qualifications Required:-
 (1) Civil Engineering Trades 
  (a) Quantity Survey Assistant :
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an Simple (S) pass in Sinhala / 
tamil language.
  Successful completion of National Certificate 
in Quantity Surveying (NCT Q/S) – The 
candidates who possess the one year 
certificate (full time) or three – year part time 
NCT certificate in Quantity Surveying. 
 (b) draughtsman :
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an Simple (S)  pass in Sinhala / 
tamil language.
  Successful completion of National Certificate 
in Engineering draughtsmanship – the 
candidates who possess the one year certificate 
(full time) in Engineering draughtsmanship.
 (c)  forman (civil/Electrical/Mechanical) - (Male) :
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an Simple (S)  pass in Sinhala / 
tamil language.
  Successful completion of National Certificate 
in technology Nct  (civil/Electrical/
Mechanical Engineering) the candidates 
who possess the three - year part time 
NCT certificate or any other equivalent 
qualifications awarded by Government 
technical colleges. 
 (d) computer technician (Male) :
  Successful completion of a minimum of 6 
month fulltime course in it disciplines. Work 
experience in following areas, together to be 
added to count minimum of 2 years period.
  - Networking
  - Software development
  - hardware/Software repairs
  Successful completion of a minimum of 12 
month part-time course in it disciplines. 
Work experience in following areas, together 
to be added to count minimum of 2 years 
period 
  - Networking
  - Software development
  - hardware/Software repairs
3.   Other Requirements :
 (a) Candidates must fulfil the following general 
conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka  
Regular/ V olunteer air force: -
 
  (1) Nationality - Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
  (2) age as at 30 June 2018
 
  Regular
  Male -  Not less than 18 years and not more 
than 23 years 
  female - Not less than 18 years and not 
more than 22 years 
 
  V olunteer
  Male - Not less than 18 years and not more 
than 30 years
  female - Not less than 18 years and not 
more than 28 years
 
  direct Entry
  Male - Not less than 18 years and not more 
than 28 years 
  female - Not less than 18 years and not 
more than 26 years
 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
507
  (3) height -  5 feet 5 inches (165 cm) and above 
(Male)
  5 feet 3 inches (160 cm) and above (female)
 
  (4) Weight : -  17 < BMi < 26 (Male)
       17 < BMi < 25 (female)
    Body Mass index =
 
  (5 Vision colour Standard: cP2
 
  (6) Visual acuity: 6/6 each eye (without 
spectacles and lens) 6/18 for one eye and 
it will be corrected 6/6 with spectacles for 
direct entry and V olunteer candidates
 
  (7) chest: 32"
  (8) civil Status:  Unmarried
 (a) Regular airmen / airwomen candidates 
must be unmarried and not allowed to 
marry until the completion of two years 
from the date of enlistment and until one 
year after the completion of the Basic 
trade training course and whichever is 
later). 
 (b) V olunteer airmen / airwomen candidates 
must be unmarried and not allowed to 
marry until the completion of one year from 
the combat training course and whichever 
is later.  
 (c) direct Entry airmen / airwomen are not 
allowed to marry until the completion of 
initial combat training course.
 (d) dancer trade airwomen are not allowed to 
marry until the completion of five (5) years 
from the date of enlistment.
 (e) ops Grd trade airwomen are not allowed 
to marry until the completion of four (4) 
years from the date of enlistment. 
4. candidates who do not possess the required educational 
qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 01 
to 03 will be rejected.  On arrival for the first interview 
the height, weight, chest and vision will be measured.  
candidates whose height, weight, chest and vision are 
below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification  and 
who have no exceptional skills will not be interviewed. any 
candidate who has special ability / qualifications may at the 
discretion of the commander of the air force be considered, 
even though he / she does not have the pre requisite on any 
of above, provided that he/she possess the requisite of the 
Professional/ Special qualifications for the best interest of 
the Sri Lanka air force.
5.  due consideration will be given to outstanding 
achievements in the field of sports.
6.  Conditions of Service  :
 (a) the candidate is to initially enlist in the air force 
as an airmen / airwomen on a regular or volunteer 
engagement and will undergo a Basic combat 
training course. on successful completion of 
training, the duration of which will depend on the 
trade, the status allocated on his / her enlistment 
as an other Rank.
 (b) airmen / airwomen will be required to undergo 
training at a place in Sri Lanka or abroad as 
decided by the commander of the air force in 
consultation with the Ministry of defence.
 (c) during the period of training as airmen / 
airwomen and thereafter, personnel will be 
subject to air force Law.
 (d) Every airmen / airwomen will be provided 
all items of uniforms, equipment and medical 
facilities.
 (e) during the period of training, an airmen / 
airwomen will be accommodated in an air force 
Mess and will be provided with food.
 (f) in the event of a airmen / airwomen voluntarily 
terminating his / her candidature during training, 
the parent or guardian will be required to refund 
to the Republic of Sri Lanka all expenses incurred 
up to that time by the Republic of Sri Lanka on 
account of such airmen / airwomen.
 (g) if at any time during his / her course a airmen / 
airwomen is reported by the authorities as being 
unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to 
causes within his / her control to qualify for a 
commission, his / her parent or guardian will be 
required to refund to the Sri Lanka air force all 
expenses incurred on his / her training and will be 
required to enter into a bond to this effect with the 
commander of the air force acting on behalf of 
the Government of Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
508
 (h)  Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given in cage 28 of the application form in respect of sub paragraphs 
(f) and (g) above, and forward them together with the application. Parent or guardian will be required to enter in 
to a bond subsequently in this form with the Republic of   Sri Lanka prior to the appointment of these candidates 
as airmen / airwomen.
 (j) candidates who possess the requirement as per para 1 to 4 will be called for the Preliminary interview and if 
successful will be called for Medical Examinations and all candidates selected will be medically and physically 
examined under Sri Lanka air force arrangements to check the suitability in par with the Sri Lanka air force 
Medical fitness standards. Candidates who successfully complete these tests will be called for the Final Interview. 
the required number of candidates per trade will be selected according to merit at these interviews and tests.
 (k) a  single airman is required to live in the airmen barracks. he / She is provided with furnished accommodation 
and food. a single airmen’s ration allowance is paid to the Mess.
 (l) a  married airmen/ airwomen may be provided with a married quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as 
applicable to public servants. 
 (m) all airmen/ airwomen are liable to be posted for duty or training in any part of the world at any time.
 
 (n) all airmen/ airwomen are governed by the air force act and orders issued from time to time.
7.  Terms of engagement :
 
 (a) Regular Airmen and Airwomen
  Selected candidates will be enlisted to the third class of the rank of aircraftsman / aircraftwomen / leading 
aircraftsman / corporal in the Regular air force and shall be required to serve for twelve (12) years in which 
eight (08) years will have to be served continuously whilst serving a further four (04) years in the Regular air 
force (Reserve) when called to do so. opportunities exist for suitable airmen / airwomen to extend for further 
service on completion of eight years of service on the discretion of the commander of the Sri Lanka air force.  
 (b) volunteer Airmen and Airwomen
  Selected candidates will be enlisted to the third class of the rank of aircraftsman in the V olunteer air force and 
shall be required to serve for five (05) years. Opportunities exist for suitable to extend for further service on 
completion of five (05) years of service on the discretion of the Commander of the Sri Lanka Air Force.
8. Official Language Requirements.– the selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules already made 
or may hereafter be made for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Republic of Sri Lanka and in particular for 
implementing the provisions the Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
9. Pay and Allowances  :
 (a) Since a consolidated revision is in progress at present, and same revision completes in year 2020, followings are 
the amounts payable in 2018. further it is to be noted that all consolidated salaries indicated below are the initial 
step of particular rank.
Year 2018
 (Annual)
Adjustment Allowance 2018 
(Annual)
2020
(Annual)Rank
air craftsmen 281,232.00 44,832.00 354,480.00(7x300-19x370)  
Leading air craftsmen 289,800.00 42,264.00 365,280.00(4x300-19x370)
corporal 298,368.00 39,792.00 376,080.00(1x300x10x370-9x495)
Sergeant 308,184.00 36,960.00 388,560.00(3x370x9x495-3x660)
flight Sergeant 315,144.00 34,896.00 397,440.00(1x370x9x495-3-660)
Warrant Officer 328,056.00 31,344.00 413,760.00(7x495-14x660)
Master warrant Officer 367,356.00 20,844.00 463,260.00(13x660)

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
509
 (b) Other Allowances :-
 (1)  cost of living allowance of Rs. 7800/- per 
month.
 (2) incentive allowance of Rs. 250/- per month 
after five years of service.
 (3) hard allowance Rs.20/- Per day
 (4) additional hard allowance Rs. 3880/- per 
month for those serving in operational areas. 
 (5) Special allowance (1) Rs. 2,480/- per month 
(Rs.80/- will be paid for per day).
 (6) interim allowance Rs. 1,000/- per month.
 (7) Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 170/- per 
month.
 (8) Ration allowance Rs. 15,278.35 per month (if 
permitted to live out Rs.492.85 per day).
 
 (9) Qualifications pay where applicable (up to a 
maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
 (10) adjustment allowance as applicable.
 (11) three sets of holiday railway warrants per 
year (airmen/airwomen, spouse & children).
 (12) Reimbursement of bus fare for living in 
airmen/airwomen to travel from the base/
station to the home town once a month.
 (13) free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
 (14) free medical facilities (including for families 
if applicable).
 (15) Married airmen/airwomen permitted to live 
- out are entitled to a free bus pass to travel 
from residence to place of work within 30 
miles radius.
 (16) Rent allowances for married airmen/
airwomen are not in occupation of a 
government married quarter. Sergeant and 
below Rs. 1,200/- to Rs. 2,750 per month and 
flight sergeant above Rs.1,350 to   Rs. 3,300.
 (17) accommodation –free for personal living in
 (18) Disturbance allowance. – When Proceeding 
on duty outside permanent station. (Rates 
vary with married/unmarried)
 
 (19) Good conducted badge pay.– paid to personal 
whose behaviour and general conduct are 
maintain at a high standard (Rs. 30 to Rs. 
511.50 per month)
 (20) instructional pay –Rs. 425 to Rs. 510 per 
month.
 (21) overseas allowances will be paid as per air 
force pay code.
 (c) Pensions/Gratuities.– Payable in terms of the 
air force Pensions and Gratuities code 1981 
and as amended from time to time. all airmen/ 
airwomen are contributors to the Widows and 
orphans Pension (armed force) Scheme. Rate 
of contributions are as per Widows and orphans 
Pension (armed forces) Scheme Regulations 
1970.
10.  Instructions to Applicants :
 (a) applications should be submitted in applicants 
own handwriting in terms of the from specified 
below. all cages of the application should be 
filled with much detail as possible. Applications 
should be sent by registered post addressed to 
“COmmAND RECRuITING OffICER, SRI 
LANkA AIR fORCE TRADE TRAINING 
SChOOL, EkALA, kOTuGODA” so as 
to reach there not later than 1200 noon on 
05th March 2018. the Envelope enclosing the 
application should be marked “APPLICATION 
fOR REGuLAR /v OLuNTEER AIRmEN / 
AIRWOmEN” on the top left corner. applications 
received at Sri Lanka air force, Ekala, Kotugoda 
after closing date and time and not in accordance 
with the requirement of this notification and not in 
registered post will not be considered.
 (b) candidates who are in Government Service/ 
corporations/ Boards/ civil Establishments 
should forward their applications through their 
heads of departments / corporations/ Boards/
civil Establishments and should bear a certificate 
to the effect that the candidate will be released if 
selected.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
510
 (c) candidates will be required to produce the 
originals with certified photo copy of the following 
documents when summoned for interviews or 
when called upon to do so.
 (1) Certificate of Registration of Birth and a photo 
copy. (Certificate issued for the purpose of the 
education code will not be accepted).
 (2) National identity card and a photo copy.
 (3) Original certificates in support of the 
educational qualifications required for the 
branch applied and photo copies.
 (4) Certificates of trade / technical training 
and / or experience (if any) obtained from a 
recognized institution and photo copies.
 (5) Two recent certificates of character (within 
06 months obtained). one of these should be 
from the Principal of the last school attended 
and the other from a responsible person 
who has the know of the applicant for more 
than two years or from the present employer                            
(if employed).
 (6) Original certificates in support of sports 
activities and Extra curricular activities and 
photo copies.
 (7)  A plain folder with file tag.
 (8)  A colour photo of 2x2½ inches certified by the 
GS.       
 (d) applications of candidates who fail to produce 
documents when requested to do so will not be 
considered.
 (e) No documents or original copies of documents 
should be attached to the application form.
 (f) the air force will not be responsible for loss of 
any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form.
11.   any statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for 
dismissal if discovered after selection.
12. Preliminary selections will be made amongst those 
candidates who fulfil the above conditions. Candidates 
so selected will be required to undergo tests as may be 
prescribed by the commander of the air force. candidates 
considered suitable for the interview will be required to 
appear for an interview at their own expense before an air 
force Recruiting Board. Such candidates will be informed 
individually of place, date and time. 
13. on every occasion an applicant is summoned for 
interviews, he  is to produce the National identity card. 
candidates who do not have the National identity card could 
produce some other form of the accepted identification. 
however, no candidates will be enlisted without the National 
identity card.
14. all candidates who are selected is required to undergo 
a medical screening test and a physical fitness test as per Sri 
Lanka air force Medical and fitness Standard during the 
selection process.
15. the required number of candidates per trade will be 
selected according to high marks merit at these interviews 
and tests.
16. anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should 
do so by giving his testimonial. any form of canvassing or 
attempt to influence the selection of a candidate will result 
in disqualification of such candidates. 
17. candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment 
will not be notified.
 K.V .B. J
ayamPathy,
     WWV , RWP, RSP and 
 three Bars, fndu (china), qhi
 air Marshal,
 commander of the air force.
headquarters,
Sri Lanka air force,
Po Box 594,
colombo.
aPPLicatioN foR aiRMEN /aiRWoMEN iN thE
…………………………………..tRadE of thE 
SRi LaNKa aiR foRcE
 1. Nationality :–––––––––––.
  (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration and if latter, quote number and date of 
certificate)

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
511
 2. full Name (as per the National identity card) :–––––.
 3. National  identity card Number :–––––––––––.
 4. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
 5. Postal address :–––––––––––.
 6. date of Birth :–––––––––––.
  (age as at 15th January, 2018) :
   y ears :––––––,  Months :–––––––,  days :–––––––.
 7. height :–––––cm (........... feet .............. inches)
 8. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :––––––.
 9. district :–––––––––––.
 10. Electorate :–––––––––––.
 11. Grama Seva division :–––––––––––.
 12. telephone Number :–––––––––––.
 13. Married or Single :–––––––––––.
 14. Gender :–––––––––––.
 15. School attended :––––––––––––.
 16. Particulars of School qualifications obtained : 
 Name of  Type of  Year and Index  Subjects passed
 School examination Number of the (including
    examination grading)
 ordinary 
  Level
 advanced 
  Level
 other
 17. Particulars of employment since leaving School                         
(if applicable ) :
 Name and address Nature of Period of Service 
 of employer employment From        To 
 18. Particulars of parents : 
 Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present 
    address 
 father 
 Mother 
 19. any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
 20. details of current achievements in sports. (Give details 
of teams and competitions participated with dates/years 
etc. and standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––.
 21. other achievements of note at School or with outside 
organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) : 
–––––––––––.
 22. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer 
force, cadet corps or Boy Scout organization :                
–––––––––––.
 23. have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka air force 
or any of the armed Services or Police, if so give details 
and the outcome of such applications : –––––––––––.
 24. have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or 
military court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
 25. if earlier employed in a Government department or 
in the Public Sector/Board/corporation (including the 
central Bank, National Bank, Universities, Joint Stock 
companies controlled by the Government etc.,) reasons 
for termination of employment :––––––––––.
 26. Particulars of testimonials : 
 Name Designation Postal Address 
 27. declaration to be signed by the applicant : 
i, declare on my honour that answers given to the above 
questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which 
will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of 
those candidates who are selected for commission in the Sri 
Lanka air force published in the Gazette of the Repubilc of 
Sri Lanka. 
  ––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
date :–––– –––––––.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
512
28.  declaration to be signed by the parent or guardian of the 
applicant :
 (a) i am the parent/guardian of ........................... who 
is an applicant for a airmen/airwomen in the Sri 
Lanka air force and who has signed the declaration 
in cage 27 of the form of application above. 
 (b) i hereby undertake to be responsible in the event 
above named applicant being selected for a course 
of training for the following :
 (1) to refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the 
event of the above named applicant voluntarily 
terminating his/her candidature during his/her 
period of training all expenses incurred upto that 
time by the Republic of Sri Lanka on account of 
such applicant. 
 (2) to refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the 
event of the above named applicant reported on 
by the authorities as being unsuitable (for reasons 
of misconduct or due to causes within his/her 
own control) for the continuation of service all 
the expenses incurred on his/her account by the 
Republic of Sri Lanka. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of Parent/Guardian. 
date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––,
(in block capitals)
address :–––––––––––,
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of first Witness. 
date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––,
(in block capitals)
address :–––––––––––,
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of Second Witness. 
date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––,
 (in block capitals)
address :–––––––––––,
03–379
SRI LANkA AIR fORCE 
Officer Vacancies
V acaNciES exist for Male / female commissioned 
Officers in the Regular / V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka 
air force in the following Branches :
 (a) Medical Branch
 (b) dental Branch
 (c) administrative Education Branch
 (d) administrative Band Branch
2. applications are invited from those candidates 
possessing the basic and professional qualifications as given 
below :
bASIC EDuCATIONAL QuALIfICATIONS :
 (a) Minimum of six credit (c) passes at the GcE 
(o/L) examination with compulsory  credit 
(c) passes for Engli sh language, Science, 
Mathematics and a Simple (S) pass and above for 
Sinhala / tamil language in one sitting (additional 
and optional subjects are not considered). 
 (b) Minimum of three simple (S) passes at the GcE 
(a/L) examination and passes may be from any 
stream in one sitting.
 (c) Pearson / Edexcel / international ordinary / 
advance Level, GcSE, GcE and cambridge 
exam qualification may be considered subjected 
to a confirmation obtained from the Department 
of Examination, Sri Lanka to effect that it is 
equalant to above basic educational qualifications.
PROfESSIONAL / ACADEmIC QuALIfICATIONS
 (a) medical branch.  
 (1) Medical Officers - Male/ Female (Regular/ 
volunteer) MBBS or a Medical degree 
equivalent to MBBS (Sri Lanka) from any 
recognized University of a foreign country which 
is accepted by Sri Lanka Medical council.
 (2) Pre - Intern Trainees - male/ female (Regular/ 
volunteer) Students who have completed 3
rd  
MBBS (Part 1) and above of MBBS (Sri Lanka) 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
513
or from any recognized University of a foreign 
country which is accepted by Sri Lanka Medical 
council with or without provincial registration 
at Sri Lanka Medical council. those candidates 
who are selected have to qualify the ERPM 
examination and should obtain provincial 
registration at Sri Lanka Medical council within 
05 years from the date of enlistment.       
 (b) Dental branch
 (1) Dental Officers - Male/ Female (Regular/ 
volunteer) BdS or equivalent from any 
recognized University of foreign country 
with full registration with the Sri Lanka 
Medical council.
 (2) Pre - Intern Trainees - male/ female 
(Regular / volunteer) Students who have 
completed final (Part 1) of BDS course and 
above of a BdS degree equivalent to BdS 
(Sri Lanka) from any recognized University 
of a foreign     country which is accepted 
by Sri Lanka Medical council with or 
without provincial registration at Sri Lanka 
Medical council will be considered. those 
candidates who are selected have to qualify 
with full registration with the Sri Lanka 
Medical council within 05 years from the 
date of enlistment.  
 (c) Administrative Education branch
 (1) English Language Instructors - male/ 
female (Regular / volunteer) Successful 
completion of three (3) years teacher 
training course as an English Language 
teacher at the “National college of 
Education” or two (2) years teacher training 
course as an English Language teacher at 
the Government t eachers t raining college 
of Education and Bachelors degree  with 
English Language as a subject or a Bachelors 
degree B.Ed (Bachelor of Education) in 
English or a Bachelors degree Ba  / BSc in 
English medium  or diploma in Education 
or Masters degree (Ma  / MSc) with English 
Language as a subject or Master degree 
(Ma / MSc) in Engl ish medium.
 (d) Administrative band branch 
 (1) band master – music Western (military/
Rock band) – male/female (Regular/ 
volunteer)  Bachelors degree or a diploma 
in dancing / Music or Postgraduate diploma 
in Dancing / Music or Qualified Grade VIII 
or above of the Royal college or trinity 
college or London college of Music or 
equivalent qualifications.
3.  Experience.– Post qualification executive work 
experience in the relevant field of two years or more will be 
an added advantage to be considered by the interview board 
for the selection process.
4.  Basic entry Requirements :
 (a) Nationality :  Must be a citizen of Sri 
Lanka
 (b) civil Status : Married / Unmarried 
 (c) Gender  :  Male / female 
    (as applicable)
 (d) age  :  Not less than 18 years and 
not more than 33 years as 
at 30th June 2018
 (e) height :  Male – 167.5cm (5’ 6") and 
above for all branches
       165.0cm (5’ 5") and above for 
Medical/dental branches
      female – 162.5cm (5’ 4") 
and above for all branches
        160.0cm (5'3") and 
above for Medical/dental 
branches 
 (f) Weight :  17 < BMi < 26 Male  
     17 < BMi < 25 female  
            Weight (Kg)
    BMi = ––––––––––––
              
height
2(m.)
 (g) chest :  Minimum 32" (Male)
 (h) colour Vision :  cP2
  Standard
 (j) Visual acuity :  Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 
     (Without spectacles)
     6/18 in each eye corrected 
visual acuity with spectacle 
should be 6/6 in each eye 
(Non-t echnical Branches 
except operational 
Branches).

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
514
5.  Special Note :
 (a) Applications of candidates who do not fulfil the 
requirement of para 2, 3 and 4 will be rejected. 
On arrival for the first interview the height, vision 
and weight will be measured. candidates whose 
height, vision and weight are below the standard 
specified in the Gazette Notification and who 
have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed. 
 (b) Selected candidates will be commissioned in the 
rank of Flight Lieutenant or Flying Officer or 
Pilot Officer in keeping with their professional 
qualification and experience at the discretion of 
the commander of air force.
 (c) all candidates who are selected are required 
to undergo a written, practical and an Officer 
Quality Test during the selection process.
 (d) all candidates who are selected are required to 
undergo a medical screening test as per Sri Lanka 
air force Medical Standard during the selection 
process. 
 (e) all Masters, Bachelors degrees and diplomas 
should be awarded from a recognized University 
accepted by the University Grant commission of 
Sri Lanka.
 (f) Any candidate who has special qualifications 
may at the discretion of the commander of 
the air force be considered, even though he / 
she does not have any of above pre requisites, 
provided that he / she possess the requisite of the 
professional / special qualifications for the best 
interest of the Sri Lanka air force.
 (g) due considerations will be given to current 
outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
 (h) Official Language Requirements.– Selected 
candidates will be required to comply with any 
rules already made or may be made hereafter 
for giving effect to the Language Policy of 
the Republic of Sri Lanka and in particular for 
implementing the provisions in the Official 
Language act, No. 33 of 1956.
 (j) Selected candidates will be required to undergo 
training at such places as decided by the 
commander of the air force. if at any time 
during training, the officer is reported on by 
the authorities as being unsuitable for reasons 
of misconduct or due to causes within his / her 
control, he / she will be liable to have his / her 
commission withdrawn and / or be subject to 
other disciplinary action in accordance with the 
Sri Lanka air force disciplinary Regulations.
 (k) The conditions of service for an officer of the 
Sri Lanka air force are in terms of Sri Lanka 
air force Regulations published in Gazette No. 
10,240 of 27 april 1951 and as amended from 
time to time. in terms of Section 10 of the air 
Force Act, "Every officer shall hold his / her 
appointment during the President's pleasure". 
However an officer has no right to resign his / 
her commission unilaterally, but under provision 
of Section 11 of the air force act may be 
allowed by the President to do so. the provisions 
of any Bond / agreement envisaging a period 
of obligatory service in respect of training 
and subsequent courses will not supersede the 
provisions of Section 11 of the air force act 
stated above. Retirement from the air force will 
be applicable under conditions specified in the 
air force Pensions and Gratuities code.  
 (l) All officers are liable to be posted for duty or 
training in any part of the world at any time.
 (m) All officers are governed by the Air Force Act 
and orders issued from time to time.
 (n) A single officer is required to live in the Officers 
Mess. he / She are provided with furnished 
accommodation and food. Batman service 
will also be provided. A single officer's ration 
allowance and batman allowance are paid to the 
Mess.
 (p) A married officer may be provided with a married 
quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as 
per the Establishment Code. Married officers not 
in occupation of married quarters will be entitled 
to a rental allowance as stated in para 6. e. (16).   
6.  Pay and Allowances :
 (a) Since a consolidated revision is in progress at 
present, and same revision completes in year 
2020, following are the amounts payable in 2018. 
further it is to be noted that all consolidated 
salaries indicated below are the initial step of 
particular rank.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
515
Year 2017
(Annual)
Adjustment 
Allowance 2018 
(Annual)
2020
(Annual)Rank
Pilot Officer (Cadet) 367,356.00 20,844.00 463,260.00
Pilot Officer (Non Cadet) 398,796.00 12,444.00 502,860.00
Flying Officer 452,916.00 571380.00- (30x16020)  = 1051980.00
flight Lieutenant 529,164.00 667500.00 – (24x16020) = 1051980.00
Squadron Leader 579,996.00 731580.00 – (22x16020) = 1084020.00
 (b) Pay applicable to Medical Officers :
Year 2018
(Annual)
2020
(Annual)Grade
Preliminary Grade 516,456.00 651,780.00(3x16020-7x16140-2x19560-  16x26040)
Grade ii 554,652.00 699,660.00(3x16020-7x16140-2x19560-  16x26040)
Grade i 681,852.00 861,660.00(3x16020-7x16140-2x19560-  16x26040)
Specialist Grade 837,072.00 1,056,000.00 (12x32400)
 (c) Pay applicable to Dental Officers 
year 2018
(annual)
2020
(annual)Grade
Grade ii 503,748.00 635,460.00(3x16020-7x16140-2x19560- 16x26,040)
Grade i 681,852.00 861,660.00(3x16020-7x16140-2x19560-  16x26040)
Specialist Grade 837,072.00 1,056,000.00 (12x32400)
 (d) Other allowances applicable to Medical and Dental Officers
 (1) Pensionable allowances
   Preliminary Grade -  Rs.1,700.00 per month
  Grade ii -  Rs.1,700.00 per month 
  Grade i -  Rs.3,400.00 per month 
  Specialist Grade  -  Rs.3,400.00 per month
 (2) Non Pensionable allowances 
  Preliminary Grade -  Rs.2,125.00 per month
  Grade ii -  Rs.1,700.00 per month 
  Grade i -  Rs.   400.00 per month 
 (3) dat  allowance -  Rs.35,000.00 per month
 (4) Extra duty payments
  Preliminary Grade -  Rs.335.00 per hour
  Grade ii -  Rs.383.00 per hour
  Grade i -  Rs.528.00 per hour 
  Specialist Grade  -  Rs.628.00 per hour
 (5) Language proficiency allowance
  Preliminary Grade -  Rs.1209.00 per month
  Grade ii -  Rs 1217.00 per month
  Grade i -  Rs.1872.00 per month
  Specialist Grade  -  Rs.2294.00 per month
  

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
516
 (6) Service allowances indicated in paragraph 
“e” are to be calculated separately as 
applicable.
 (e) Service Allowances  :
 (1) cost of living allowance Rs.7, 800.00 per 
month. 
 (2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250.00 per 
month after five years of service.
 (3) hard lying allowance Rs. 20.00 per day.
 (4)  additional hard lying allowance Rs. 4,380.00 
per month for those serving in operational 
areas. 
 (5) Special allowance (1) Rs. 3,100.00 per month 
(Rs.100.00 will be paid for per day)
 (6) interim allowance Rs.1, 000.00 per month.
 (7)  Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255.00 per 
month.
 (8)  Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if 
permitted to live out).
 (9)  Ration allowance Rs. 17,349.46 per month (if 
permitted to live out Rs.559.66 per day).
 (10) Qualification pay where applicable (upto a 
maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
 (11)  three sets of holiday railway warrants per 
year (for officer, spouse and children).
 (12) an additional set of railway warrants or the 
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living 
in Messes to travel from the Mess to the 
hometown once a month.
 (13) free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
 (14) free medical facilities (including for families 
if applicable).
 (15) Married officers permitted to live out are 
entitled to a free bus pass to travel from 
residence to place of work within 30 miles 
radius.
 (16) Rent allowance for married officers not in 
occupation of a government married quarter. 
Pilot Officer to Group Captain and above 
Rs.1, 600.00 to Rs. 4,250.00 per month.
 (17) Service allowance Rs.300.00, Rs.400.00, 
Rs.500.00 as applicable (Payable to service 
Medical and Dental Officers in consideration 
to the number of complete years of service)
 (18) additional service allowance Rs.1, 500.00 
per month (applicable to service Medical and 
Dental Officers only)
 (19) 1/20 allowance - con pay x 1/20 x 3 days 
(Maximum) per month (applicable to service 
Medical and Dental Officers only)
 (20) Extra duty Payments 120 hrs (Maximum) 
per month (applicable to service Medical and 
Dental Officers only)
 (21) t elephone Bill allowances - 
  Specialist doctors - Rs. 8,000.00 per month 
  doctors  - Rs. 4,000.00 per month
 
7.  Pensions/Gratuities.–  Payable in terms of the air 
force Pensions & Gratuities code 1981 and as amended 
from time to time. All officers are contributors to the 
Widows and orphans Pension (armed forces) Scheme. 
Rates of contributions are as per Widows and orphans 
Pension (armed forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.
8.  Instructions to applicants :
 (a) applications should be submitted in terms of the 
form specified below. All cages of the application 
should be completed neatly with as much details 
as possible. applications should be addressed to 
"COmmAND RECRuITING OffICER, SRI 
LANkA AIR fORCE TRADE TRAINING 
SChOOL, EkALA, kOTuGODA" so as to 
reach him not later than 1200 noon on 05
th march 
2018 under registered cover. the envelope 
enclosing the application should be marked   
"APPLICATION fOR COmmISSION IN 
ThE ……………… bRANCh". applications 
received after the closing date and not in 
accordance with the requirements of this 
notification and not in registered post mail will 
not be entertained. 

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
517
 (b) candidates who are in Government Service /
corporations /Boards/ civil Establishments 
should forward their applications through their 
heads of department/ corporations/Boards/
Civil Establishments and should bear a certificate 
to the effect that the candidate will be released if 
selected. 
 (c) candidates will be required to produce the 
originals with certified photocopy of the 
following documents when summoned for 
interviews or when called upon to do so:-
 (1) Certificate of Registration of Birth with 
a photocopy (Certificate issued for the 
purpose of the education code will not be 
accepted).
 (2) National identity card and a photocopy.
 (3) Original certificates in support of the 
educational and professional qualifications 
required for the branch applied and a 
photocopy.
 (4) Certificates of trade / technical training 
and/ or experience (if any) obtained from a 
recognized institution and a photocopy.
 (5) Two recent certificates of character 
(within 06 months obtained). One of 
these should be from the Principal of the 
last school attended and the other from a 
responsible person who has the know of 
the applicant for more than two years or 
from the present employer (if employed).
  (6) Original certificates in support of sports 
activities and Extra curricular activities and 
a photo copy.
  (7)  A plain folder with file tag.
  (8) A colour photo of 2x2½ inches certified by 
the Grama Niladari.
 (d) applications of candidates who fail to produce 
documents when requested to do so will not be 
considered.
 (e) No documents or original copies of documents 
should be attached to the application form.
 (f) the air force will not be responsible for loss of 
any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form.
9. any statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to 
dismissal if discovered after the selection.
10.  Selection Interview :
 (a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst 
those candidates who fulfil the above conditions. 
candidates so selected from the Preliminary 
interview will be required to undergo a medical 
test as may be prescribed by the commander 
of the Air Force. The final selection will then 
be made after an interview appointed by the 
Ministry of defence. 
 (b) candidates selected for interviews will be 
informed in writing of the place, time and date of 
such interviews. No travelling or other expenses 
will be paid in this respect.
 (c) on every occasion an applicant is summoned 
for an interview he / she is to produce his / her 
National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons.
 (d) candidates likely to be suitable following their 
final interviews will be required to present 
themselves before an air force Medical Board.
 (e) anyone who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving his / her testimonial. 
Any form of canvassing or attempt to influence 
in the selection of a candidate will result in 
disqualification of such candidate.
 (f) candidates who are found unsuitable for 
enlistment will not be notified.
    
 KVB J
ayamPathy,
     WWV , RWP, RSP and 
 three Bars, fndu (china), qhi
 air Marshal,
 commander of the air force.
headquarters,
Sri Lanka air force,
Po Box 594,
colombo 02.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
518
aPPLicatioN foR coMMiSSioN iN thE SRi 
LaNKa REGULaR/VoLUNtEER aiR foRcE 
iN thE ……………………………BRaNch
 1. Nationality :–––––––––––.
  (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration and if latter, quote number and date of 
certificate)
 2. full Name (as per the National identity card) :–––––.
 3. National  identity card Number :–––––––––––.
 4. Branch applied :–––––––––––.
 5. Post applied :–––––––––––.
 6. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
 7. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :–––––––.
 8. School attended :–––––––––––.
 9. Postal address :–––––––––––.
 10. E-mail address :–––––––––––.
 11. date of Birth :–––––––––––.
  (age as at 30th June, 2018) :
   y ears :––––––  Months :–––––––  days :–––––––.
 12. height :–––––cm (................feet ..................inches)
 13. district :–––––––––––.
 14. Electorate :–––––––––––.
 15. GN division and Number :–––––––––––.
 16. t elephone Number :–––––––––––.
 17. civil status :–––––––––––.
 18. Particulars of School and/or University and 
qualifications obtained : 
 Name of  Type of  Year of  Subjects passed
 School/ examination examination (including
  University   grading)
 ordinary 
  Level
 advanced 
  Level
 Professional 
  Qualifications
 other
 19. Particular s of employment since leaving School (if 
applicable ) :
 Name and address Nature of Period of Service 
 of employer employment From        To 
 20. Particulars of parents : 
 Full Name Place of Occupation Present 
  Birth  address 
 Father 
 Mother 
 21. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
 22. details of current achievement in sports. (Give details 
of teams and competitions participated with dates/years 
etc. and standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––.
 23. other achievements of note at School/University or 
with outside organizations. (Give details with dates/
years etc.) : –––––––––––.
 24. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer 
force, cadet corps or Boy Scout organization :                
–––––––––––.
 25. have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka air force 
or any of the armed Services or Police, if so give details 
and the outcome of such applications : –––––––––––.
 26. have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or 
military court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
 27. if earlier employed in a Government department or 
in the Public Sector/Board/corporation (including the 
central Bank, National Bank, Universities, Joint Stock 
companies controlled by the Government etc.,) reasons 
for termination of employment :––––––––––.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
519
 28. Particulars of testimonials : 
 Name Designation Postal Address 
 29. declaration to be s igned by the applicant : 
i, declare on my honour that answers given to the above 
questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which 
will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of 
those candidates who are selected for commission in the Sri 
Lanka air force published in the Gazette of the Repubilc of 
Sri Lanka. 
  ––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
date :–––––––––––.
03–380

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
520
NEW SCALES Of  ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of  ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of  SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuAR y   01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government 
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every friday. day of publication is subject to alteration in 
any week where Public holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should be 
addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuAR y  1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.)  580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade Mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2018
521
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of   GAZETTE
thE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2018
 mARCh 02.03.2018 friday — 16.02.2018 friday 12 noon
  09.03.2018 friday –– 23.02.2018 friday 12 noon
  16.03.2018 friday –– 02.03.2018 friday 12 noon
  23.03.2018 friday –– 09.03.2018 friday 12 noon
  29.03.2018 thursday –– 16.03.2018 friday 12 noon
 APRIL 06.04.2018 friday — 23.03.2018 friday 12 noon
  12.04.2018 thursday –– 29.03.2018 thursday 12 noon
  20.04.2018 friday –– 06.04.2018 friday 12 noon
  27.04.2018 friday –– 12.04.2018 thursday 12 noon
 mAy  04.05.2018 friday — 20.04.2018 friday 12 noon
  11.05.2018 friday –– 27.04.2018 friday 12 noon
  18.05.2018 friday –– 04.05.2018 friday 12 noon
  25.05.2018 friday –– 11.05.2018 friday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. (Acting)
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2018.
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.