

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2391$02 - 2024 cQ,s ui 01 jeks i÷od - 2024.07.01
No. 2391/02  -  moNday,   july   01, 2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Central Bank of Sri Lanka Notices
1a- G 42147 - 24 (07/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
CENTRAL   BANK   OF   SRI   LANKA   ACT ,   NO.   16   OF   2023
RulES made under Section 105 read with Sections 7(1) (c) and Part VI of the Central Bank of Sri lanka act, No. 16 of 
2023.
    P. Nandalal Weerasinghe,
   Chairperson of the Governing Board and 
   Governor of the Central Bank of Sri lanka.
   
Central Bank of Sri lanka,
Colombo,
01
st july, 2024.
REPATRIATION    OF   EXPORT    PROCEEDS    INTO   SRI   LANKA
	 1.		 These Rules shall be cited as the “Repatriation of Export Proceeds into Sri lanka Rules No. 01 of 2024” and shall 
come into effect on the date on which these Rules are approved by the Parliament.
	 2.		 The Central Bank of Sri lanka, acting in terms of the provisions of Section 105 read in conjunction with the 
provisions of the Section 7(1) (c) and Part VI of the Central Bank of Sri lanka act, No. 16 of 2023, hereby issues 
Rules in respect of the receipt of export proceeds into Sri lanka and the conversion of such export proceeds into 
Sri lanka Rupees.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.07.2024
2a
	 3.	 Every exporter of goods and /or services shall;
 (i) mandatorily receive the export proceeds in Sri lanka, in respect of all goods exported and /or services provided 
outside Sri lanka, within one hundred and eighty (180) days from the date of shipment or provisioning of 
services, as the case may be and, 
 (ii) immediately upon receipt of export proceeds, forthwith submit all related documentary evidence on each 
and every receipt of export proceeds, in respect of every export of goods and /or services to the respective 
licensed bank, that receives such proceeds, in Sri lanka.
	 4.	 Every exporter of goods, who receives export proceeds in Sri lanka, in terms of Rule 3 above, shall mandatorily 
convert residual of the export proceeds received in Sri lanka, into Sri lanka Rupees upon utilizing such proceeds 
only in respect of the below mentioned authorized payments, on or before the tenth (10
th ) day of the month after 
expiration of three (03) calendar months including the month of receipt thereof, from the date of receipt of export 
proceeds.
 (i)  payments in respect of current transactions related to the export business;
 (ii) debt servicing expenses and repayment of foreign currency loans and accommodations obtained by the 
exporter of goods, where such foreign currency loan/ accommodation is a permitted borrowing in terms of 
the Regulations, orders and directions issued by the Central Bank of Sri lanka under the provisions of the 
Foreign Exchange act, No. 12 of 2017 or Banking act, No. 30 of 1988, as amended;  
 (iii) payments of dividends declared to non-resident investors and /or payments of salaries to expatriate employees 
who are foreign nationals or dual citizens as permitted under the directions issued in terms of the provisions 
of the Foreign Exchange act, No. 12 of 2017;
 (iv) withdrawal in foreign currency notes or transfer of funds for travel purposes related to export business; 
 (v) payments in respect of making investments in Sri lanka development Bonds in foreign currency up to ten 
per-centum (10%) of the export proceeds, so received; and
 (vi) payments to indirect exporters of goods and services who have commitments in foreign currency as permitted 
under the directions issued in terms of the provisions of the Foreign Exchange act, No. 12 of 2017.
	 5.	 Exporters who are not in compliance with Rule 3 above may subject to the regulatory actions and shall convert the 
export proceeds repatriated to Sri Lanka with immediate effect. 
	 6.	 Every indirect exporter of goods and services who receive payments in foreign currency out of the export proceeds 
in terms of Rule 4 (vi) above, shall convert the residual of such receipts into Sri lanka Rupees, upon utilizing the 
same only in respect of the authorized payments as stipulated in the Rule 4 (i) to (v), on or before the tenth (10
th ) 
day of the month after expiration of three (03) calendar months including the month of receipt thereof, from the 
date of such receipt.
	 7.	 all licensed banks shall require monitoring the receipts of exports proceeds in Sri lanka, within the period 
stipulated in Rule 3 above and the conversion of such proceeds as required in Rules 4 and 6 above and shall at all 
times, maintain all necessary documentary evidence relating to, or in connection therewith.
	 8.	 licensed banks and exporters who are permitted to access the Export Proceeds monitoring System of the Central 
Bank of Sri lanka shall ensure at all times, submission of necessary information to the said Export Proceeds 
monitoring System, as may be required by the director, department of Foreign Exchange of the Central Bank of 
Sri lanka.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.07.2024
3a
	 9.	 all licensed banks and exporters/indirect exporters shall submit reports and/or statements to the director, 
department of Foreign Exchange of the Central Bank of Sri lanka, as may be required from time to time.
	 10.	 The officers of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka may inspect or examine the reports and/or statements referred under 
Rule 9 above for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of such reports and/or statements. 
	 11.	 The director, department of Foreign Exchange of the Central Bank of Sri lanka shall have the right to initiate 
actions against any non-compliance with, or transgression of these Rules, by any exporter/indirect exporter or 
licensed bank, in respect of the export of goods and/ or services, in terms of these Rules.
	 12.	 These Rules shall apply in respect of all and every export of goods and/or services, made on or after the effective 
date of these Rules, and shall also apply to the export of goods and/or services, made prior to the effective date 
of these Rules, where the hundred and eightieth (180
th ) date from the date of the shipment of such goods or 
provisioning of services falls on any date after these Rules come into force.
	 13.	 The director, department of Foreign Exchange of the Central Bank of Sri lanka shall have power to issue operating 
instructions to the licensed banks time to time for the prudent and efficient implementation of these Rules.
	 14.	 For the purposes of these Rules – 
“current transactions” shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange act, No. 12 of 2017.
“export proceeds” shall also include proceeds of export bills purchases (bill discounting), payments received 
through local agents /intermediaries for the goods and /or services exported by manufacturers/service 
providers and payments received in foreign exchange by a person resident in Sri lanka for the services 
provided including professional, vocational, occupational or business services provided to a person 
resident outside Sri lanka.
“Export Proceeds monitoring System” shall mean the computerized system implemented by the Central 
Bank of Sri lanka for the purpose of monitoring export proceeds repatriation into Sri lanka. 
“licensed banks” shall mean Commercial Banks or Specialized Banks, licensed under the Banking act, No. 
30 of 1988, (as amended).
“withdrawal of foreign currency notes or transfer of funds for travel purposes” shall be in terms of the 
directions issued to the licensed banks by the Central Bank of Sri lanka, under Section 9 of the 
Foreign Exchange act, No.12 of 2017, in that behalf.
	 15.	 The Repatriation of Export Proceeds into Sri lanka Rules No. 1 of 2022, issued by the monetary Board of the 
Central Bank of Sri Lanka and published in the Gazette (Extraordinary) Notification No. 2270/66, dated 11
th  march 
2022, as amended, by the Repatriation of Export Proceeds into Sri lanka Rules No. 2 of 2022 published in the 
Gazette (Extraordinary) Notification No. 2292/50, dated 12
th  august 2022, are hereby repealed, without prejudice 
to anything done thereunder.
EoG  07 - 0011
PRINTEd a T THE dEP aRTmENT oF GoVERNmENT PRINTING,  SRI laNKa.