

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2011
953
953
wxl 1"710 - 2011 cqks ui 10 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'06'10
No. 1,710 – FRIDAY , JUNE 10, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 955
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... ––
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 17th June, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 03rd June,
2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-II(A) and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,709 of 03.06.2011 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2011
954
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2011
955
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium
KALUTARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 11th Jul y, 2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
20th May, 2011.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Kalutara Beruwala Post of Registrar of Births, Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
and Deaths (Tamil Medium) of General, District Secretariat,
Beruwala Divisional Secretary’s Kalutara
Division
06–145
–––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium
BADULLA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2011
956
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 11th Jul y, 2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
20th May, 2011.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Badulla Bandarawela Post of Registrar of Marriages, Births District Secretary/Additional Registrar
and Deaths (Tamil Medium) of General, District Secretariat,
Bandarawela Divisional Secretary’s Badulla
Division
Badulla Haliela Post of Registrar of Marriages, Births District Secretary/Additional Registrar
and Deaths (Tamil Medium) of General, District Secretariat,
Haliela Divisional Secretary’s Badulla
Division
Badulla Meegahakivula Post of Registrar of Marriages, Births District Secretary/Additional Registrar
and Deaths (Tamil Medium) of General, District Secretariat,
Meegahakivula Divisional Secretary’s Badulla
Division
Badulla Badulla Post of Medical Registrar of Births District Secretary/Additional Registrar
and Deaths of Badulla Town Division General, District Secretariat,
(Tamil Medium) Badulla
Badulla W elimada Post of Registrar of Marriages, Births District Secretary/Additional Registrar
and Deaths (Tamil Medium) of General, District Secretariat,
Welimada Divisional Secretary’s Badulla
Division
06–144
––––––––––––––––
BUILDINGS  DEPARTMENT
VACANCIES of –
(i) Technical Officer in the Sri Lanka Technological Service (Civil)
- Class II Segment “B”
(ii) Technical Officer in the Sri Lanka Technical Officer (Electrical)
- Class II Segment - “B”
(iii) Draughts Person in the Sri Lanka Technological Service -
Training Grade
Applications are invited by the Director General of Buildings
from the Citizens of Sri lanka Possessing Minimum qualifications
stated in this notification for the above vacant posts in the Ministry
of Construction, Engineering Services, Housing and Common
Amenities and in the Buildings Department.
2.0 Applications prepared using both sides of A4 paper and in
accordance with the specimen form appended to this notification
should be reached by “Director General of Buildings, Buildings

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2011
957
Department, “Sethsiripaya, Battaramulla” on or before 30.06.2011
by Registered Post. Post applied should be indicated on the top left
hand corner of the envelope. Applications from officers in the
Public Service must be forwarded through the Heads of Departments.
Late and incomplete applications shall be rejected.
3.0 Conditions of Recruitment :
3.1 The post is permanent and pensionable. Selected
applicants are liable to contribute to the Widows’ and
Orphans’ Pension Scheme/Widowers’ and Orphans’
Pension Scheme.
3.2 The applicant will be subject to the provisions of section
10-12, Chapter 11 of the Establishment Code.
3.3 Selected applicants should abide by the provisions of
the Establishment Code, the Financial Regulations,
Departmental Orders and any other Regulations or
Orders issued from time to time by the Government.
4.0 General Qualifications :
4.1 Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
4.2 Should have an excellent moral character and should be
physically sound.
4.3 Applicants should serve in any part of the Island in
which you are called upon to serve.
4.4. Should not be less than 18 years and not be more than
45 years of age at the closing date of applications. (The
maximum age limit will not apply for those who are
already in the Public Service.).
5.0 Educational Qualications  required for all posts  :
5.1 Should have passed the  G. C. E. (Ordinary Level)
Examination in six (06) subjects with four (04) Credit
passes including Language or Literature, Mathematics,
Science and any other subject in not more than two
sittings ; and
5.2 Should have passed the G . C. E. (Advanced Level)
Examination with three (03) Science subjects including
Applied Mathematics/Pure Mathematics/Combined
Mathematics and Physics in one sitting
6.0 Other Qualifications Required :
6.1 Draughts Person - Training Grade  :
In addition to the educational qualifications stated in
5.0 above, one of the following related technological
qualifications should be completed and possess the
relevant certificate at the closing date of application :
(i) Full time training course of one year on
draughtsmanship from a recognized Government
Technical College.
(ii) Any other technological qualification recognized
by the Sri Lanka Technological Service Board as
being equivalent to the Technological qualification
mentioned above.
6.2 Technical Officer (Civil) - Class II Segment "B".
Technical Officer (Electrical) - Class II Segment "B"
In addition to the above qualifications in 5.0, one of the
following professional qualifications in relevant field
should be completed and possess the relevant certificate
at the closing date of applications :
(i) National Diploma in Technology awarded by the
University of Moratuwa or Hardy Technical
Institute, Ampara ;
(ii) National Diploma in Engineering awarded by the
National Apprenticeship and Industrial Training
Authority ;
(iii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering awarded
by the Ministry of Education and Higher
Education ;
(iv) Diploma in Technology awarded by the Open
University of Sri Lanka ;
(v) Successfully completed the 1st part of the
Engineering Examinations conducted by the
Institute of Engineering Sri Lanka ;
(vi) Any other technological qualifications
recognized by the Sri Lanka Technological Service
Board as being equivalent to the technological
qualification mentioned above.
7.0 Selection Criteria :
7.1 Conditions of competitive written Examination :
Eligible applicants have to sit for the written competitive
examination and obtain minimum of 40% marks for each
question paper to qualify.
Applicants will be called for an interview in accordance
with the order of marks obtained at the examination and
selection will be in order of the marks. No marks will be
given at the interview other than examination educational
and other certificates.
7.2 Syllabus for the competitive written examination :
(i) Technical knowledge (01 hour)
For the post of Technical Officer (Civil)
* Dimensions, knowledge of plans, foundations,
types of soil, building materials, building
structures and finishes taking of quantities
through building plans, preparation of estimates,
water supply and sewerage systems.
For the post of Technical Officer (Electrical)
* Knowledge on electric circuits, electrical
regulations, knowledge of plans, preparation of
estimates and testing of circuits for the post of
Draughts Person

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2011
958
* Ability to draw plans for the buildings in a suitable
scale and preparation of notes.
(ii) General Knowledge and Intelligence Test (01 hour)
* Geography of Sri Lanka, History, Politics,
sports and important events occurred recently
(including international achievements).
* Important events in the world, Capital cities,
International Organizations and their functions.
* Ability to comprehend, logical common sense,
Decision making, solving statistical and
mathematical problems, phrases, knowledge on
using tables, graphs, pictures and diagrams.
7.3 Examination will be held in Sinhala and Tamil Medium.
8.0 Recruitment :
8.1 Selected applicants with educational and technical
qualifications under above 5.1, 5.2 and 6.1 will be
recruited to the Draughts Person - Training Grade.
Promotion to Class II Segment “B” of the Sri Lanka
Technological Service will be made once passing the
relevant examination after completing one year
Theoretical and Practical training as per syllabus.
8.2 Selected applicants with educational and professional
qualifications under above, 5.1, 5.2 and 6.2 will be
recruited to Class II Segment “B” in Sri Lanka
Technological Service.
9.0. Salary Scale :
Rs. 15,005 - 4 x 180 - 6 x 240 - 11 x 320 - 20 x 360 -
27,885 under MN -3-2006 A of Public Administration
Circular No.06/2006 (IV)
10.0 Scheme of Promotion :
All promotions will be made in accordance with the
Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Technological Service.
11.0 Implementation of Official Language Policy :
As per Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007 dated
28.04.2007 issued by the Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs, all officers recruited
to the Public Service after 01.07.2007 should acquire
proficiency in the other official language within a period
of five (05) years in addition to the Official language
through which they enter the service.
D. G. S. J
AYAKODY,
Director General of Buildings.
Buildings Department,
Sethsiripaya,
Battaramulla.
Specimen Application Form
BUILDINGS  DEPARTMENT
(i) Technical Officer in the Sri Lanka Technological Service (Civil)
- Class II “B”
(ii) T echnical Officer in the Sri Lanka Technological Service
(Electrical) - Class II “B”
(iii) Draughts Person in Sri Lanka Technological Service - Training
Grade.
For Office use
Medium for Competitive written examination
Sinhala - S
Tamil  - T
(Write the relevant English letter in the cage.)
Post applied :
Technical Officer (Civil) - 1
Technical Officer (Electrical) - 2
Draughts Person - 3
(Write the relevant number in the cage.)
01. (i) Last name with initails :–––––––––.
(ii) N ames denoted by initials (in Sinhala/in Tamil) :––––––––.
(iii) Name with initials (state in capital letters) :–––––––––.
02. Address and Telephone Numbers :
(i) Official Address :–––––––––.
Telephone Number :–––––––––.
(ii) Personal Address :–––––––––.
(iii) T elephone Number :–––––––––.
 (iv) Mobile Telephone Number :–––––––––.
03. Gender :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
04. National Identity Card Number :
05. (i) Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(ii) Age as the closing date of application :
Years :           Months :                Days :
06. Marital Status :
Unmarried - 1
Married - 2
(Write the relevant number in the cage.)

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2011
959
07. Particulars of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination (first sitting) (Please
attach copies) :
(i) Year and month of the examination :–––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :–––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass
....................... ............. .................. ..............
....................... ............. .................. ..............
....................... ............. .................. ..............
....................... ............. .................. ..............
....................... ............. .................. ..............
08. Particulars of the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination (Second sitting)
if required only (Please attach copies) :
(i) Year and month of the examination :–––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :–––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass
....................... ............. .................. ..............
....................... ............. .................. ..............
....................... ............. .................. ..............
09. Particulars on the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination (Please attach
copies) :
Year of the Examination passed :–––––––––.
Month :–––––––––. Date :–––––––––.
Index Number :–––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass
....................... ............. .................. ..............
....................... ............. .................. ..............
10. Other qualifications : Technical/Professional (Please attach
copies) :–––––––––.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
11. Experience in relation to the relevant field :–––––––––.
12. Certification of the applicant :–––––––––.
I hereby certify that the information given above is true and
correct. I am also aware that if any particulars contained here, is
found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification, if
detect before selection and to dismissal without compensation, if
detect after appointment.
––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
Only for the applicants who are in the Public Sector
This applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss.................... is presently attached
to this Ministry/Department as a Permanent/Temporary/Casual
officer. He/she can be released/cannot be released if selected to the
above post.
–––––––––,
Signature of Head of the Institute.
––––––––––
(Official Seal).
Designation :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
06-109