

<!-- page 1 -->

73
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024. 05'31
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka - 31.05.2024
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(P ublished by Authority)
PART  II  — LeGAL
(Separate paging is given to each Language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
ImPoRTAnT   noTIce  ReGARDInG   AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS  
foR   PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekL y  “GAzeTTe”
Attention  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th June 2024 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th June, 2024 
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2024.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
73 - 82575- 353 (05/2024)
 Page Page
 
Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... —
Miscellaneous Notices .... 74
wxl 2"387 - 2024  uehs ui 31 jeks isl=rdod - 2024 .05'31
no. 2,387 - FRIDAy,  MAy 31, 2024
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.-  The List of Jurrors in the year 2024 of the Jurisdiction Areas of Kegalle District has been Published in Part VI of this Gazette in Sinhala Tamil and 
   English Languages
Note.- (i) Civil Procedure Code (Amendment) Bill is published as a Supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of  Sri Lanka of May 03, 2024
 (ii) Sri Lanka Institute of Quantity Surveyor Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Bill is published as supplement to the Part II of the Gazette 
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 17, 2024.
 

<!-- page 2 -->

74
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024.05'31
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka - 31.05.2024
Miscellaneous Notices
PARLIAmenT
An Act, to Incorporate the Al- hashimi Association
I, Seyed Ali Zahir Moulana, do hereby give notice under No. 53(1) of the Standing Order of the Parliament of the         
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, that I propose to Introduce to Parliament a Bill entitled "An Act, to Incorporate 
the Al – Hashimi Association".
The aim of the Bill is to  incorporate the said Association which has the following general objects:-
 ( a)  to help enrich the living standards of all those deemed deserving;
 ( b)  to help needy among us to meet their obligations towards educational  needs, health care needs and other basic needs 
of daily life ; and
 ( c)  to assist them in  sourcing employment suitable  to  their social and educational standings.
etc. 
 Seyed Ali Zahir Moulana,
 Member of Parliament.
05-307
PARLIAmenT
An Act, to Incorporate the '' Gk foundation"
I, Govindan Karunakaram do hereby give notice under Standing Order No. 53 (1) of the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka that I propose to introduce in Parliament a Bill titled "An Act, to Incorporate the GK Foundation"
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said "GK Foundation" which has the following general objects :-
(1) To guide everyone to avail educational opportunities from pre – school to university level and especially 
motivate the people in remote villages, who are enthusiastic to study in the stremes of agriculture, engineering, 
medicine and legal education.
(2) Providing awaraness on thrift, saving and self – employment for the people by mobilizing them for programs 
on eradication of poverty and hunger.
(3) To provide relief to the members of the family who are affected by the sudden death of a family member and 
to provide the maximum support necessary to carry out the fueneral arrangements
etc.
 Govindan Karunakaram,
 Member of Parliament.
 
05-312

<!-- page 3 -->

75
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024.05'31
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka - 31.05.2024
PRINTED   AT  THE  DEPARTMENT   OF  GOVERNMENT   PRINTING ,  SRI  LANKA .
In The hIGh couRT  of The WeSTeRn PRovInce 
holden in colombo (In the exercise of its civil Jurisdiction)
in  the matter of an application for winding up by Court under 
and in terms of Section 270 of Part XII of the Companies Act, 
No.07 of 2007 (as amended) of Elysian Mirissa (Private) Limited 
(PV 8924) having its registered office at No. 367/58, 2
nd  Floor, 
Nawalapitiya Road, Jayamalapura, Gampola.
James Sunimal Salgadoe,
168/6, Siri Jayasundera Mawatha,
Nugegoda.
.........................Petitioner.
Notice is hereby that a petition for the winding up of the above – named Company by the High Court of the Western Province 
in the exercising of its civil  Jurisdiction Holden in Colombo was, on 20
th  October 2023 presented to the Said Court by above 
named petitioner and the said petition is directed to be heard before the Court on the 23 rd  July 2024, and any Creditor of 
Contributory of said Company desirous to support or oppose the making of an order on the said petition may appear at the time 
of hearing in person or by his Attorney-at –law for that purpose and a copy of the petition will be furnished to any Creditor or 
Contributory of the said  Company requiring the same  by undersigned on payment of the prescribed charged for the same.
A. D. Shayamali I. Athukorala,
Attorney- at-Law for the Petitioner,
No. 166/1, Hulftsdorp Street, Colombo 12.
Note :- Any person who intends to appear on the hearing of the said Petition must serve on or send by post to the above – 
named Attorney-at- Law for the Petitioner, notice in writing of his intention so to do. The notice must state – the name and 
address of the person, or a firm the name and address of a firm, or his or their Attorney –at-Law (if any) and must be served, 
or if posted must be sent  by post in sufficient time to reach the above named no later than six (6.00 p.m.) o' clock in the 
afternoon of the 22
nd  July 2024.
05-313
Case No : CHC/88/2023/CO
Nature : Winding up