

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.09.2019
w;s úfYI
wxl 2140$33 - 2019 iema;eïn¾ ui 10 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2019'09'10
No. 2140/33  - TUESDAY,  SEPTEMBER 10,  2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A- G 30964 - 12(2019/09)
Pilgrimages Ordinance
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Internal & Home Affairs and Provincial Councils & Local  Government in terms
of Section 2 of Pilgrimages Ordinance. (Chap. 175).
WAJIRA ABEYWARDHANA,
Internal & Home Affairs and
Provincial Councils & Local Government.
Ministry of Internal & Home Affairs and Provincial Councils &
Local Government,
Nila Medura New Building,
Elvitigala Mawatha,
Narahenpita,
Colombo 05.
10th September, 2019.


<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.09.2019
Regulations
1. These regulations may be cited as the regulation of Perahera of Mihinthale Rajamaha Viharaya, in the Grama
Niladaris’s Division of Mihinthale 577, Divisional Secretary’s Division of Mihinthale, Anuradhapura District.
2. In these regulations:
“Camp area” means the area described in the Schedule.
. “District Secretary/ Government Agent” means the Government Agent of Anuradhapura Administrative District
and it also includes any officer authorized by him in terms of regulation 4.
“Medical Officer” means the  Medical officer in charge of the camp area.
“Pilgrim” means any person who enters and stays within the camp area for any purpose.
“Police Officer” includes any Grama Niladhari in charge of the camp area.
“Public Health Inspector” means the public health inspector in charge of the camp area.
3. These regulations shall apply to the pilgrimages made on account of the Perahera festival of Mihinthale Rajamaha
Viharaya in the Grama Niladaris’s Division of Mihinthale 577, Divisional Secretary’s Division of Mihinthale,
Anuradhapura District.
4. The District Secretary/ Government Agent shall have the power to authorize any public officer in writing to
exercise any power vested in him and carry out any function assigned to him under this regulation.
5. I.  The District Secretary/ Government Agent shall have the power to regulate vehicular traffic or walking to or
from or within the camp area.
II.  No person shall act contrary to any lawful order given by any police officer in compliance with the
 instructions issued to such police officer by the District Secretary/ Government Agent for the exercise of
 powers vested in him under the Para (1) of this regulation.
6. No person shall bring any cattle or any other animal into the camp area without the written permission of the
District Secretary/ Government Agent. However, this regulation shall not apply in instance where carts are
brought and cattle are driven to a place reserved for the purpose of leaving carts and cattle, under regulation 7.
7. (1) The District Secretary/ Government Agent shall have the power to reserve or provide the following places
       inside the camp area.
(a) Parking places for buses and other motor vehicles.
(b) Places for leaving carts and cattle.
(c) Separate places for the accommodation of each group of pilgrims.
(d) Places to rest for the pilgrims who fall sick.
(e) Places for begging and solicitation for charity.
(f) Places for displaying certain items for sale.
(g) Places suitable for putting up huts for various purposes.
(h) Places for the use of pilgrims for washing and bathing.
(i) Tanks, wells, water holes for the use of pilgrims for obtaining drinking water and  other places
providing such facilities.
(j) Places for other purposes the District Secretary/ Government Agent may deem necessary.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.09.2019
(2) If the District Secretary/ Government Agent deems necessary and in case of any place is reserved or provided
for certain purpose under Para (I) by him, action shall be taken to erecting a notice or name board stating the
purpose for which the place is reserved.
(3) (I) In case of any place is reserved or provided for certain purpose under Para (I), that place shall strictly be
used for such purpose and no one shall use any other place within the camp area for such purpose.
8. If the District Secretary/ Government Agent or Medical Officer is of the view that it is required to add chlorine to
any tank, wells, water holes or reservoir situated in the camp area or it is required to be closed for prevention of
diseases, the District Secretary/ Government Agent or Medical Officer shall have the power to do so.
9. (1) No one shall build any hut or temporary or permanent construction or any other construction or make a new
addition to existing building or any other construction for any purpose in any place within the camp area,
reserved  or  provided  for  certain  purpose  under  regulation 7,  except  on a permit issued by  the District
Secretary/ Government Agent for the relevant purpose and in accordance with the conditions stipulated in
such permit.
(2) If any person builds any hut or temporary or permanent building or any other construction or  make a  new
addition to existing building or construction contrary to the Para (I) of this regulation, subsequent to delivery
of a written notice to that person, it is lawful for the District Secretary/ Government Agent to order to remove
or demolish such hut or building or construction within the period of time given in the notice as the case may
be.
(3) Where  any  person  who  has  been  delivered  a  notice under  Para (2) of this regulation, neglects to act in
compliance with the requirements stipulated in that notice within the period stated there in or where a doubt
arises  as  to  who  is  the  actual  person  to  whom such notice is to be delivered, it is lawful for the District
Secretary/ Government Agent to cause action to be taken to remove or demolish such hut building, construction
or a new addition made to the existing building or construction as the case may be. It is also lawful  for the
District Secretary/ Government Agent to make arrangements to enter to any land or premises  together with
labourers, equipment.
10. No one shall excrete within the camp area except in a lavatory with a notice or sign stating that it is reserved for the
use of pilgrims.
11. No one shall contaminate any tank, wells, water holes, reservoir, canal stream or brook located in the camp area.
12. No one shall dispose liquid or material garbage in the camp area except in a place or in a container supplied by the
District Secretary/ Government Agent for this purpose.
13. (1)    District Secretary/ Government Agent shall have the power to stream line the distribution of cooked meals
        and  beverages to the pilgrims in the camp area.
(2)    No one  shall  disobey any  lawful order  to be carried out by  Police Officer or a Public Health Inspector in
         accordance  with  instructions  given by  District  Secretary/Government  Agent  in  the  exercise of powers
         delegated to him under Para (I) of this regulation.
14. (1)    Where  any  food  or  drink displayed or placed for sale or distribution among the pilgrims within the camp
area  is found to be  contaminated or harmful for human  consumption, the District  Secretary/ Government
Agent or the Medical Officer or the Public Health Inspector may announce that Such food or drink is not
suitable for human consumption.
(2)   No one shall sell or distribute within the camp area any food or drink announced as not suitable for  human
        consumption under Para (I) of this regulation

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.09.2019
(3)    It  shall  be  lawful for any  Police  Officer or Public Health Inspector to prohibit selling or distribution and
          destroy any food or drink announced harmful for human consumption under Para (I) of the regulation.
15. No person shall maintain a bakery, sweet stall or a place where sweet are made, eating house or Dansal in any place
in the camp area including reserved or provided for any purpose under the regulation 7 unless they are maintained
on a license  issued by the  District  Secretary/ Government Agent and in accordance with  conditions stipulated
there in. Every license shall be issued free of charge  on  recommendation of the Medical  officer  or  any  officer
authorized by such medical officer.
16. All bakeries, sweet stalls, places where sweets are made, eating houses and Dansal and all furniture and equipment
in such place in the camp area shall be kept in hygienic condition.
17. All cakes, sweet and cooked meals displayed or placed for sale or  distribution in the camp area  shall be kept in
show case properly made preventing the flies from entering to the satisfaction of the Medical officer or the Public
Health Inspector.
18. No tea, coffee and milk dregs or leavings of any food or drink or waste disposed in cooking or other wastes shall
be left at any place within the camp area. All such dregs or wastes shall be dumped in to the  container  placed as
provided in  regulation 19.   However wastes,  milk dregs  or  any refuse have been found thrown over any place
within the  camp  area or on the ground  close by, the owner or chief occupant of such place or in case of bakery,
sweet stall, place  where sweets are made or eating house or  ‘Dansal’  the  license  holder of  such place shall be
deemed to have violated provisions in this regulations unless such owner, chief occupant or license holder proves
that all necessary precautions have been taken and action has been taken with proper care to prevent the commission
of such offence.
19. All bakeries, sweet stalls, places where sweets are made, eating houses, Dansal and buildings or constructions used
for commercial or business purpose shall be provided with a wooden, metal or plastic garbage  container  with a
capacity of 1 1/2 cubic meters (4 
 1/2 cubic feet) and it shall always be closed with a wooden, metal or plastic lid
unless it is used to dump or remove garbage.
20. (1) If the District Secretary/ Government Agent is of the view that any bakery, sweet stall, place where sweets
are made , eating house, Danasal or business place has been established or  maintained in  violation of
regulations 16,17,18 or 19 in this section he shall order the authority to close down such bakery , sweet
stall , place where sweets are made, eating house, Dansal or business place situated within the camp area
or cancel any license with immediate effect if any license has been issued for such place.
(2) Any person who is in charge of any bakery or sweet stall or place where sweets are made or eating house
or Dansal or business place shall act in accordance with the lawful directive made by the District Secretary/
Government Agent under chapter (1) of this section.
21. No person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious diseases shall enter the camp area.
22. (1)  It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/ Government Agent to order the pilgrims to  leave the camp
area and for the District Secretary/ Government Agent to determine the route of  leaving and  mode  of
transport to be used for leaving when on epidemic is spreading in such area.
(2) No person shall act against any legal order given by the District Secretary/ Government Agent under Para
(I) of this section.
23. Every person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious disease within the camp area, and when a person
is knowingly living together with a person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious disease, every such
person shall report it to the Medical Officer or the Public Health Inspector or any Police Officer immediately.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.09.2019
24. Any person who is in charge of any bakery, place where sweets are made, restaurant or Dansal within the camp area
shall not allow any person whom he knows is suffering from infectious diseases or contagious disease to enter such
bakery, place where sweets are made, eating house or Dansal or participate in the distribution, sale or manufacture
of any material or food or drink.
25. A license holder of any bakery, sweet stall, a place where sweets are made, eating house or Dansal or an owner or
chief occupant of any lodge or pilgrims’ rest shall not allow any person suffering from any infectious disease or
contagious disease to stay at anytime in such bakery, sweet stall, or place where sweets are made, eating house,
Dansal lodge or pilgrims’ rest as the case may be. When it is revealed that a person suffering from any infectious
disease or contagious disease is staying in such place the license holder or owner or chief occupant shall report it
to the Medical Officer or the Public Health Officer or any Police Officer immediately.
26. No person shall donate or distribute anything for charity either by cash or by any other means within the camp area
except in a place reserved or provided for begging and solicitation for charity under regulation 7.
27. No person shall light fire works or use any fire arms within the camp area without a written permission from the
District Secretary/ Government Agent.
28. No person shall unduly alter or remove any notice or name board displayed in any place under regulation 7 or 10.
29. It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/ Government Agent, Medical Officer, Public Health Inspector or any
Police Officer to,
(a) Enter any land or place within the camp area for the purpose of carrying out any regulation from
among these regulations and,
(b) To construct or erect a post in any land or place within the camp area for the purpose of displaying a
notice or a name board under regulation 7.
30. It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/ Government Agent to cancel the following at any time if he considers
that the cancellation is appropriate or it is for the benefit in the public interest.
(a) Any permission given under regulation 06 or regulation 27.
(b) Permit issued under regulation 09.
(c) Any license issued under regulation 15.
Schedule
The margins of the land which belongs to Mihinthale Rajamaha Viharaya which is situated in Grama Niladaris’s Division in
No. 577, Divisional Secretary’s Division of Mihinthale, Anuradhapura District are, indicated as follows:
North : A 12 Main Road
South  : Kaduwata Road
East : Kaduwata Road
West : A 9 Main Road
09 - 835
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.