

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
A
BILL
Presented by Hon. (Mrs.) Chandrani Bandara Jayasinghe, M.P.  for
Anuradhapura District on  21st May, 2013
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
——————
——————
[Bill No. 239]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on May 06, 2013)
K. D. M. CHANDRA BANDARA COMMUNITY
SERVICES FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the K. D. M. Chandra Bandara Community Services
Foundation
2—PL 007276—850  (05/2013)

<!-- page 2 -->

K. D. M. Chandra Bandara Community  Services
Foundation  (Incorporation)
1
5
10
15
2—PL 007147—75  (04/2013)
20
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE K. D. M. CHANDRA BANDARA
COMMUNITY SERVICES FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “K. D. M.
Chandra Bandara Community Services Foundation” has
heretofore been formed  for the purpose of effectually carrying
out its objects and  matters connected  with the said foundation
according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be expedient to grant the said
application :
BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the K. D. M. Chandra Bandara
Community Services Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.
of  2013.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many person as now are members of  the “K. D. M.
Chandra Bandara Community Services Foundation”
(hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter
be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby constituted,
shall be a body corporate, with perpetual succession under the
name and style of  the “K. D. M. Chandra Bandara Community
Services Foundation” (hereinafter referred as the  “Corporation”)
and by that name may sue and be sued, with full power and
authority to have and  use a common seal and to alter the same
at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be —
(a) to develop peace and unity among the nation ;
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the
K. D. M.
Chandra
Bandara
Community
Services a
Foundation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 K. D. M. Chandra Bandara Community  Services
Foundation  (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to give solution to the people who are suffering from
health problem and legal problems in the area ;
(c) to support and encourage the services provided by
senior citizens movements ;
(d) to enhance financial, political, educational, cultural
and social affairs through developing international
affairs ;
(e) to develop religious places belonging to all the
religions ;
(f) to organize seminars, workshop, lectures, exhibitions,
and educational tours with a view to promoting the
educational activities of school children ;
(g) to do all such other acts and things as are necessary.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provision of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation, be administered by a Board of
Directors consisting of Chairman and Secretary, Treasurer
and another eleven members elected in accordance with such
rules.
(2) The founder member of the Foundation, Hon. (Mrs.)
Chandrani Bandara Jayasinghe shall be the Chairman of the
Board of Directors for life and thereafter, the Family member
of the person who was holding office as Chairman shall
become the next Chairman of the Board of Directors.
(3) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Administration of the
Foundation holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

K. D. M. Chandra Bandara Community  Services
Foundation  (Incorporation)
3
5
10
15
20
25
(4) A member of the Board of Directors other than the
Chairman shall unless he vacates his office earlier by death
or resignation, hold office for a period of four years. Where
due to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Board of
Directors a new member shall be appointed to fill  such
vacancy and such a new members shall hold office for a period
of four years.
5. Subject to the provision of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, things and matters
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of objects of the Corporation or any one of
them, including the power to acquire and hold property
movable or immovable, to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise moneys with or without security,
to receive or collect grants or donations, to invest its funds
and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time at any general meeting of the members and by a majority
of votes of not less than two thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the provision
of this Act or any other written law, for all or any of the
following matter:—
(a) the classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership payable ;
(b) the procedure to be followed at the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board of Directors,
and the Corporation, the quorum for such meetings
and the exercise and performance of their powers
and duties ;
30
Rules of the
Corporation.
General
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 K. D. M. Chandra Bandara Community  Services
Foundation  (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(c) the appointment, powers, duties and functions  of
the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation ;
(d) the qualification required to become a member of
the Corporation and of the Board of Directors ; and
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation.
(2) Any rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall  be subject to
rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund. All
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gift,
bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grants
for and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited to
the credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the
Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporation,
all such sums of money as may be required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in the exercise,
performance and discharge of its powers, duties and functions
under this Act.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.

<!-- page 6 -->

K. D. M. Chandra Bandara Community  Services
Foundation  (Incorporation)
5
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
take and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase grant,
lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all
such property shall be held by the Corporation for the
purposes of this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation with full power to sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of such membership fees as may be
due form him to the Corporation.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other institute or institutes
having objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which
is or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing
any income or property among its or their members. Such
institution or institutions shall be determined by the Board
at or immediately before the dissolution of the Corporation.
12. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor as  may be determined by the Board.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Accounts and
Audit of the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Limitation of
liability of
members.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 K. D. M. Chandra Bandara Community  Services
Foundation  (Incorporation)
In this section, “Qualified Auditor” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or any other institute established by law,
possesses a certified to practice as an
Accountant issued by  the Council of such
institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or of any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
institute.
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Chairman and a member of the  Board who shall sign their
names on the instrument in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other peron, except such as are mentioned
in this Act and those claiming by, from or under them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
15
20
25
Seal of the
Corporation.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.

<!-- page 8 -->

K. D. M. Chandra Bandara Community  Services
Foundation  (Incorporation)
7
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .