

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. …  1221
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1212
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"972 – 2016 cqks ui 17 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'06'17
No. 1,972 –  FRIDAY ,  JUNE 17, 2016
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th July, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 24th  June, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 W. A. A. G. FonsekA,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1209
Note.— National Research Council of Sri Lanka Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 22, 2016.
Note.— Part III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1971 of 10.06.2016 were not published. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2016
1210
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are rele ased for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2016
1211
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should perso nally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2016
1212
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
 
GAMPAHA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the 
Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
District Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or 
before 18th of July, 2016.
 E. M. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
30th of May, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Gampaha Ja-ela Post of Registrar of  Births and Deaths District Secretary/Additional
   of Ragama Hospital Division  Registrar General, District   
      Secretariat, Gampaha. 
06–448
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrar of Muslim Marriages 
 
KANDY  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule 
hereto.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2016
1213
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Muslim Marriages Registration Divisions and should 
be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
District Registries. 
07. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
18th July, 2016.
 E. M. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
30th May, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Kandy Udunuwara Post of Registrar of  Muslim Marriages  District Secretary/Additional
   of Udunuwara and Yatinuwara    Registrar General, District   
   Division Elpitiya and Gelioya Area  Secretariat, Kandy. 
06–447
––––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  SRI  LANKA  RAILWAYS  
Filling Vacancies in the Post of Legal Officer 
(Grade III) 
APPLICATIONS are called from the qualified citizens 
of Sri Lanka for a vacancy available in the post of Legal 
Officer (Grade III) in the Department of Railways. 
2. Nature of the Duty in the Post. – Counseling in 
respect of the cases, filed by the Departmental Head and 
in the cases where the officers in those sub departments 
become respondents. Liaison the Attorney General 
Department, participation for the cases, participation in 
respect of the human rights complaints, preparation of 
the legal documents such as the drafts and regulations in 
the Department and the public institutions, belong to the 
departmental preview and counseling for the legal actions 
in these departments. 
03. Conditions of Service .– A selected candidate will 
be appointed to the post of Legal Officer on the general 
conditions governing appointments in the Public Service 
and on the terms and conditions set on in the recruitment 
scheme for the post of Legal Officer in the Department of 
Railways or subject to any amendments made or to be made 
hereafter to the minute, all the rules, regulations, orders 
and the scheme enacted by the public service commission 
in respect of the public service, the establishment code in 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Public 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2016
1214
Financial Regulations, other regulations, circulars and 
instructions in the Government and the amendments made 
by time to time with regarding of them. 
 3.1 This post is permanent and pensionable. The 
selected candidate should contribute to the Widows 
and Orphans' Pension Fund. 
 3.2 This appointment will be on probation for a period 
of three years. The First Efficiency Bar Examination 
should be passed within three years from the date 
of appointment and the Second Bar Efficiency 
Examination should be passed within three years 
after promoting to the Grade II and the Third Bar 
Efficiency Examination should be achieved within 
five years after promoting to the Grade I. 
 3.3 The proficiency of the due official language should 
be achieved within 05 years from the date of 
appointment in terms of the provisions of the Public 
Administration Circular 01/2014 and incidental 
circulars. 
04. Age limit.– It should not be less than 21 years of age 
and not more than 45 years of age on the closing date of 
calling applications. 
05. Monthly Salary Scale. – In terms of the Public 
Administration Circular 6/2006, this post is belonging 
to the Salary Group SI-1-2006. The salary scale in that 
salary group is given below Rs. 22,935 -10x645 -8x790 
-17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555. 
06. Educational Qualifications.– It should be obtained a 
degree on Law from a University recognized by the University 
Grant Commission or have an oath of office as an Attorney-
at-Law in the Supreme Court in Sri Lanka and should have 
gained an active professional experience of three (03) years 
after giving the oath of office as Attorney-at-Law before the 
Supreme Court in Sri Lanka. In addition to that, it should 
be obtained at least a Credit pass for English Language in 
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination or G. C. E. (A/L) Examination. 
07. Recruitment Procedure. – Applicants who had 
completed the qualifications mentioned in the Fifth 
paragraph will be recruited through the results of a 
structured interview conducted by a board of interview 
appointed with the recommendation of the Public Service 
Commission and the applicant wh o scored t he highest 
marks will be recruited for the vacancy. The structured 
interview will be conducted as per the following marking 
scheme, recommended by the Public Service Commission. 
 Major areas of awarding marks  Maximum 
 at the interview Marks
Additional Educational Qualifications 20
Additional Professional Qualifications 15
Additional Experience 30
In addition to the required minimum service 
 of 03 years as an Attorney-at-Law under 
 professional qualifications 
 (05 marks for 01 year)
Computer literacy and IT knowledge 15
Proficiency in English Language 15
Skill at the interview 05
08. Method of Application. – Your completed 
application form with a copy of Birth Certificate, a copy of 
National Identity Card and copies of certificates to prove 
educational qualifications, professional qualifications and 
experience should be sent by Registered Post to reach the 
General Manager in Railways, Department of Railways, 
P. O. Box 355, Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10 on or before 
12.07.2016. 
Any application received after the closing date will 
not be accepted. The words “Recruitment for the post of 
Legal Officer in the Department of Railways ” should be 
clearly indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope 
enclosing application. 
* Candidates who are already in Government Service 
should forward their application through their 
Heads of Departments. 
As per the order of Public Service Commission,
 nihal somaweera, 
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Transport and  
 Civil Aviation. 
Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation, 
7th Floor, Sethsiripaya, 
Stage II, 
Battaramulla, 
16th May, 2016. 
06-501

<!-- page 7 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2016
1215
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE
Recruitment to the Post of Assistant Secretary, 
Grade III in the Executive Service Category of 
the Department of Law Commission - 2016
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri 
Lanka with the under mentioned qualifications to recruit 
two (02) suitable persons to fill the vacancies in the post 
of Assistant Secretary (Legal), Grade III in the Executive 
Service Category of the Department of Law Commission. 
Applications forms prepared as per the specimen appended 
at the end of this notice should be sent by Registered Post 
to reach the “Secretary, Ministry of Justice, Superior Courts 
Complex, Colombo 12 ” on or before the closing date 
for calling of applications mentioned below. The words               
“Recruitment to the Post of Assistant Secretary, Grade III 
in the Executive Service Category of the Department of 
Law Commission” should be written on the top left hand 
corner of the envelope containing the application form. 
Closing date of application will be on 18.07.2016.    
Note.– No allegation that an application form or a 
document respecting such form has been lost or 
delayed in the post can be considered. Applicants 
who delay their applications until the last day will 
do so at their own risk. 
01. Method of Recruitment. – Recruitments will be 
made on the order of merit at the structured interview to 
be conducted by an interview board to be appointed by the 
Public Service Commission. Number of recruitments and 
the date on which such recruitments will take effect will be 
decided in accordance with the order of the Public Service 
Commission. 
02. Terms of engagement : 
 (i) This post is permanent.  
 (ii) Selected applicants will be on probation for a 
period of three (03) years and should pass the 
First Efficiency Bar Examination within such 
prescribed period of three (03) years.
 (iii) As per the Public Administration Circular 
No. 01/2014, in order to give effect to official 
language policy, a holder of an appointment will 
be required to acquire within five (05) years a 
working knowledge of the other official language 
than the official langauge in which he enters the 
Public Service. A holder of an appointment who 
enters the Public Service in a medium of language 
other than in a medium of any of the official 
languages will be require to reach within three 
(03) years a requisite standard of proficiency in 
one official language and within five (05) years in 
the other official language. 
 (iv) This appointment will be subjected to the 
Procedural Rules of the Public Service 
Commission, Establishments Code, Financial 
Regulations, Departmental Orders and any other 
regulations and orders issued from time to time 
by the Government. 
03. Salary Scale.– In terms of the Public Administration 
Circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 and Schedule 
II attached thereto, this post which is under SL-1-2006, 
carries a salary of Rs. 47,615-10x1,335 -8x 1,630 - 
17x2,170 - Rs. 110,895 per month. 
04. Qualifications : 
 (i) Educational Qualifications : 
  Should have possessed a LLB Degree from a 
university recognized by the University Grants 
Commission or be an Attorney-at-Law of the 
Supreme Court and pass the G. C. E. (O/L) 
Examination with Credit passes for Sinhala or 
Tamil and English. 
 (ii) Professional Qualifications :
  Should have earned a dynamic professional 
practice with not less than three (03) years upon 
the enrolment as an Attorney-at-Law of the 
Supreme Court.
05. Age limit. – Should not be less than 21 years and 
not more than 35 years of age as at the closing date of 
applications. (The maximum age limit does not apply to 
officers already in the Public Service).   
06. Physical Fitness .– Every applicant should be in 
good mental and physical order to serve in any part of the 
island and to discharge the duties and functions of the post. 
07. Other Qualifications.– Every applicant must furnish 
satisfactory proof to the effect that he/she :
 (i) is a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 (ii) is of excellent moral character, 
 (iii) has a good command of English,
 (iv) has fulfilled the necessary qualifications in every 
respect as at the closing date of applications 
referred to in this notice of calling for applications. 
08. Structured Interview.– Marks will be given by an 
interview board to be appointed by the Public Service 
Commission and the qualifications will be examined at the 
same interview.  

<!-- page 8 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2016
1216
09. Method based on which marks are awarded at the structured interview : 
   Marks that Maximum  
  could be  marks that 
 Spheres in respect of which marks are given awarded could be
   obtained
   
01. General Legal Concepts 
 (i) LL B Degree obtained from a university recognized by the University Grants
  Commission
  – First Class Pass 25 marks 
  – Second Class (Upper Division) Pass 20 marks
  – Second Class (Lower Division) Pass 15 marks
 (ii) First Class Pass at the Final Examinations, Sri Lanka Law College 20 marks 25 marks
 (iii) Second Class Pass at the FInal Examination, Sri Lanka Law College 15 marks
  (Marks are awarded only to the highest standard secured either at the LLB
  or at the Final Examination, Sri Lanka Law College)
02. Proficiency in English Langauge : 
 (i) LL M, LL B, Post Graduate Degree, Post Graduate Diploma, Diploma  10 marks 10 marks
  Course in Law should have been possessed in English Medium. (All question
  papers should have been answered in English Language).
 (ii) A Diploma in English Language (Not less than six months/720 hours)  05 marks   
  obtained from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission 
  or from an institution approved by the Government.
 (iii) A Certificate Course in English Language (Not less than three months/ 03 marks
  360 hours) obtained from a university recognized by the University Grants 
  Commission or from an institution approved by the Government. 
03. Additional Professional Qualifications : 
 (i) LL M obtained from a university recognized by the Univeristy Grants  30 marks
  Commission or from Sri Lanka Law College
 (ii) Post Graduate Diploma in Law (Not less than one year and 5 marks per  20 marks 30 marks
  Diploma Course)
 (iii) Post Graduate Diploma Course in Law (Not less than six months and  10 marks
  03 marks per Diploma Course)
04. Computer Literacy : 
 (i) A Degree with Information Technology as a principal subject obtained from  15 marks
  a recognized institution approved by the University Grants Commission 
 (ii) A Diploma Course in Information Technology (Not less than six months/ 10 marks 15 marks
  720 hours) obtained from a recognized institution approved by the Government 
 (iii) A Certificate Course in Information Technology (Not less than three months) 05 marks
  obtained from a recognized institution approved by the Government

<!-- page 9 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2016
1217
05. Experience : 
  Experience as an Attorney-at-Law in the public or private sector 03 marks 
  (Marks are awarded for the experience excluding the minimum requirement  per year
  of three years of experience as an Attorney-at-Law as is referred to in the 
  notice of calling for applications).
 (03 marks are awarded per year and maximum marks could be awarded are 15)  15 marks
Note.– Professional practice as an Attorney-at-Law must be proved by a 
 certificate to be obtained from a Judicial Officer or a President's Counsel 
 or an Attorney-at-Law whose professional practice should be not less 
 than 20 years. 
 Perfromance at the interview    05 marks
   Total    100 marks
   Marks that Maximum  
  could be  marks that 
 Spheres in respect of which marks are given awarded could be
   Obtained
    
10. (i) Applications should be prepared on a A4 paper 
of 22x29cm in size using both sides to appear 
items from 01 to 14 on the first page and from 
15 onwards on the second page and it should be 
filled by the applicant's own legible handwriting. 
Applications which are not in conformity 
with the specimen appended at the end of this 
notice and are received after the closing date 
of acceptance of applications are liable to be 
rejected without notice. Incomplete applications 
and applications of the applicants who have not 
possessed prescribed minimum requirements 
will also be rejected. Therefore, applicants 
should see that their applications are as per the 
specimen in every respect. Further, it is advisable 
if a copy of the application is retained with the 
applicant. Receipt of applications will not be 
acknowledged. 
Note :
 ( a) No documents or copies of documents 
should be attached to the application 
form. 
 ( b) Applications of candidates who fail to 
produce documents when required to do 
so will not be considered. 
 (ii) Applications from officers in the Public Service/
Provincial Public Service/State Corporations 
must be forwarded through the Heads of the 
Departments/Establishments.
11. Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, 
Circulars that are now exit or may be issued from time to 
time in the future and Servic e Minutes to the Executive 
Service Category of the De partment of Law Commission 
are applicable to this post. 
By the order of the Public Service Commission, 
 Padmasiri Jayamanne, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Justice. 
02nd June, 2016.
 No. .............................
 ( For office use only)
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM 
Public service commission 
ministry of Justice
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF ASSISTANT 
SECRETARY, GRADE III IN THE EXECUTIVE SERVICE 
CATEGORY OF THE DEP ARTMENT OF 
LAW COMMISSION
01. (a) Name with initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
  Name with initials ((In English Block Capitals) :     
 –––––––––.
 ( b) Full Name (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
  Full Name (In English Block Capitals) :–––––––––.
02. Permanent Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
03. Permanent Address (In English Block Capitals) :––––––.
04. Telephone No. :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2016
1218
05. National Identity Card No. :
06. Sex :––––––––––––.
07. Date of Birth : 
 Year :––––––––,  Month :––––––––,  Date :–––––––––.
08. Age as at the closing date of applications :––––––––––.
 Years :–––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Days :––––––––.
09. Nationality :––––––––––––.
10. Whether married or single :––––––––––––.
11. Particulars in respect of the LLB Degree :– 
University :––––––––––––.
 Date on which the Degree was conferred on :–––––––.
 Medium :––––––––––––.
12. Date of enrolment as an Attorney-at-law :––––––––––.
13. Experience as an Attorney-at-Law : Number of years 
:––––––––––––.
14. Results of the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :– 
Index No. :––––––––––.     Year :––––––––––.
 Pass obtained for Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––––.
 Pass obtained for English :––––––––––––.
15. Qualifications as per the Item 09 of the notice of calling 
for applications : 
 (i) ..........................................................
 (ii) ..........................................................
 (iii) ..........................................................
 (iv) ..........................................................
 (v) ..........................................................
 (vi) ..........................................................
 (vii) ..........................................................
 (viii) ..........................................................
16. Languages proficiency (Mark P in the relevant box) : 
  Very Good Good Ordinary  Weak
Sinhala
Tamil
English 
Candidate's Declaration 
I, ......................................................................... declare 
that the particulars furnished by me in this application are 
true and correct. I certify that I have not been subject to 
any form of disciplinary action including dismissal from 
the service or retirement for general inefficiency as a 
merciful alternative to dismissal and I have not vacated 
the post previously. I am also aware that, if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am 
liable to disqualification, if detected before selection 
and to dismissal without compensation, if detected after 
appointment. 
 ––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Applicant. 
Date  :–––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department 
I do hereby inform  that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................., 
is serving in this Ministry/Department in the Public 
Service/Provincial Public Service as .............................. on 
permanent/temporary/casual basis and that he/she can be/
cannot be released, if selected for this post. 
 –––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Secretary to the Ministry/
 Head of the Department and official seal. 
Date :–––––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :–––––––––––––.
06–671
––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY OF HOUSING AND 
CONSTRUCTION
Urban Settlement Development Authority
APPLICATIONS are invited from suitable applicants for 
the following posts in the Urban Settlement Development 
Authority functioning under the Ministry of Housing and 
Construction.
General conditions of recruitment :
Every candidate should be -
 ( a) A citizen of Sri Lanka,
 ( b)  Should be of a physical and mental fitness 
appropriate to perform well the duties assigned 
to the post, as well as to serve in any part of the 
island,
 ( c) Should be of an excellent character.
Director (Engineering) Number of vacancies – 01
Educational qualifications :
 ( a) A Masters Degree in civil engineering subjects 
from a university recognized by the University 
Grants Commission.
or

<!-- page 11 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2016
1219
 ( b) Associate membership of the Institute of Chartered 
Engineers 
  together with
 ( c)  After obtaining the degree, at least 10 years 
experience at the managerial level in the 
government, in a government institution or a 
government approved private establishment.
Age – Not less than 35 or more than 55 
years of age.
Salary scale  – HM 1-1-2006 - Rs. 38,530 -15 x 
1,100 - Rs. 55,030
Allowances  – All allowances of approved by the 
government
Director  (Planning and MIS)    Number of vacancies – 01
Educational qualifications :
 ( a) Degree in Management and Information 
Technology, Statistics and Computer Science  
obtained from a university recognized by the 
University Grants Commision,
along with
 ( b) After obtaining the degree, at least 15 years 
experience at the managerial level in  the 
government, in a government institution or a 
government approved private establishment,. 
Age  - Not less than 35 or more than 55 
years of age.
Salary scale - HM 1-1-2006 - Rs, 38,530 -15 x 
1,100 - Rs. 55,030
Allowances  - All allowances of approved by the 
government
Assistant Director (Engineering) 
  Number of vacancies – 01
Educational qualifications :
 ( a) Degree in Civil Engineering obtained from a 
university recognized by the  University Grants 
Commision,
 and / or
 ( b) After obtaining the degree/membership in a 
professional body, at least 03 years  experience 
in the engineering field in the government, in a 
government institution or a government approved 
private establishment, 
Age  - Not less than 25 or more than 45 
years of age.
Salary scale - MM 1-1-2006 - Rs. 25,640 -3 x 665- 
7 x735-15 x 925 - Rs. 46,655
Allowances  - All allowances of approved by the 
government
Administrative Officer Number of vacancies – 01
Educational qualifications :
 ( a) Degree in any subject obtained from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commision,
along with
 ( b) At least 01 years experience in Human Resources 
Management in the government, in a government 
institution or a government approved private 
establishment. 
Age  - Not less than 25 or more than 45 
years of age.
Salary scale - JM 1-1-2006 A - Rs. 20,525-10 x365-    
18 x550 - Rs. 34,075
Allowances  - All allowances of approved by the 
government
Technical Officer Number of vacancies – 01
Educational qualifications :
 ( a) Should obtain a B. Sc. Eng. (civil)/Quantity Survey/
Architecture degree from a recognized University 
by University Grants Commission ; 
And
 ( b) Minimum of 1 year working experience in technical 
side in government service or government institute 
or in a government recognized private institute.  
Age  - Not less than 25 or more than 45 
years of age.
Salary scale - JM 1-1-2006 A - Rs. 20,525-10 x365-    
18 x550 - Rs. 34,075
Allowances  - All allowances of approved by the 
government
Systems Analyst Number of vacancies – 01
Educational qualifications :
 ( a) Degree in Computer Science, Statistics/Information 
Technology/Computing and Management and Town 
and Country Planning obtained from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission.
Age  - Not less than 22 or more than 35 
years of age.
Salary scale - MA 5 -1-2006A - Rs. 16,890-10x320 
-15x365 -11x450 - 30,515
Allowances  - All allowances of approved by the 
government

<!-- page 12 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2016
1220
Data Planning Assistant Number of vacancies – 01
Educational qualifications :
 ( a) Degree in Computer Science, Statistics/Information 
Technology/Computing and Management and Town 
and Country Planning obtained from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission.
Age  - Not less than 22 or more than 35 
years of age.
Salary scale  - MA 5 -1-2006A - Rs. 16,890- 10x320 
-15x365 -11x450 - Rs. 30,515
Allowances  - All allowances of approved by the 
government
Community Development Assistant  
  Number of vacancies – 03
Educational qualifications :
 ( a) Degree in any subject obtained from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission.
  Other qualifications. – Possession of a two year 
full time diploma in professional social work or a 
diploma in agriculture from a government approved 
institution/or a diploma in the subject of sociology.
Age  - Not less than 22 or more than 35 
years of age.
Salary scale  - MA 3 - 2006A - Rs. 15,600-10x215-
4x240-15x320-7x360- Rs. 26,030
Allowances  - All allowances of approved by the 
government
Legal Assistant Number of vacancies – 01
Educational qualifications :
 ( a) Degree with any legal subject obtained from a 
university recognized by the University Grants 
Commission.
Age  - Not less than 22 or more than 35 
years of age. 
Salary scale - MA 3 - 2006A - Rs. 15,600-10x215-
4x240-15x320-7x360 - Rs. 26,030
Allowances  - All allowances of approved by the 
government
Technical Assistant  Number of vacancies – 01
Educational qualifications :
 ( a) A pass in the General Certificate of Education 
Ordinary Level in 06 subjects, including Language 
or Literature, Mathematics and Science ;
  and
  Professional skills :
 ( b) One of the following qualifications of a level not 
less than the level of (NVQ) 05, as laid down by the 
Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission :
 (i) National Diploma in Technology (Civil 
Engineering) ; or
 (ii) National Higher Diploma (Engineering) 
 (iii) National Technical Certificate (Engineering/
Quantity Surveying) or a similar certificate 
in Civil Engineering/Quantity Surveying 
from a technical institute approved by the 
government.
Age  - Not less than 18 or more than 35 years of 
age. 
Salary scale - MA 2.1-2006A - Rs. 14,610-10x145-
7x170-4x240-20x320- Rs. 24,610
Allowances  - All allowances of approved by the 
government
Social Development Assistant 
    Number of vacancies – 01
Educational qualifications :
 ( a) A pass in the  General Certificate of Education 
Ordinary Level in 06 subjects in one sitting with 
04 credit passes including Sinhala/Tamil Language, 
Mathematics and English Language obtained at not 
more than two sittings.
  along with
 ( b) A pass in t he General Certificate of Education 
(Advanced Level) in 04 subjects under the old 
syllabus or in 03 subjects under the new syllabus 
(except the General Common Test), obtained at one 
sitting.
  along with
 ( c) A pass in the two y ear full time diploma course in 
professional social work awarded by the National 
Institute of Social Development
Age  - Not less than 18 or more than 30 
years of age. 
Salary scale  - MA1.1-2006A – Rs. 13,450-10x145-
7x170-4x240-20x320- Rs. 23,450
Allowances  - All allowances of approved by the 
government
Applicants of t hose who are already in service in 
Government Departments, Government Corporations and 
Statutory Boards should be forwarded through the heads 
of their institutions. Applications, including complete bio 
data of the applicants, should be forwarded by registered 
post to reach the address below on or before 01.07.2016. 
(Within 14 days)
Please Note.– The salary particular details included 
here is to be corrected under the Management 
Service Circular No. 02/2016.
 Director General,
 Urban Settlement Development  
 Authority.
09th Floor,
Sethsiripaya, Battaramulla,
Telephone No. : 011-2871305  Fax 011-2884131
Email – admnusda@gmail.com
06–625

<!-- page 13 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2016
1221
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Admission of Teachers Who have passed the 
General Arts Qualifying (External) Examination 
having offered English as a subject or First 
Examination in Bachelor o f Science (External) 
Degree Programme  Academic Year 2015 / 2016
APPLICATIONS are entertained from teachers in 
Government and Government approved Private schools, 
who have passed the General Arts Qualifying (External) 
Examination (with English as a subject) and the first 
Examination of Bachelor of Science (External) Degree 
Programme for admission to universities of Sri Lanka for 
studying the following courses during the academic year 
2015 / 2016.
 (i) Bachelor of Arts Degree Programme with 
English as a Subject.
 (ii) Bachelor of Science Degree Programme
02. For the purpose, the applicants should possess the 
qualifications as follows:
 (i) Should have passed the General Arts Qualifying 
(External) Examination (with English as a 
subject) and the first Examination of Bachelor 
of Science (External) Degree Programme held 
in or after year 2011.
  (A copy of the result sheet should be attached to 
the application)
 (ii) Should have completed five years service as a 
teacher on the last date of receiving applications 
should be confirmed in the post.
 (iii) Should not have been registered already 
to follow courses in a Teachers’ Training 
College, A National College of Education, and 
A University or in the National Institute of 
Education.
 (iv) Selection for admission will be based on the 
total number of marks obtained in the General 
Arts Qualifying Examination (External) or first 
Examination of Bachelor of Science (External) 
Degree Programme and the marks obtained for 
the relevant subject.
  In addition to this, the applicants qualified for 
General science degree will be subjected to an 
oral test conducted by the relevant university 
and the applicants qualified for Arts degree 
will be interviewed by the University Grants 
Commission.
 (v) Only teachers who are entitled to study leave 
should forward their Applications, as study 
leave has to be granted to them if they are 
selected to follow the course.
03. Claims for approval of full pay study leave will be 
examined at the interview.
04. The Ministry is not bound with the responsibility to 
provide graduate teaching appointments after the Award of 
the Degrees.
05. In the case of applicants forwarded by teachers 
in government approved private schools, the Principal / 
Manager of the school should state there in whether full 
pay study leave for the relevant teacher could be allowed 
/ not allowed.
06. Applications of teachers in Government Schools 
should be certified by the Principal, Zonal Director and 
the Provincial Director of Education and those of teachers 
in government approved private schools by the Principal / 
Manager of the relevant schools.
All applications should be prepared in accordance 
with the specimen form appearing herewith and forward 
them in two copies under registered post to the Secretary, 
Ministry of Education" “Isurupaya” , Battaramulla, before 
15.07.2016, the words “Applications for Admission to 
Universities in Sri Lanka 2015 /2016 (For Teachers)" 
should be clearly written on the left hand top corner of the 
envelope enclosing the application.
 W. M. bandusena,
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Education.
For Official use only
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
ministry of education 
admission of teachers who ha ve Passed the general 
arts qualifying (external) examination ha ving offered 
english as a subJect or first examination in bachelor of 
science (external) degree Programme academic 
year 2015/2016
01. (i) Name with initials :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Name in full :––––––––––––.
02. Sex :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2016
1222
03. (i) Post :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Grade :––––––––––––.
 
04. Address :
  (i)  Official :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Private :––––––––––––.
05. Telephone :   
 (i) Residence :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Mobile  :––––––––––––.
06. E-mail :––––––––––––.
07. Present place of work :
 (i) School :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Zone :––––––––––––.
 (iii) District :––––––––––––.
 (iv) Province :––––––––––––.
08.  (i) Date of first appointment :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Date of confirmation :––––––––––––.
 (iii) Period of Service (from the date of appointment 
to the closing date of application)
         Days :––––––. Months :––––––. Years :–––––––.
09. Registration Number as a Teacher :––––––––––––.
10.  (i) Date of Birth : 
        Date :–––––––. Month :–––––––. Year :–––––––. 
 (ii) Age (as at closing date of application) :
  Days :––––––. Months :––––––. Years :–––––––.
11. Details of qualifying Examination (A certified copy of 
the results sheet issued by the University should be 
attached)
 (i) Examination :––––––––––––. 
 (ii) University:––––––––––––.   
 (iii) Results :
 Subject Year Qualified Marks Grades
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
12. Name of the Degree Programme and subjects you wish 
to follow: 
 (i) Name of the Degree :––––––––––––. 
 (ii) Subjects: 
  1. .............................
  2. .............................
  3. .............................
13. If selected, indicate the Universities you wish to admit 
according to your order of preference : 
 1. ………………………… 
 2. ………………………… 
 3. ………………………… 
 4. ………………………… 
14. State whether you have already registered to follow 
another course in any Teachers’ Training College, 
College of Education, University or National Institute 
of Education :––––––––––––.
 If “Yes” provide details :––––––––––––.
 
 I certify that the above particulars are true and correct 
to the best of my knowledge.
  –––––––––––––––, 
  Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.              
I certify that Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms. .…...........………
is serving as a ……………………………….......…….. 
(Post/Grade) at ………………………………… (Name 
of the school) with effect from ……………………….and 
his/her last salary was paid from this school. He/She can 
be/ cannot be released to follow the above course of study. 
I approve / do not approve the study leave required for 
the applicant (If do not recommend study leave, please 
give reasons) 
  ...........................................................................................
  ...........................................................................................
  ...........................................................................................
Recommended / Not Recommended.
  ––––––––––––––,
  The Principal.
  (Signature and the Official Seal)
 Date :––––––––––––.       
Address :––––––––––––.
 Recommended / Not Recommended.
  –––––––––––––,
  Zonal Director.
  (Signature and the Official Seal)
 Date :––––––––––––.       
Address :––––––––––––.
 Recommended / Not Recommended. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Provincial Director
  (Signature and the Official Seal)
 Date :––––––––––––.       
Address :––––––––––––.
06–609

<!-- page 15 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2016
1223
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION 
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Posts which have fallen Vacant in Grade III of 
Sri Lanka Scientific Service - 2015
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the open competitive examination which 
is due to be held for filling the posts in Grade III of Sri Lanka Scientific Service which have fallen vacant in the following 
Departments/Ministries. Applications prepared in line with the specimen application indicated at the end of this notification 
should be sent by registered post on or before the date mentioned below to reach Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch, Department of Examination Sri Lanka, P. O. Box 1503, Colombo. "Open 
Competitive Examination for recruitment to Grade III of Sri Lanka Scientific Service" should be clearly indicated on the 
top left corner of the envelope. Further, the name of the examination should be indicated in English in Sinhala and Tamil 
applications along with Sinhala or Tamil languages. 
 Serial Department/Ministry to which Designation Number of Code
 No. the vacated post belongs  Vacancies Number
1. Department of Export Agriculture Assistant Director (Research) 14 101
  Assistant Director (Development) 09 102
2. Department of Meteorology Meteorologist  01 201
3. Ministry of Science, Technology and Research Assistant Director (Research) 01 301
4. Department of National Botanical Gardens Assistant Director 11 401
5. Department of Health Services Physicist 15 501
(a) Closing date of the applications is 15.07.2016. 
Note.– No complaint that an application has been lost or delayed in post shall be considered. The loss that may be 
caused by delaying the applications until the closing date of applications shall be borne by the applicants 
themselves. 
* When the applicants a pply for more than one post mentioned above, separate applications should not be 
sent for each post applied for and the post applied should be indicated in the application on the order of 
preference as given in this notification. The maximum number of posts that can be applied by a candidate 
is 5 and the posts applied exceeding the number shall not be considered. Further, once the preference of the 
candidate is expressed, he/she shall not be allowed to change the order of preference of the posts applied 
subsequently. 
Example.– For example, a candidate who wishes to apply for the vacancies of the post of Assistant Director 
(Research) at the Ministry of Science, Technology and Research as the first option, Assistant Director (Research) at 
the Department of Export Agriculture as the second option and Meteorologist at the Department of Meteorology as the 
third option, should indicate the relevant Code Numbers in the "Code Number" Column of the application in Table 02 as 
follows. 
 Serial Priority Department Post Code 
 Number of option   Number
1. 1st option Ministry of Science, Technology Assistant Director (Research) 3 0 1
   and Research
2. 2nd option Department of Export Agriculture Assistant Director (Research) 1 0 1
3. 3rd option Department of Meteorology Meteorologist 2 0 1
4. 4th option 
5. 5th option

<!-- page 16 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2016
1224
1. Method of Recruitment to the Service .– Recruitments shall be made on the results of a written examination 
and a general interview shall be conducted for the verification of qualifications. Recruitments shall be made to the posts 
which have fallen vacant on the order of marks of the examination and on the priority of option of the posts mentioned 
in the application. 
No. of appointments to be made and the effective date of the appointment shall be determined on the orders of 
the Public Services Commission. 
2. Conditions for engagement in service : 
 (i) This post shall be permanent and pensionable. You shall subject to the policy decisions taken by the 
government on Widows and Orphans/Widowers and Orphans Pension. 
 (ii) The officers appointed to this post shall be subjected to a probation period of three (3) years and the 
officers are required to pass the first efficiency bar within the said three (3) years. 
 (iii) They are required to achieve the proficiency in other official language as per provisions in Public 
Administration Circular No. 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 and consequent circulars within 5 years. 
Officers who have joined the service in a language medium other than an official language shall 
achieve the proficiency in one official language within the probation period and in the other official 
language within five (05) years. 
 (iv) This appointment shall be subjected to the Procedural Rules of Public Service Commission and 
conditions stipulated in Sri Lanka Scientific Service Minute published by the Gazette Notification 
No. 1877/27 dated 28th August 2014. 
3. Salary Scale. – As per Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 a monthly salary scale of SL 1-2006,         
Rs. 47,615 -10x1,335 -8x1,630 -17x2,170 - Rs. 110,895 is entitled to this post. 
4. Educational Qualifications : 
 Serial Department Profession Educational and Other Qualifications
 No. 
1. Department of Export I. Assistant Director (a) Having obtained a Special Degree in Agriculture, 
  Agriculture  (Research)  Botany, Chemistry, Biology or Biometry with a class
      from a university recognized by the University Grants 
      Commission or a degree awarding institution recognized 
      by the University Grants Commission ; 
      or
     (b) Having obtained a General Degree with a class offering 
      one of the following subjects viz. Agriculture, Botany, 
      Chemistry, Biology or Biometry ;
      or
     (c) Having obtained a BSc. General Degree and a Post 
      Graduate Degree in one of the following subjects 
      Agriculture, Botany, Chemistry, Biology or Biometry.
   II. Assistant Director (a) Having obtained a Special Degree in Agriculture, 
    (Development)  Botany, Chemistry, Biology or Biometry with a class
      from a univeristy recognized by the University Grants
      Commission or a degree awarding institution 
      recognized by the University Grants Commission ; 
      or
     (b) Having obtained a general degree with a class offering 
      one of the following subjects viz. Agriculture, Botany, 
      Chemistry, Biology or Biometry ;
      or

<!-- page 17 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2016
1225
 Serial Department Profession Educational and Other Qualifications
 No.
     (c) Having obtained a BSc. general degree and a Post 
      Graduate Degree in Agricluture, Botany, Chemistry, 
      Biology or Biometry
2. Department of  I. Meteorologist (a) Having obtained a special degree in Physics or 
  Meteorology    Mathematics with a class from a university recognized 
      by the University Grants Commission ;
      or
     (b) Having obtained a BSc. Degree with Physics and 
      Mathematics with at least a Second Class (Upper 
      Division) from a university recognized by the 
      University Grants Commission ;
      or
     (c) Having obtained a BSc. Degree with Physics and/or 
      Mathematics with at least a Second Class (Lower 
      Division) from a university recognized by the 
      University Grants Commission and Post Graduate 
      Degree in Meteorology from a recognized university. 
     Note.– If the Special Degree mentioned above has been 
      obtained in Mathematics, the candidate should have 
      passed Physics at the General Aptitude Test or any 
      other test of higher level. 
3. Ministry of Science, I. Assistant Director From a university recognized by the University Grants
  Technology and   (Research) Commission or from a Degree Awarding Institution 
  Research   recognized by the University Grants Commission 
     (a) Having obtained a BSc. Special Degree in Chemistry 
      or Physics with a class ; or
     (b) Having obtained a BSc. General Degree with 
      Chemistry or Physics with a class
     (c) Having obtained having obtained a BSc. General 
      Degree with Chemistry or Physics and a Post Graduate
      Degree in one of the above subjects.
4. Department of National I. Assistant Director (a) Having obtained a special four year degree in Botany
  Botanical Gardens    or Agriculture with a first or second class from a 
      university recognized by the University Grants  
      Commission or a degree awarding institution 
      recognized by the University Grants Commission ; 
      or
     (b) Having obtained a Special Degree in Botany or   
     Agriculture with a general pass from a university   
     recognized by the University Grants Commission and 
      a Post Graduate Degree with at least two years duration 
      with a thesis in Ecology, Forestry, Plant Taxonomy, 
      Bio Diversity and Conservation or Horticulture or 
      landscaping ; 
      or
     (c) Having obtained a General Degree in Botany or 
      Agriculture from a university recognized by the 
      University Grants Commission and a Post Graduate 
      Degree with at least two years duration with a thesis in 
      Ecology, Forestry. 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2016
1226
5. Department of  I. Physicist (a) Having obtained an Honors (Special) Degree in Physics
  Health Services    from a recognized university ; 
      or
     (b) Having obtained a Special Degree in Physics or a 
      General BSc. Degree with five years' experience as a 
      Radiologist in 
5. Age limit.– Age shall not be less than 22 years and not more than 32 years as at the closing date of applications.
6. Physical Fitness.– Every candidate shall be physically and mentally fit to perform the duties of the post and to 
serve in any  part of Sri Lanka.
7. Other qualifications :
 (i)  Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 (ii)  Shall be of excellent moral character
 (iii)  Shall not be a person who is ordained in any religious order 
 (iv)  Shall have not sat for the open competitive examination of Sri Lanka Scientific Service more than 
twice.
 (v)  Shall have fulfilled all the required qualifications for recruitment to the post in every aspect as at the 
closing date mentioned in the Gazette.
8. 8.1 Written Examination :
  8.1.1 This examination shall be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
 Question Paper  Duration  Total Marks  Cut - off marks
1. Intelligent Test  01 Hour  100  40
2. General Question paper 03 Hours 100  40
  8.1.2. Syllabus :
 Name of the question paper  Syllabus
 1. Intelligent Test  This question paper consists of 50 multiple choice questions to measure the ability of 
candidate on critical reasoning, general intelligence and marking  decision.
 2. General Question paper  A question paper to test the general knowledge on matters relating to political, social, 
cultural and economic environment of Sri Lanka, the matters important  in national 
and international levels and the knowledge on national and international scientific 
and technical development. The question paper shall  consist of two parts and the first 
part shall consist of question for short  answers. The second part shall consist of semi 
structured  questions. Candidates are required to answer 5 questions out of 8. Number 
of marks allocated is 75.
8.2  Method of Appointment.– Recruitments shall be made on the order of the merit of the marks secured 
by the candidates who have secured 40% marks or above for every question paper of the written 
examination. Candidates who have secured 40% or above shall be called for an interview and the 
qualifications will be verified by an interview board approved by the Public Service Commission. No 
marks shall be allocated for the interview. 
 Serial Department Profession Educational and Other Qualifications
 No.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2016
1227
9. Conditions of the Examination :
 (i) Examination shall be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English media. Candidates shall sit for examination 
in a language of their preference. They shall answer all the question papers in one and the same language 
selected  by them. The medium they applied for is not allowed to change subsequently. Every candidate 
shall sit for all the question papers.
 (ii) The examination fee is Rs. 1,000.00. It shall be paid at any post office to be credited to Revenue Head 
2003-02- 13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt obtained in the name of the 
applicant shall be  affixed by one edge of the receipt in the relevant cage so as not to be detached. It is 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate.
 (iii) Under no circumstance the examination fee is refundable.
 (iv) This examination shall be held in October the date of examination shall be informed in due course.
 (v) Incomplete applications shall be rejected without notice.
 Note : Candidates shall not be permitted to enter the examination hall without the admission card. Only the 
admission cards on which the signature has been attested shall be submitted to the supervisor of the  
examination on the first day of the examination.
  The issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the 
requisite  qualifications to sit the examination.
 (vi) Application should be prepared on paper of size 21 - 29.7 cm (A - 4) and the cages up to 3.8 should 
appear on  the first page and the other cages should appear on the second page and the rest. The relevant 
particulars shall be furnished clearly by the candidates themselves. Applications that do not comply 
with the specimen and that are not completed in every aspect shall be rejected without notice. It is 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the application with candidate. It is the responsibility of the candidate 
to make sure that the application form perfected by him / her complies with the specimen given in the 
examination notice as otherwise the application may be rejected. Applications should be prepared in 
accordance with the specimen application.
Note : A specimen application prepared correctly for your convenience can be downloaded from the official 
website of the Ministry of Public Administration and Management www.pubad.gov.lk.
 (vii) Receipt of applications shall not be acknowledged. A notice shall be published in the newspapers as soon 
as admission cards are issued to applicants. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days 
of such an advertisement, steps shall be taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the manner 
specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of calling 
the Department of Examinations: i.e. a certified photocopy of the application form and the receipt kept 
at your possession in case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to 
which the admission cards should be sent.
 (viii) The Commissioner General of Examinations shall reserve the power to postpone or cancel the 
examination on the approval of the Public Service Commission.
 (ix) Candidates are subjected to rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations 
on conducting the examination. They are liable to be subjected to a punishment imposed by him / her for 
breach of these rules.
 (x) Identity of Candidate.- A candidate shall be required to prove his identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor. For this purpose, any of the following documents shall be accepted :–
 (i)  National identity card issued by  the Department of Registration of persons :
 (ii)  A valid passport.
 (iii)  Valid driving license.
N.B: (a)  No document or a copy of the same should be attached to the application.
 
 ( b)  The applications of the candidates who are unable to submit relevant documents whenever they are  
requested shall not be considered.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2016
1228
Officers who are serving in Public Service / Provincial Public Service, Government Corporations should send 
their applications through the respective Head of the Department / Institution. It is compulsory for every applicant to get 
his/ her signature attested before appearing for the examination. An applicant who is appearing for the examination through 
an institution should get his/ her signature attested by the Head of the Institution where he serves. Other applicants should 
get their signature attested by a Principal of a Government School/ retired principal, Grama Niladari of the Division, 
Justice of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces, 
an Officer in Staff Grade holding a permanent post in public or provincial service whose annual consolidated salary is 
more than Rs. 240,360 /- or a Chief incumbent of a Buddhist temple or Chief Prelate or other clergy holding considerable 
position as the Chief Priest of a religious place.
On the order of Public Service Commission.
 J. dadallage
 Secretary
 Ministry of Public Administration and Management.
 
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
YS% ,xld úoHd;aul fiajfha III fY%a‚hg n|jd.ekSu i|yd jk újD; ;r. úNd.h ^2015&
oPen comPetitive examination for recruitment to class iii of sri lanka scientific service (2015)
(For office use only)
1.0  Medium :- Language medium of examination :
 Sinhala - 2    Tamil - 3    English - 4  (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 * Application should be perfected in the language medium of examination.
2.0  Post/ Posts applied for :
  Serial No.  Priority of option  Department  Post  Code Number
1.  1st option
2.  2nd option
3.  3rd option
4.  4th option
5.  5th option
3.0  Personal Information :
  3.1  Name in full (In English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
   (Example : HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
  3.2  Name with initials at the end (In English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
   (Example :- GUNAWARDHANA, H.M.S.K.)
  3.3  Name in Full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
  3.4  Permanent address in English block capitals :––––––––––––.
   (admission card will be posted to this address)
  3.5  Postal city :––––––––––––.
  3.6  Permanent address (Sinhala/ Tamil) :––––––––––––.
  3.7  National identity card No. :

<!-- page 21 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2016
1229
  3.8  Sex :- Male - 0      Female - 1   (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  3.9  Date of Birth :-  Year : Month :  Date :
  3.10  Age as at the closing date of applications :– Years : Months : Days :
  3.11  Ethnic group :- Sinhala - 1     Tamil - 2     I. Tamil - 3     Muslim - 4     Other - 5
   (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  3.12  Civil status :- Married - 1 Unmarried - 2   (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  3.13  Telephone No. :-  Mobile :
      Residence :
  3.14  E-mail address :––––––––––––.
4.0 Qualifications :-
  4.1  Date of graduation :-
   (Please refer carefully section 11(iv) of this notification to verify whether you have possessed these 
qualifications)
 Examination/ Degree  Class  Year  Subjects  University/ Institution
5.0 Paste the receipt here securely :-
It would be advisable to keep a photocopy with the candidate.
Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
Post Office to which the fee has been paid :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
6.0 If you have been convicted by any criminal offence in a court of law, indicate the particulars regarding the offence and 
the punishment imposed :––––––––––––.
7.0 Declaration of the candidate :
I declare that information given in this form is true to the best of my knowledge and belief and that I have 
affixed the receipt No.………Dated……….being the payment of the examination fee. I also agree to be bound by the 
rules governing the examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior to, during or after the 
examination, if it is found that I am ineligible according to the regulations of this examination. Further, if it is found that 
any particular in this notification is false or incorrect, I am liable to be dismissed from service without any compensation. 
Further, I agree to be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by Commissioner - General of Examinations with regard 
to conducting of the exam and issuing results.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2016
1230
8.0 Attestation of the applicant's signature (As per 13(d) of the Gazette notification) :
I hereby certify that…………(Full Name) who submits this application is known to me personally, that he/ she 
has paid the prescribed examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt herein. He/ She placed his/ her signature in my 
presence on……
     
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Officer attesting the Signature.
Date :––––––––––––.
Full name of the officer attesting the signature  :––––––––––––.
Designation  :––––––––––––.
Address  :––––––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the Official Stamp)
9.0 Attestation of the Head of the Institution :
(Only for applicants who are in public service/ provincial public service/ state corporations)
Mr./Mrs./Miss…………………,who submits this application, is serving as a…………… at this Ministry/ 
Department/ Institution and his/ her application is recommended and submitted herewith. Necessary arrangements can be 
made to release him/ her from the service of this institution, if selected for this post.
     
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the Institution.
Name  :––––––––––––.
Designation  :––––––––––––.
Date  :––––––––––––.
(Official Stamp)  
06–585
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.