

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.01.2015
39
39
wxl 1"897 - 2015 ckjdß ui 09 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'01'09
No. 1,897 – FRIDAY , JANUARY 09, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 41
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 30th January, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 16th
January, 2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— Parts III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,896 of 02.01.2015 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.01.2015
40
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.01.2015
41
Posts – Vacant
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skills Development
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF LEGAL OFFICER
(EXECUTIVE CATEGORY OF GRADE III)
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens who have
following qualifications, to the post of Legal Officer of the Ministry
of Youth Affairs and Skills Development.
01. Recruitment Procedure.– Applicants, who got highest marks
on the results of structured interview, held by the interview board
appointed by the Public Service Commission, out of the applicants
who fulfilled the qualifications, mentioned in the notification, will be
recruited for the number of vacancies available. In this case, structured
interview will be held in accordance with the marking scheme,
(mentioned under No. 06) which was approved by the Public Service
Commission.
The effective date of this appointment would be decided on the
order of the Pubilc Service Commission.
02. Qualifications :
(i) Educational and Vocational Qualifications.– Have obtained
LLB Degree from a university recognized by the University
Grant Commission or have sworn in the Supreme Court as
a Lawyer.
(ii) Experience .– Not less than three (03) year active
proffessional experience, after sowrn in the Supreme Court
as a Lawyer.
(iii) Physical Fitness.– Every candidates shall have sufficient
physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri Lanka
and discharge the duties of the post.
(iv) Other :
* Proffecincy in Tamil and English Language is an additional
qualifications.
* Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
* Must have excellent moral character.
* All qualifications, needed to recruit to this post, should
have been fulfilled as at the closing date of applications.
03. Conditions of employment and servie conditions :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Should contribute
to the Widows/Widowers and Orphans Pension Scheme.
(ii) Appointment will be subjected to a probation period of
three (03) year. As mentioned in the scheme of recruitment,
1st Efficiency Bar Examination should be fulfilled within
03 years from the appointment to class III of the post of
legal officer.
(iii) In terms of Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007
and circulars, incidental thereto, profficiency in other official
language, in excess to the language, recruited to the service,
must be obtained, within 05 years from the appointment
and the officers who recruited by the language other than
official language should obtain prescribed official language
profficiency within the period of probation.
(iv) This appointment is subjected to procedural rules of Public
Service Commission, the Establishments Code of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial
Regulations and Departmental other orders.
04. Age Limit.– Should not be less than 21 years and not more
than 45 years of the age on the closing date of applications.
05. Salary Scale.– Salary Scale of Rs. 22,935- 10x645 -8x790 -
17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 is entitle for this post. (Salary segment SL-1-
2006 of Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 dated
25.04.2006).
06. Following marking scheme will be based for the structured
interview :
Subject Maximum
Marks
01. 1. Additional Educational Qualifications 20
Degree on LLB obtained from an
recognised University :
– For pass of first class 20
– For a upper pass of second class 15
– For a lower pass of second class 10
For a pass of first class in final year of 15
Law College
For a pass of second class in final year of 10
Law College
Note.– Only 10 marks should be given if it
passed the final exam in pass with honour
before the year 1997.
(Marks will be given only to the maximum
qualifications - Marks should be given only
the degree or only one qualification of Law
College)
02. Additional Professional Qualifications : 15
Post graduate degree not less than 01 year,
in relevant field given by an accepted
institution or post diploma course in Law
(05 marks each for one Diploma)

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.01.2015
42
Subject Maximum
Marks
Diploma course not less than 06 months
given by the recognised institution in
relevant field
(03 marks for each diploma)
Certificate course not less than 03 months
given by the recognised institution in
relevant field
(02 marks for each diploma)
03. Additional Experience 30
Experience as a Attorney-at-Law in Public or
Private Sector - more than 06 months and
less than one year - 02 marks
05 marks each for one year and maximum
30 marks
(Except the 03 year service period
performed the duty as a lawyer to
receive the basic qualification)
(Additional experience should be proven
through a certificate received by an
Attorney-at-Law who completed not less
than 20 year service or Attorney-at-Law
to the President or a Judge)
04. Computer Literacy 15
Follow the Information Technology as a 15
main subject for a degree in a university
recognised by the University Grant
Commission
Diploma course in Information Technology 10
not less than one year in a recognised
Institution of the Government or 1500
hours
Certificate course in Information Technology
in a recognised Institution of the
government
– 06 months/720 hours 07
– 03 months/360 hours 05
05. Proficiency in English 15
Post Degree/Degree/Post Degree in Law/ 15
Degree in Law followed in English Medium
(Should provide answers in English
medium to all the question papers in
relevant examinations)
Diploma course in English Language in a 10
university recognised by the University
Grant Commission or an institution
recognised by the government
(01 year or 1500 hours)
Subject Maximum
Marks
Certificate course in English Language in a
university recognised by the University
Grant Commission or an institution
recognised by the government
– 06 months/720 hours 07
– 03 months/360 hours 05
06. Skills in the interview 05
Total 100
07. Identity of the Candidates .– Only applicants, who have
submitted completed applications will be called for structured
interview. Original copies of certificates and properly certified copies
should be submitted, in the interview. Following identity cards will
be accepted to certify the identity of his/her, in the interview :
(i) Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
Registration of persons.
(ii) A valid pass port.
08. Method of Application :
(i) Applications, should be sent under registered cover to reach
the "Secretary, Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skills
Development, No. 354/2, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo
05 on or before 16.02.2015. Applications, received after
that date will be rejected.
(ii) A specimen application is indicated at the end of this
notification, Applicants should prepare their application,
in their own handwriting, in A4 size paper with No. 01 to
07 appearing in 1st page, No. 08 to 11 appearing in 2nd
page and the rest in next pages.
(iii) The envelope enclosing the application should be marked
"Application for the post of legal officer" on the top left
hand corner.
(iv) Signature of candidate should be attested by a Principal of
a Government school/A justice of a peace/Commissioner of
Oaths/Attorny-at-Law/Notary Public, Commissioned
Officer in the Armed Force or an officer holding a permanent
post in the Government with monthly consolidated salary
of Rs. 22,935.
(v) Officers, who are already in Public or Provincial Public
Service should submit applications through their Head of
the Department.
(vi) Applications, without confirmity with the specimen
application form, will be rejected. Inquiries about
applications lost or delayed will not be accepted.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.01.2015
43
09. Furnishing false information .– Your candidature will be
repealed, if any information mentioned in the application, being
detected as incorrect or false, before the recruitment. If such
information being detected after the recruitment, action will be taken
to dismiss from the service, subject to the procedure relevant thereto.
10. Public Service Commission reserves the right to fill or not to
fill vacancies.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil
and English texts of this notification, Sinhala text shall prevail.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Youth Affairs and
Skills Development.
Nipunatha Piyasa,
No. 354/2, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05.
S
PECIMEN APPLICA TION
For office use
APPLICA TION FOR THE POST OF LEGAL OFFICER MINISTRY OF YOUTH AFFAIRS
AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
01. Name of the Applicant :
(i) Name with initials, initials at the end (In block capital
letters) :––––––––––––.
(ii) Full Name (In block capital letters) :––––––––––––.
(iii) Full Name (Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
02. Address and Telephone Number :
(i) Official Address :––––––––––––.
Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
(ii) Private Address :––––––––––––.
Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
Mobile Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
(Any change in the address or telephone number should be
informed immediately)
03. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––.
04. Age as at the closing date of application :
Years :––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
05. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––––.
06. Sex :––––––––––––.
07. Whether married/unmarried/widow :––––––––––––.
08. Education Qualifications :
(i) University, date and Language medium, obtained a Degree
in Law :––––––––––––.
(ii) Date, sworn in Supreme Court as a lawyer :–––––––––––.
09. Professional experience as a lawyer :––––––. Years :–––––––.
10. Professional Qualifications :
Examination/ Year Subjects Grade Name of the
Diploma Institution/University
11. Experience :
Institutions, Designation Period Whether Public
worked worked Sector/Semi
Government/Private
12. Proffeciency in Computer Literacy :
Degree :––––––––––––.
Diploma :––––––––––––.
Certificate course :––––––––––––.
13. Proffeciency in English Language :
Degree in English Medium :––––––––––––.
Diploma course in English :––––––––––––.
Certificate course in English :––––––––––––.
14. If you are a citizen of Sri Lanka, state by decent or registration
(If registration, state details) :––––––––––––.
15. Whether you have dissmissed from a post in Public Service, that
you had been holding ? :––––––––––––.
16. If you are already in public service is there any disciplinary
inquiry pending against you ? :––––––––––––.
17. Whether you have been convicted in a court, if so, state details :
––––––––––––.
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am aware that if any particulars
contained there in are found to be false and incorrect, before the

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.01.2015
44
selection, I’m liable to disqualify and dismissal, without compensation,
if the inaccuracy is detected after the appointment.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
18. Attestation of the signature of the candidate :
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................ is
personaly known to me and placed his/her signature in my presence
on ........................
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of certifying officer.
Date :––––––––––––.
(This part is applicable only for candidates who engage in
Government employment)
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Attestation of the Head of the Department/Institution :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ....................... who is
working in this Ministry/Department/Institution, is presently
working in the post of ........................... and his/her work and conduct
are satisfactory, no disciplinary action pending against him/her and
no discision has been taken to impose any such in future. He/She
can/cannot be released from the service once he/she is selected for.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department
or Authorized Officer.
(Official Seal)
Date :––––––––––––.
01–214