

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
ශී  ලංකා  පජාතාන්තික  සමාජවාදී   ජනරජෙය්  ගැසට්  පතය 
අති විෙශෂ   
අංක 2190/25 - 2020  අෙගෝස්තු මස 25 වැනි අඟහරුවාදා  - 2020.08.25 
 
No. 2190/25 –  TUESDAY, AUGUST 25,  2020 
EXTRAORDINARY 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 
(Published by Authority) 
 
PART IV (A) - PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS  
 
 
Provincial Council Notifications 
 
NOTIFICATION MADE UNDER ARTICLE 154 C THAT SHALL BE READ WITH THE ARTICLE 154 F OF 
THE CONSTITUTION OF DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA AND  
THE SUB SECTION 19 (5) OF THE PROVINCIAL COUNCILS ACT No. 42 OF 1987 
 
 
I, Roshan Goonetileke, Governor of Western Province, in term s of the powers vested upon me under Article 154 C that 
shall be read with the Article 154 F of the Constitution of  Democratic Socialist Repub lic of Sri Lanka and the Sub 
Section 19 (5) of the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987; hereby notify the publication of rules that shall be made 
applicable in formulating and implementing  the development plans relevant for the financial year in respect of the 
development affairs performed by expending the finance of the Western Provincial Council fund. 
 
 
 R
OSHAN GOONETILEKE, 
 RWP VSV USP 
 Phd (Hon) FIM (Sri Lanka) ndc, psc 
 Marshal of the Sri Lanka Air Force, 
 The Governor, 
 Western Province. 
 
On 24th August 2020, 
At the Governor’s Office (Western Province), 
Located at the Western Provincial Council Office Complex, 
Battaramulla.  
 
PG 5111 - 77 (2020/08) 


<!-- page 2 -->

2 A IV(A)  ෙකොටස - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2020.08.25 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2020 
Rules relevant to formulate and implement development plans related to the Western Provincial Council Fund 
 
 1. These rules are enacted to formul ate development plans for a certain financial year in respect of the Western 
Provincial Council fund and to direct criteria relevant for the implementation of such plans.   
 
 2. These rules are referred as rules relevant to formul ate and implement development plans related to the Western 
Provincial Council Fund. 
 
 3. It is hereby directed that each ministry of the Western Province sh all act accordingly to the criteria mentioned 
below, in formulating the development plan and the Action Plan for a financial year relevant to the Western 
Provincial Council fund. 
 
 1. Where annual development plans relevant for the Western Provincial Council fund are formulated, 
development schemes for the Western Province shall be  taken into consideration adhering to the National 
Policy Framework. 
 
 2. Development plan shall be formulated reaching th e priority ranges, sustainable development objectives and 
goals  that have been already identified within the Medium Term Sectoral Result Framework. 
 
 3. In implementing development projects, attention shall be paid to formulate plans for the projects which 
directly come under the purview of the scope of the ministry, avoiding any duplication of such projects.  
Herein, priority shall be given to grant the Proj ect Authority and the Implementing Authority to the 
institution which is under the relevant ministry.  
 
 4. In implementing the development projects, all the projects shall be subject to the supervision of the 
respective Project Authority.  
 
 5. Attention shall be paid to function in a manner of which the sustainability and the productivity of the 
projects are secured.   
 
 6. For the implementation of training and capacity development programmes, a detailed project report with 
an estimate shall be prepared and sh all get it approved by the Project Authority. For projects which are up 
to five million rupees, functions shall be carried out as stated above and regarding the projects which are 
over that value, functions shall be carried out as per the instructions of the circulars issued from time to 
time.    
 
 7. i.  Where new construction projects that take several years to be completed are formulated, total 
approximate estimate of the  project and the amount that is expected to be completed by each year shall 
be presented. The source of fund for the project in respect of the coming years shall be presented as 
well.   
 
  ii.  No project shall be commen ced without a proper plan on source of  total provisions necessary for the 
projects which are expected to be completed within one year.  
 
 8. In presenting proposals intended for rehabilitation or construction of a property, it shall belong either to a 
government or semi government institution. Befo re allocating provision for the construction and 
renovation of buildings, the clear future consumption of such buildings shall be satisfactory and a clear 
procedure for maintaining such construction in future shall be formulated.  
 
 9. In presenting project proposals relevant for timely necessities and special events in addition to the 
functions stated for the relevant sectors, a justifica tion report  shall be submitted to the Chief Secretary 
with a recommendation obtained either from the releva nt Secretary of the Prov incial Ministry or the 
Implementing Authority.  Where the Chief Secretary is satisfied regarding that, the Chief Secretary shall 
grant the assent to implement such projects.  
 
 10. Provision can be allocated on the justification and the recommendation of the Implementing Authority for 
the development and construction of registered public buildings of the government that render provincial 
services.   

<!-- page 3 -->

3A IV(A) ෙකොටස - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2020.08.25 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2020 
11. Training of officers shall not be done by the provisions allocated under the Provincial development 
programmes and those shall be directed only for capital expenditure.  
 
 4. In identifying and approving proposals under the subject of Education, adherence to the following criteria is 
required.  
 
 1. Construction and development affairs of government  schools, construction of  safety fence and gates, 
sanitary affairs and providing of drinking water, construction and development of playgrounds, children’s 
parks including essential development affairs of schools  and providing essential materials and equipment  
such as computers, desks, chairs, music instruments, sports equipment, laboratory equipment based on the 
recommendation of the Zonal Director of Education; can be performed avoiding duplication with projects 
implemented utilizing other sources of funds.  
 
 2. For students who are unable to buy books and educa tional equipment as a result of a the low income of the 
family, educational equipment, books, pens, pencils, mathematical boxes and school bags etc. can be 
provided to a student subject to the maximum of Rs. 5000 per year. After obtaining the recommendation 
of the Grama Niladhari and the Principal regarding the income status of the family, such donations shall 
be done to the relevant student through the class t eacher. In performing the above actions, the Head of the 
Department shall obtain a confirmation by the Zonal Director of Education. No other student of the school 
shall be informed about in this regard and shall refrain from providing books and equipment to students in 
general using this fund. 
 
 3. Taking actions to conduct co-curricular seminars, training workshops in order to develop knowledge, 
skills and attitudes of students and teachers of Prov incial Schools. Zonal Di rector of Education and 
Provincial Director of Education shall certify that such resource persons are experts in those subjects.   
 
  4. Training programmes, seminars conducted aiming at examinations shall be planned within the relevant 
period enabling to reach the expected goals of the programme.  
 
 5. Projects that can be implemented shall be as follows.  
 
 i. Conducting scholarship felicitation programmes for children.  
 
 ii. Presenting proposals adhering to the National Polic ies in planning special pr ogrammes that can direct 
children who leave school education towards the vocational education according to their skills.  
 
 iii. Providing essential equipment for special education and informal education units.  
 
 iv. Buildings of  preschools which are under the purview of Central Government, Provincial Council, 
Local Government Institutions  can be developed.  
 
 v. Conducting Preschool Teacher training programmes subject to the maximum of Rs.150,000.  
 
 vi. Providing desks, chairs and other essential equipment for preschools registered in Divisional 
Secretariat Division under the Preschool Statute subject to the maximum of five thousand rupees.  
 
 5.  In identifying and approving proposals under the subject of Lands, adherence to the following criteria is required.  
 
 (1) Presenting proposals for land reformation and de velopment while giving attention to environmental 
conservation. 
 
 (2) Implementing laws and rules relevant to lands, presenting proposals which plans for capital investments 
  relevant to assignment of public lands on privat e or institutional level and maintaining land database. 
 
 (3) Presenting proposals to develop and build common in frastructure facilities in or der to upgrade the living 
standard of colonists. 

<!-- page 4 -->

4 A IV(A)  ෙකොටස - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2020.08.25 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2020 
6. In identifying and approving proposals under the subject of local government and local administration, 
adherence to the following criteria is required. 
 
 (1) Development and maintenance of public rural roads situated in the territories of local government 
institutions and other development activities of small bridges, culverts of relevant rural roads. 
 
 (2) Development and maintenance of local government services such as community halls, weekly fairs, 
drinking water supply, library services, crematoriums, regulating and development of cemeteries, maternal 
clinics, preschools, playgrounds and parks. 
 
 (3) Making the community aware of maintaining health and hygiene within the local government territory, 
waste management, development and maintenance of public lavatory, drainage systems and canals. 
 
 (4) Providing required facilities to efficiently and regularly maintain local government institution system. 
 
 (5) Providing water and electricity facilities for community halls, public buildings situated in the lands that 
belong to government and local government institutions. 
 
 (6) Matters of empowering officers and community to direct and to increase the efficiency of implementing 
projects and service programmes of local government institutions. 
 
 (7) Providing machinery and maintaining maintenance un its that are required to enhance the efficiency of 
providing local government services. 
 
 (8) Providing waste separation bins and compost bins that are needed for waste management. 
 
 (9) Allocation of provisions for large scale project s that local government institutions are unable to 
implement. 
 
 (10) Providing required facilities and equipment for disaster management. 
 
 (11) Providing equipment for community panels that do not have adequate chairs   and covers which are 
registered in Pradeshiya Sabha and active for more  than two years subjecting to a maximum of one 
hundred thousand rupees. 
 
 7. In identifying and approving proposals under the subject of Agriculture, adherence to the following criteria is 
required. 
 (1)  In order to increase the productivity of agricultural crops in the province, providing agricultural equipment 
up to a maximum of one hundred thousand rupees as the beneficiary contribution of the registered 
agrarians’ organizations to be 30% of the total value.  
 
 (2)  Providing the seeds, planting materials and inputs to farmers up to a maximum of fifty thousand rupees so 
as the beneficiary contribution to the agrarians’ organi zation to be 30% of the total value to increase the 
productivity of agricultural crops in the province.  
 
    (3) Presenting project proposals relevant to marketing promotions of produced agricultural crops.  
 
 (4) Presenting project proposals relevant to increase the use of organic fertilizers to make quality vegetable 
and fruits available for domestic use.  
 
  (5) Presenting required project proposals for value added products and supplying market facilities for them. 
 
  (6) Conducting relevant officer training programmes for farmers, farmers’ organizations and extensive 
services. 
 
  (7) Conducting training programmes to promote home gardening models in schools, houses and public 
institutions and providing inputs when necessary. 

<!-- page 5 -->

5A IV(A) ෙකොටස - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2020.08.25 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2020 
  (8) Increasing the crop production and productivity by making quality seeds, planting materials and inputs 
adequately available. 
 
 (9) Implementing projects to promote agricultural businesses and entrepreneurship and to minimize post-
harvest damage. 
 
 (10) Presenting proposals to incline youth community to agriculture. 
 
 (11) Presenting environmental friendly agricultural proposals. 
 
 (12) Implementing relevant programmes to utilize the lands that are not used for agriculture in a productive 
manner.  
 
 (13) Introducing advanced seeds that are ma de to be resistant to climate changes.  
 
 (14) Making the public aware of the ways those agricultural activities to be carried out causing minimum 
damage to the environment. 
 
 (15) Transmitting latest agricultural knowledge to farmers. 
 
 (16) Presenting project proposals for construction of buildings relevant to agriculture and development 
activities. 
 
 8.  In identifying and approving proposals under the subject of minor irrigation, adherence to the following criteria 
is required. 
 
 (1) Providing facilities for water supply to agricultural fields. 
 
 (2) Maintenance of existing and new irrigation syst ems, development and construction of new irrigation 
systems in such a way that the maximum labour contribution can be obtained. 
 
 (3) Conducting programmes to make the farmers aware of water management. 
 
 (4) Presenting project proposals related to constructions belonging to minor irrigation or irrigation of which 
construction activities are expected to be finished or other items. 
 
 (5) Construction of agricultural roads and tractor jumps to enter agricultural lands. 
 
 09.  Shall function adhering to the following criteria in identifying proposals under the subject of Industry.  
 
 (1) Aids can be provided to purc hase necessary inputs and equipment to  specifically identified projects of 
active, small industry association registered for enco uraging local traditional industries covering different 
ranges enabling to enhance the quality of their product s. Therein, a contribution of 30% out of the value 
shall be borne by the relevant Association and the maximum value of the aid that can be given is two lakhs. 
For this, it is compulsory to have the recommendation of the relevant Industry Promotional Officer along 
with the project proposal. In addition to this, if equipment are provided for a beneficiary who engaged in 
local traditional industry, it shall be provided subject to a maximum of five thousand rupees on 30% of 
beneficiary contribution.  
 
 (2) Introducing market for the sale of products of those organizations, contributing to conduct mobile markets 
and exhibitions.  
 
 (3) Presenting proposals to introduce new technical methodologies.  
 
 (4) In conducting training programmes to promote capabilities of those who engage in industries, resource 
persons shall be selected according to the target te am. The resource person shall be an expert with a 

<!-- page 6 -->

6 A IV(A)  ෙකොටස - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2020.08.25 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2020 
professional competency relevant to  the respective field of the subject. Similarly, certificates obtained by a 
recognized institution shall be presented and the full approval of the Project or Implementing Authority 
shall be obtained according to the nature of the project.  
 
 (5) For the training programmes of people who engage or expected to be  engaged in a self-employment, each 
person can be provided with provisions subject to a maximum of twenty five thousand rupees.  Individuals 
who are not covered by another method and those who have not previously benefited by such 
accommodative allowance and low income earners incl uded in following segments shall be given the 
priority.  
 
 (1) People in the age group of 18-45 years of low income earning families.  
 (2) Widows 
 (3) People with special needs  
 
 (6) In providing self-employment equipment as direct grants, under the source of Provincial Development 
Finance, providing such equipment subject to the maximum of fifty thousand rupees without a beneficiary 
contribution. In case of exceeding the amount of fifty thousand rupees that exceeding amount shall be borne 
by the beneficient. In this case the respective beneficiaries shall be confirmed as a low income earner.  
 
  Similarly, the list of names of the beneficiaries shall be presented for approval. Attention shall be paid to; 
take actions to encourage small and medium scale industries of Western Province, provide entrepreneurship 
training and technical training for them, provide fina ncial services and financia l credit facilities, prepare a 
pension for them, conduct programmes of networking the information of salesmen. By gathering the 
innovators of the province, programmes shall be conducted for them paving the way for them to contribute 
for the national development by directing them to the institutions of the Central Government. Under this, 
only capital goods relevant for the project shall be provided. No consuming goods shall be provided.  
 
 10.   Shall function adhering to the following criteria in identifying and approving proposals under the subject of 
Environment affairs. 
 
 (1) Maintaining the existing environment system of Western Province sustainably.  
 
 (2) Creating urban bowers, forest parks and herbal gardens including environmental parks for the community of 
the Province.  
 
 (3) Creating green borders e ither side of the roads.  
  
 (4)  Creating a joint partnership for environment development with government, non-government and private 
institutions, creating green villages and herbal villages.  
 
 (5)  Protecting and improving aquatic environmental systems such as water resources, canals and streams, tanks 
and ponds, beaches and bays.  
 
 (6)  Conducting programmes with the coordination of relevant parties to identify and solve major environmental 
problems of the Western Province. 
 
 (7)  Commemorating environment day. 
  
 (8)  Implementing projects related to national level environmental programmes. 
  
 (9)  Implementing programme s for special conservation of  flora and fauna that have faced the threat of 
extinction. 
 
 11.   In identifying and approving proposals under the subject of cultural and arts, adherence to the following criteria 
is required.  
 

<!-- page 7 -->

7A IV(A) ෙකොටස - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2020.08.25 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2020 
 (1) Introduction of project proposals that helps to preserve provincial legacies and heritages and to pass them 
to the next generation. 
 
 (2) Provisions can be granted subjecting to a maximum of five hundred thousand rupees for essential 
development activities of under privileged registered  religious places and Dhamma schools. Religious 
places and Dhamma schools that did not receive provisions earlier should be given the priority. 
 
 (3) Essential equipment can be given to under priv ileged registered Dhamma schools to continue Dhamma 
school activities and on the recommendation of the pr ovincial cultural officer, the maximum amount that 
can be allocated to one Dhamma school once in three years is two hundred thousand rupees. 
 
 (4) A maximum provision amount of two hundred thousand rupees can be allocated to a function that 
preserve traditional dancing or other arts or to pr ovide essentials for one traditional dancing group. In 
situations where provisions should be provided beyond the maximum limit, they should be allocated on 
the approval of Provincial Planning Committee.  
 
 (5) Granting provisions up to a maximum amount of  one hundred thousand rup ees to provide necessary 
musical instruments under a beneficiary contribution of 20% on the approval of Provincial Cultural 
Officer. 
 
 (6) Implementing project proposals to promote activities of cultural centers of the Provincial Council. 
 
 (7) Allocation of a maximum of four hundred thousand rupees on Divisional level  to appreciate individuals 
who have showcased extraordinary skills in various fiel ds of cultural and arts , to implement provincial or 
district level programmes that ex ceeds the maximum limit, the Chief Secretary sh ould approve them on 
the recommendation of Secretary of the Ministry in charge of the subject. 
 
 (8) Planning divisional programmes by allocating a maximum amount of two hundred thousand rupees to 
enhance the entertainment and art skills of the community. Nevertheless, in cases which the Chief 
Secretary is contented on the recommendation of the secretary of the ministry in charge of the subject, the 
maximum limit of provisions can be exceeded up to five hundred thousa nd rupees on the approval of the 
Chief Secretary. 
 
 (9) Sponsorship fee can be provided for conservation and promotion of traditional dances and other art work 
and to conduct processions gazetted under art work or historically pe rformed processions . In selecting 
these, recommendation of the provincial cultural offi cers shall be obtained and implementation of these 
projects shall be done under the Provincial Ministry of Culture or under the appropriate authority. 
 
 (10) Provisions up to a maximum of  Rs.100,000 can be allocated for annual literary festivals organized at 
District and Divisional levels by the Divisional Secretariats for the ancillary factors. 
 
12. In indentifying and approving the proposals under the subject of health and indigenous medicine, adherence to the 
following criteria is required.    
 
 (1)  Implementation of the projects submitted for re novation activities or for construction of hospitals, MOH 
Offices, Central Dispensaries, drug st ores, quarters, clinical buildings, internal access roads, and drainage 
systems and other infrastructure relevant to health sector  
 
 (2)  Provide the equipment and machinery required for maintaining healthy public health services in 
government health institutions. 
 
 (3) Implementing training programs required for strengthening and improvement of the quality of prophylaxis 
and treatment services, conducting programs to improve  the sanitation and nutrition level of the pregnant 
ladies. 
 
 (4) Introducing the technology required for strengthening the prophylaxis and treatment services. 

<!-- page 8 -->

8 A IV(A)  ෙකොටස - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2020.08.25 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2020 
 (5) Conservation and development of traditional medicine 
 
 (6) Take necessary actions to improve the production of drugs and herbal gardens. 
 
 (7)  Providing material assistance to improve the sanitation of low income families up to a maximum of  
Rs. 50,000 per beneficiary family and 25% of the beneficiary contribution. 
 
13.  In identifying and approving the proposals under the subject of Probationary and Child Care Services, adherence to 
the following criteria is required. 
 
 (1)   Assuring the welfare and the daily requirements of the children under the custody of the probation. 
 
 (2)  Implementing the programs required for capacity bu ilding and the knowledge required for the children in 
socialization of the probation children. 
 
 (3)  To take necessary actions to prevention of child probation. 
 
 (4)  Renovation and construction of the registered Child orphanages and buildings belonged to the Department 
of Probation. 
 
 (5)  Implementing awareness programs and training programs required to improve the efficiency and the 
quality of the staff that shall be aware of providing  protection and care for orphaned, abandoned, helpless 
and abused children.  
 
14.  In identifying and approving the proposals under the subject of power and energy, adherence to the following 
criteria is required. 
 
 (1)  Extending the power cable system and set three- phase power outage, installation of electrical substations 
and displacement of power poles. 
 
 (2)  Providing a maximum of twenty five thousand rupees on the recommendation of the Divisional Secretary 
in order to provide the connectivity to the national electricity grid for the houses where there are school 
children, people with special needs and low- income families  
  
 (3)  Introducing alternative energy sources when required, developing and connecting to the National 
Electricity Grid. 
 
 (4)  Providing electricity for community halls and society halls located in the government institutions and 
lands owned by the government. 
 
15.  In identifying and approving the proposals under the subject of provincial roads, adherence to the following criteria 
is required. 
 
 (1)  Construction of new roads belong to the types of C and D, develop the prevailing roads and maintain the 
roads. 
 
 (2)  In order to protect the stability of road development mending the culverts and small bridges and 
construction of drainage systems on both sides of the roads. 
 
 (3)  Construction and development of provincial roads, small bridges, culverts and drainage system 
 
 (4)  Based on the recommendation of the relevant institutions, fixing proper road signals 
 
 16.  In identifying and approving the proposals under the subject of Housing and Constructions, adherence to the 
following criteria is required. 
 
 (1)  For low income families, after confirming the ownership of the land, a sponsorship fee up to a maximum 
of Rs. 100,000 and a minimum of Rs.30,000 or material assistance can be provided per beneficiary family 
for future work and renovation of a house. 
  In case of a special disaster (such as landslides, fires, hurricanes, floods) a maximum of Rs. 300,000 shall 
be obtained under the special recommendation of the Divisional Secretary and the approval of the Chief 
Secretary. 

<!-- page 9 -->

9A IV(A) ෙකොටස - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2020.08.25 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2020 
  Only families that meet at least one of the following  requirements are eligible for the above claims. These 
facts shall be confirmed on the certificate of the Grama Niladhari. 
 
 (i) Low income families where ther e are school children and disabled  
 (ii) Disappointment due to death of bread winner of the family 
 (iii) Low-income families where the head of the household is a woman 
 
17.  In identifying and approving the proposals under the subjec t of social welfare, adherence to the following criteria is 
required. 
 
 (1)  Take necessary actions  for the welfare and the spiritual development of the senior citizens and people who 
have lost social privileges due to illness, old age, disability or orphanage. 
 
 (2)  Essential equipment up to a maximum of Rs. 1 lakh can be provided for the formally registered welfare 
and funeral organizations which are important for social welfare, Elders' Associations and Elders' Boards. 
 
 (i)  Those equipment shall be used for common welfare activities and they shall be included in the 
inventory of the relevant institution. 
 
 (ii)  Items shall be properly handed over and documented on the recommendation of the relevant 
Divisional Secretary when issuing the above items. 
 
 (3)  Providing necessary equipment to the el ders’ homes and rehabilitation homes for disabled. 
 
 (4)  Conducting awareness programs to prevent elders and disadvantaged community from going home and 
conducting community awareness programs on the issues face d by such elderly and disadvantaged 
community. Conducting spiritual development programs for residential elders in elders’ homes. 
 
 (5)  Funds can be allocated for training programs and self –employment equipment in order to prevent the 
disadvantaged community belonging to the workforce from being housed. Said Provisions can be 
provided with the recommendation of Provincial Director of Social Serv ices or a local official nominated 
by him or her. 
 
 (6)  Implementing the awareness programs and training programs required to improve the efficiency and the 
quality of the staff that should be aware of providing  protection and care of the disadvantaged community 
and the senior citizens in the Western Province. 
 
 (7)  Provisions up to a maximum of Rs.200,000 can be allocated on the recommendation of the relevant officer 
of provincial social services and the Divisional Secretary to develop the necessary facilities of the houses 
of the low income disabled persons. 
 
 (8)  Special aid equipment up to Rs. 50,000 shall be provided to facilitate the daily life of the people with 
special needs from low income families, especially sc hool children. These equipment shall be tailored to 
their special needs. Medical recommendation and the approval of the Provincial  Director of Social 
Services shall be obtained in providing such equipment. 
 
 18.  In identifying and approving the proposals under the subject of urban and estate infrastructure, adherence to the 
following criteria is required.  
 
 (1)  In order to enhance the living standards of the people living in estates, improving the plantation roads, 
providing water facilities, under the provision of electricity facilitie s to the houses belonging to low 
income families with school children each beneficiary can be given a sponsorship of up to a maximum of 
Rs. 25,000 to obtain electricity conn ection. Certificate of income status should be obtained from Grama 
Niladhari. The amount paid for obtain ing electricity for a house should be paid to the institution which 
supplies electricity. 
 
 (2)  Providing provisions for the development of the houses of the people living in the plantation. Provisions 
cannot be allocated for direct grants under this section. 

<!-- page 10 -->

10 A IV(A)  ෙකොටස - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2020.08.25 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2020 
 (3) Identification of plantation roads should be done precisely by proper methodology. In this, access roads to 
the villages through the estates should be developed. 
 
 19.  In identifying and approving the proposals under the subject of transportation, adherence to the following criteria is 
required. 
 
 (1)  Constructing and mending the main bus yards excluding the bus yards maintained by Sri Lanka Transport 
Board. 
 
 (2)  Provide the civilians a quality service through the construction of passenger shelters by both sides of the 
roads. 
 
 (3)  Prepare programs to minimize the road acci dents by passenger transport buses in the province. 
 
 20. In identifying and approving the proposals under the subject of sports, adherence to the following criteria is 
required. 
 
 (1) To present project proposals to make the people involved in sports activities. 
 
 (2)  Providing sports equipment for the promotion of registered Sports Associations and non-private body 
building centers, subject to a maximum of  Rs.100,000 on the recommendation of Sports Officer to whom 
the power has been vested and the Secretary of the Provincial subject ministry.  
 
 (3)  Presenting project proposals to provide sport equipment or garment equipment which are for sportsmen/
women who represent sports competitions in provincial or national level for each, once in two years 
subject to a maximum of Rs.75,000, on the recommendation of Provincial Director of Sports or 
Authorized Officer.  
 
 (4)  Developing the facilities of play grounds/sports cen ters of the province yet not located in schools and in 
which the entitlement of the government is confirmed. 
 
 (5) Conducting training programmes and sports tourname nts to enhance the sports skills of the provincial 
sportsmen/women. 
 
 (6) Organizing the parties in the field of sports in divisional, district and provincial level properly. 
 
 (7) Conducting programmes in divisional, district and provincial level in order to appreciate sportsmen/
women who showed outstanding skills in the field of sports. 
 
21.  Shall function with adherence to the criteria mentioned below in identifying and approving proposals under the 
subject of youth affairs.  
 
 (1) Conducting training programmes to enhance the vocational skills of the community of youth. 
 
 (2) Conducting programmes to direct the youth to practice modern technology.  
 
 (3) Conducting programmes aiming at the development of leadership, attitudes and personality development 
among the youths.   
 
 (4) Approving programmes within th e first two quarters of the year.  
 
22. Shall function with adherence to the criteria mentioned below in identifying and approving proposals under the 
subject of women. 
 
 (1) Providing provisions for women who are engaged and expected to be engaged in a self- employment, on 
30% of beneficiary contribution subject to a maximum of five thousand rupees.  
 

<!-- page 11 -->

11A IV(A) ෙකොටස - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2020.08.25 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2020 
 (2) Presenting proposals to identify aggrieved women and to upgrade their living condition.  
 
 (3) Conducting personality development and leadership  workshops to prioritize in economic, social and 
political backgrounds.  
 
 (4) Conducting counseling programmes for women.  
 
23.  Shall function with adherence to the criteria mentioned below in identifying and approving proposals under the 
subject of Co-operative development.   
 
 (1) Development of business places in a way that attracts customers and implementation of sales promotional 
programmes for quality goods.  
 
 (2) Planning training programmes that are suitable fo r the competitiveness deviating from traditional training 
programmes with the objective of promoting skills of those who engaged in the co-operative field.  
 
 (3) Presenting appropriate proposals  to invest cash of co-operative financial sectors in rural sectors.  
 
 (4) Proposing programmes to register school co-operative associations in order to provide co-operative 
knowledge to the school children.  
 
 24.  Shall function with adherence to the criteria mentioned below in identifying and approving proposals under the 
subject of water supply and drainage.   
  
 (1) Providing water facilities for the community in order to facilitate them with drinking water. 
 
 (2) Providing water facilities under community water projects.  
 
 (3) Construction and development of common wells utili zed for taking drinking water and other necessities 
  
 (4)  Creating tube wells in appropri ate places according to the necessity.  
 
25.  Shall function with adherence to the criteria mentioned below in identifying and approving proposals under the 
subject of fisheries.  
 
 (1) Providing fishing tools and equipment for those who engage in the field of fishery,  subject to a maximum 
up to Rs.100,000 with 30% of the beneficiary contribu tion  with the objective of reducing the nutritional 
deficiencies of rural people and creating the food security.    
 
 (2) Presenting proposals to promote the sales of fish.  
 
 (3) Planning to form facilities to store and preserve surplus food. 
 
 (4) Presenting Proposals to promote ornamental fish industry.  
 
 (5) Presenting proposals to spread the aquacultu re associated with brackish water and lagoons. 
 
 (6) Promoting the industries related to value added productions in fishery industry. 
 
 (7) Conducting training programmes, seminars for the community of fishers.  
 
 (8) Presenting proposals for social we lfare of the community of farmers.  
 
 (9)  Constructing and developing of buildings belonged to the Ministry used for the fishery affairs.   
 
26. Shall function according to the crite rions mentioned below when identifyi ng and approving proposals under the 
subject of Rural Development. 

<!-- page 12 -->

12 A IV(A)  ෙකොටස - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2020.08.25 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2020 
 (1) Submitting projects related to minor roads, foot br idges, small bridges and culverts, rural market facilities 
specifically identified in villages which do not come under the scope of local government. 
 
 (2) Providing chairs and tents that can be assembled to the Rural Development Societies, SANASA Societies 
that are being actively operated for more than 2 years and have duly been registered in the Provincial 
Council and do not have such items to the sufficient level, subjected to a maximum amount of  
Rs. 100,000/- on the recommendation of Rural Developm ent Officer authorized by the Secretary of the 
Ministry in charge of Rural Development subject.  
 
 (3) Developing a network required for community deve lopment by creating proper coordination by gathering 
volunteer societies established in rural level and function to develop knowledge, skills and attitudes.  
 
 (4) May offer a maximum amount of Rs. 30,000/- to pr ovide water and electricity for public places such as 
rural development society halls. A certification with a proper system on relevant bill payments along with 
the recommendation of the Officer of the rural development society has to be provided. 
 
 (5) Concurrence of the Local Authority shall be obtained by the relevant Operating Authority before 
implementing the project when allocating sums of the Ministry of Roads for the local government roads in 
the rural level under the purview of Rural Development subject. 
 
27. Shall function according to  the criterions mentioned below when iden tifying and approving proposals under the 
subject of Tourism Promotion. 
 
 (1) Improving infrastructure facilities in the places with tourist attraction in the Province. 
 
 (2) Carrying out promotional activities in relation to places with tourist attraction and tourism.   
 (3) Promoting employments related to tourism. 
 
 (4) Conducting training programmes in order to prov ide more qualitative services in relation to tourism. 
 
 (5) Operating programmes simultaneous to celebration of World Tourism Day. 
 
 (6) Conducting training programmes to improve quality of the goods manufactured targeting tourists and 
marketing promotion. 
  
 (7) Promotion of Eco-Tourism and developing infrastructure facilities in that relation. 
 
 28. Shall function according to the cr iterions mentioned below when identifyi ng and approving pr oposals under the 
subject of Animal Production. 
 
 (1) Maintaining a healthy livestock in order to supply meat, milk and eggs to the people. 
 
 (2) Using technical methods to breed animals with high quality and to increase production and submitting 
project proposals to popularize them among farmers. 
 
 (3) Implementing project proposals required to uplift income level of the livestock farmers. 
 
 (4) Planning to offer a maximum amount of Rs. 50,000/- subjected to 30% of beneficiary contribution 
according to a recommendation of a Technical Committee, in offering animals or i nputs in relation to this 
subject as direct grants. In addition, may provide maximum contribution of the government as follows in 
offering direct grants under following matters. 
 
 (i) Rs. 100,000/- as maximum contribution of 70% to build a cattle farm of Three cattle, 
 
 (ii) Rs. 150,000/- as maximum contribution of 70% to build a cattle farm of Five cattle, 
 
 (iii) Rs. 100,000/- as maximum contribution of  70% to buy female cows and buffaloes.  

<!-- page 13 -->

13A IV(A) ෙකොටස - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2020.08.25 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2020 
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA. 
 (5) Submitting project proposals to promote value added productions. 
 
 (6) May offer a maximum amount of Rs. 140,000/- on 70% of government contribution for a Bio-gas Unit of 
8 cubic meters on 30% of beneficiary contribution as direct grants under maintaining the farm in a way of 
minimizing pollution and planning systems to dispose waste. 
 
 (7) Formulating plans to create collecting centers for milk and storage facilities. 
 
 (8) Conducting training and capacity development programmes for the farmers and officers engaged in the 
animal husbandry field. 
 
 (9) Operating programmes related to open and maintain private animal farms of small and medium scale. 
 
 (10) Construction, development and renovation of buildings related to the activities of animal husbandry.  
 
09 - 206 