

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2333$14 - 2023 uehs ui 22 jeks i÷od - 2023.05.22
No. 2333/14  -  MoNday,   May  22, 2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6327 - 366 (05/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
 
L.d.- B. 3/2021(11)
THE   COLOMBO   PORT   CITY   ECONOMIC   COMMISSION   ACT,   No. 11  OF  2021
RULES made by the Colombo Port City Economic Commission under Section 72 of the Colombo Port City Economic 
Commission act, No. 11 of 2021 read with Section 6(l)(w) of the aforesaid act.
 director-General,
 for and on behalf of
 the Colombo Port City Economic Commission.
Colombo.
Rules
1. These Rules may be cited as the Colombo Port City (duty-Free operations) Rules, No. 1of 2023.
2. an authorised person engaged in duty-free operations -

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'05'22
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.05.2023
2a
	 (a)	shall	 not	sell	any	goods	other	than	the	permitted	goods	specified	in	Column I of Schedule I to these rules in 
permitted	quantities	specified	in	the	corresponding	entry	in	Column II of that Schedule;and
	 (b)	shall	 sell	any	permitted	goods	referred	to	in	subrule	(a)	as	per	the	details	of	the	allowances	specified	in	
Column I	 of	Schedule	II	to	these	rules,	within	the	permitted	allowances	and	conditions	specified	in	the	
corresponding entry in Column II, Column III, Column IV , Column V , Column VI and Column VII of that 
Schedule,	to	the	permitted	customers	specified	under	the	heading	of	each	such	colunm.
3. The authorised person referred to in rule 2 shall implement necessary procedures to verify and satisfy himself 
with the eligibility of the permitted customers to purchase permitted goods in permitted quantities within the permitted 
allowances	and	conditions	as	specified	in	the	respective	Schedules	;
4. The authorised person shall accept payments for any transaction in relation to duty-free operations in designated 
foreign currencies.
5. In these rules-
“duty-free operations” means the duty-free mall with multiple duty-free retail operators in the area of authority 
of the Colombo Port City;
“Sri Lankan Passport Holder’’ means a person holding a valid passport issued by the department of Immigration 
and Emigration in Sri Lanka; and
“Tourist’’ means a foreign passport holder with a valid visa.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'05'22
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.05.2023
3a
SCHEDULE  I
 
[rule 2]
Permitted Goods in Permitted Quantities
Column I Column II
Permitted Goods Permitted Quantities (Units of Sale)
1 apparel (Garments of Sportswear, inner wear, Fashion & Luxury wear) 36
2
audio & Visual Equipment, (Blue tooth Speakers, CCTV Systems, Home Entertainment System & 
Electronic Gadgets) 2
3 digital Photographic Cameras, Video Cameras & Photographic accessories 2
4 Computer accessories (Cables, audio & Visual aids) 2
5 Computer desktops, Laptops, Tablets & Computer Peripherals 3 (1 unit of each product)
6 Confectionery, Sweets & Biscuits 10kg (maximum)
7 Beverages (Powder drinks, Energy drinks, Soft drinks) & Water 10kg (maximum)
8 Packaged Foods & delicatessens 10kg (maximum)
9 Game Consoles & Games Software 1 Unit & 6 Games
10 Grooming & Toiletries Products, Baby Products (Hair, Face, oral & Body Care Products) 12
11 Health & Wellness Products 12
12 Home Care & Laundry Care Product 10kg (maximum)
13 Kitchen Utensils & Cutlery 36

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'05'22
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.05.2023
4a
Column I Column II
Permitted Goods Permitted Quantities (Units of Sale)
14 Kids Toys, Baby Carriages & Baby accessories 6 (2 units of each product)
15 Leather accessories (Belts, Bags, Wallets & Shoes) 16 (4 units of each product)
16 Luggage 2
17 Mobile Telephones & accessories 2
18 Musical Instruments 4 (1 unit of each product)
19 Pens, other Writing Instruments & desk accessories 12
20 Perfume, Cosmetics, Make-Up & Make-up accessories
2 Bottles of Perfumes, Cosmetics, Make- up & 
Make-up accessories (5 units of each product)
21 Sports Items, GyM Equipment, Bicycles (not motorized) & Bicycle accessories 12 (3 units of each product)
22 Spirits, Wines & Beer
2 litres (bottles) of Sprits, 2 litres (bottles) of 
Wine and 2 litres of Beer*
23 Sunglasses, Eyewear & related accessories 4
24 Watches & Clocks 4
25 Tobacco (Cigarettes & Cigars) 1 Carton of Cigarettes & 1 Box of Cigars**
* Eligible to purchase, only if 18 years of age or above.
** Eligible for tourist, Sri Lankans and residents over 18 years of age. Sale of goods for collection only at International Airport.
SCHEDULE  I  (Contd.)

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'05'22
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.05.2023
5a
SCHEDULE  II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  [rule 2]
PERMITTED ALLOWANCES
Column I Column II Column III Column IV Column V Column VI Column VII
details Sri Lankan passport 
holders who have 
returned to Sri 
Lanka with valid 
proof /
Foreign passport 
holders with 
resident visas in 
Sri Lanka who 
have returned to Sri 
Lanka with valid 
proof
Tourists Persons attached to diplomatic 
Missions, United Nations, 
and other organizations of the 
United Nations in Sri Lanka 
as	certified	by	the	Ministry	of	
Foreign affairs
Sri Lankan Passport 
Holders who intend to 
travel overseas with valid 
proof for such travelling/
Foreign passport holders 
with resident visas in Sri 
Lanka who intend to travel 
overseas
Persons residing 
outside Sri Lanka 
who intend to 
purchase Permitted 
Goods via the 
internet and obtain 
the Permitted Goods 
thus purchased 
delivered to a place 
outside Sri Lanka
diplomatic Missions, United Nations, 
and other organizations of the United 
Nations	in	Sri	Lanka	as	certified	by	
the Ministry of Foreign affairs
1 duty Free allowance 
Value in USd
annual limit of 
USd 5,000
Not applicable (No 
value limit)
annual limit of USd 5,000 Not applicable (No value 
limit –
Collection at airport)
Not applicable. (No 
value limit. Goods 
delivery overseas)
No value limit or as authorized by the 
Foreign	Ministry	certificate
2 Unit Category 
allowance - (Refer 
to Schedule I)
as set out in 
Schedule I
as set out in Schedule I as set out in Schedule I No quantity limit 
applicable. Total purchase 
only for collection at 
airport / port of departure 
in Sri Lanka
No quantity limit 
applicable. Goods 
delivery overseas.
No quantity limit applicable. Quantity 
as	per	Foreign	Office	approval	
certificate.
3 allowance 
Commencement
From the First date 
of arrival to Sri 
Lanka (Fdoa)
From the date of arrival 
to Sri Lanka
Upon issuance of Foreign 
Office	Certificate
Purchase to be completed 
min. 5 days, prior to travel
Post Registration as 
a Colombo Port City 
duty FreeCustomer
Post Registration as a Colombo Port 
City duty FreeCustomer
4 Validity Period of 
allowance
annual allowance 
from Fdoa
during the stay in Sri 
Lanka
Based	on	Foreign	Office	
Approval	Certificate
Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable
5 Purchase Period Must avail within 3 
months of Fdoa
during the stay in Sri 
Lanka
Must avail within 12 months 
from	the	issuance	of	certificate
Purchase to be completed 
min. 5 days, prior to travel
Can place order after 
registration.
Based	on	Foreign	Offic		Approval	
Certificate

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'05'22
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.05.2023
6a
Column I Column II Column III Column IV Column V Column VI Column VII
6 Frequency of Visits 
(within the Purchase 
Period)
Multiple visits 
within 3 months of 
Fdoa
Multiple visits during 
the stay in Sri Lanka
Multiple visits during the 
validity period
Multiple visits allowed- 
Purchase to be completed 
min. 5 days prior to travel
Not applicable Not applicable
7 Excess quantity 
Purchases over the 
quantity	specified	
limits in Schedule I
Not applicable to 
purchase excess
Excess quantity can 
be purchased via a 
separate transaction. 
This transaction is only 
applicable for collection 
at departing airport/
Port in Sri Lanka
Not applicable to purchase 
excess
Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable
8 Can the family 
members accompany 
the Permitted 
Customer to the 
Colombo Port City 
duty-Free
Max. 5 members 
(including 
the Permitted 
Customer)
only the Permitted 
Customer is allowed
Max. 5 members (including the 
Permitted Customer)
Not allowed Not applicable Not applicable
9 allowance (Value / 
Unit) carry forward
Not applicable (The 
allowance is for a 
year from Fdoa) 
irrespective of the 
number of overseas 
trips made during 
the applicable year 
from the Fdoa
Not applicable (The 
quantity prescribed in 
Schedule I is per each 
visit to Sri Lanka)
Not applicable.
Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable
CoNdITIoNS oF SaLE
1. The allowance stipulated (value in USd & units) is applicable for usage by the permitted customer at the Colombo Port City duty-Free.
2. The duty-Free allowance stipulated is applicable for the Colombo Port City duty-Free only, and it is independent of that of any other duty-Free allowances in existence in Sri Lanka.
3.	All	permitted	customers	specified	in	the	heading	to	each	column,	will	bear	the	responsibility	for	their	respective	purchases	of	Duty-Free	products	and	the	quantities,	based	on	transit	and	final			
    destination compliance applicability.
4.	All	applicable	local	taxes	and	restrictions	of	the	carriage	during	transit	and	at	the	final	destination	will	be	the	permitted	customers’	responsibility.
5. duty-Free goods cannot be re-sold or exchanged by the permitted customer in Sri Lanka. Its sole purpose is for self-consumption and use among the family members.
6. The permitted customers shall be 16 years of age or above.
EoG  05 - 0208
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
SCHEDULE II  (Contd.)