

<!-- page 1 -->

YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
   
 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... —
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... 152
Land Redemption Notices ... ––
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... ––
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... ––
  
 
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
 wxl 2"434 - 2025 wfm%a,a ui 25 jeks isl=rdod - 2025'04'25        
 No. 2,434 - FRIDAy , APRIL 25, 2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                
ImPoRTAnT   noTIce  ReGARDInG   AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS  
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekL y  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtION  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.   
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  16th May 2025 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 02nd
  May, 2025.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 k. G. Pradeep Pushpa Kumara,  
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
02
nd January, 2025.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
151 - B 82675 - 333 (04/2025)
Page Page


<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'04'25
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka – 25.04.2025
152
Land Development ordinance notices
LAnD  commISSIoneR  GeneRAL'S  
DePARTmenT
notice for cancellation of the Grants, issued under the 
Sub-section (4) of Section 19 of the Land Development 
ordinance (Section 104)
I, Bogahapitiye Serasingha Gamage Ruwansiri Divisional 
Secretariat of Pelmadulla in the District of Ratnapura in 
Sabaragamuwa Province, hereby inform that the actions are 
being taken to cancel the grant given in terms of Section 
19 (4) of the Land Development Ordinance by the His 
Excellency the President on 09
th  of December 1995 bearing 
No. r;a$m%$22157 to Dangaswaththage Malbinduwa, a 
resident of Marapana and registered on 31 st  of January 
1996 under the 2984 at Ratnapura District Registrar Office, 
under the Section 104 of the same ordinance as it has been 
reported that there is no successor for the Land mentioned in 
below schedule owing to the reason either non availability 
of a person who legally entitles for the succession of he/she 
dislike for being a successor once person is available. In case 
any objection, with this regard are available this should be 
informed me in written before 16.05.2025.
SCHEDULE
  The portion of state land, containing in extent about – 
Hectare/ - Arcs, 02 Roods, - Perches, out of extent marked 
a part of Lot 148 as depicted in the field Sheet bearing No. 
– made by Surveyor General in the Plan, bearing No. F.V .P. 
92 made by the Surveyor General and kept in charge of 
Superintendent of Surveyors, Ratnapura which situated in 
the Village called Marapana belongs to the Grama Niladhari 
Division of Poththakanda in Meda Pattu/ Nawadun Korale 
coming within the area of authority of Pelmadulla Divisional 
Secretariat in the Administrative District of Ratnapura as 
bounded by "Malwathuhenyaya" State Land.
On the North by :  E. W. Pindinga's Encroachment 
   Land;
On the East by :  U. G. Simon Singho's LDO Land;                    
On the South by :  G. M. Karonisa's 284/3984 Land;
On the West by :  M. G. Piyadasa's Encroachment 
   Land.
 P. S. G. Ruwansiri,
 Divisional Secretary,
 Pelmadulla.
 
13
th  February, 2024.
04-169
PRINTED   AT   THE   DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING,   SRI LANKA.