

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1781
1781
wxl 1"730 - 2011 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 28 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'10'28
No. 1,730 – FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1784
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1788
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 04th November, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 21st
October, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEW ARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.—   Ceylonese Brothers of St. Joseph (Amendment) Bill is published as a Supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 16, 2011.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1782
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1783
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1784
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
MONARAGALA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 28th Nov ember,
2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
09th October, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Moneragala Dambagalla Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  Kandyan) of Madulla and Births and Deaths   General, District Secretariat
  of Pothuliyadda Division Moneragala
Moneragala Thanamalwila Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ do
  Kandyan) of Thanamalwila and Births and   
  Deaths of Hambegamuwa Division
Moneragala Madulla Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ do
  Kandyan) of Madulla and Births and   
  Deaths of Nikawetiya Division
10–579
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
AMPARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1785
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 28th Nov ember,
2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
07th October, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Ampara Lahugala Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  Kandyan) of Panamapattuwa and Births   General, District Secretariat Ampara
  and Deaths of Lahugala Division
10–578
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
PUTTALAM   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1786
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 28th Nov ember,
2011.
E. M. GUNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
07th October, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Puttalam Anamaduwa Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  Kandyan) of Demala Hathpattuwa and   General, District Secretariat Puttalam
  Births and Deaths of Panditha Pattuwa
Division
10–577
–––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  AND  SKILLS
DEVELOPMENT
Department of Technical Education and Training
REGISTRATION OF EXTERNAL RESOURCE PERSONS AS
LECTURERS/INSTRUCTORS-2012 ACADEMIC YEAR
APPLICA TIONS are invited for the registration of External Resource
Persons as Lecturers/Instructors in the Colleges of Technology/
Technical Colleges under this Department by the Directors/
Principals of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges, indicated
in the Schedule given at the end of this notice.
02. Specimen Application and list of subjects for which External
Resource Persons are required, can be obtain from the Director/
Principal of the Colleges of Technology/Technical College where
you wish to serve by sending him a self addressed stamped envelope
(9" x 4"). The top left - hand corner of the envelope should be
marked "External Resource Persons". These particulars may also
be obtained from the Principals in person.
03. The last date for obtaining these particulars will be 30th
November, 2011.
04. General Information for Applicant :
(i) Applicants should note to give all particulars regarding
their qualifications and experience in the Educational,
Professional and Technical fields.
(ii) Fees.– Fees payable to External Resource Persons vary
from Rs. 200 to Rs. 400 per hour in accordance with
their experience, qualifications and level of the course
they are selected to serve.
(iii) Forwarding of Applications.– Applications from officers
in the Public Service should be forwarded through the
Heads of their Departments/Institutes with an
endorsement by the respective Heads to the effect that
their selection of the applicant as an External Resource
Persons will not affect their normal duties.
(iv) Selections.– Selections for these registrations will be may
subsequent to interviews conducted by the Director/
Principals of the respective Colleges. Preference will be
given to applicants with experience in teaching. Please
note that the registration can be terminated according to
requirements of the College by the Director/Principal,
without giving any reasons and at any time during the
Academic Year.
(v) Registered External Resource Persons should conduct
internal examinations in their respective subjects without
additional remuneration.
05. These registration are valid only for the Academic Year 2012
and may be terminated even earlier in accordance with the
requirements.
06. If an applicant wishes to apply for more than one subject,
separate applications should be sent for each such subject. All
applications should be sent to Director/Principal of the appropriate
Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges under registered Post to
reach him before the closing date specified by him.
Dr. C
HITHRAL AMBAWATHTHE,
Director General,
Department of Technical Education and Training.
P . O. Box 557, Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
www.dtet.gov.lk

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1787
LIST OF COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY/TECHNICAL COLLEGES
Serial T echnical Colleges/Colleges of Address District
No. Technology
01 Sri Lanka College of Technology Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10 Colombo
02 Galle College of Technology Kaluwella, Galle Galle
03 Kandy College of Technology Aruppola, Kandy Kandy
04 Jaffna College of Technology Browns Road, Jaffna Jaffna
05 Badulla College of T echnology Greenlane Drive, Badulla Badulla
06 Anuradhapura College of Technology New Town, Anuradhapura Anuradhapura
07 Kurunegala College of T echnology Puttalam Road, Kurunegala Kurunegala
08 Ampara Hardy College of T echnology Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Ampara
09 Ratnapura College of Technology Palm Gardens, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Ratnapura
10 Kegalle Technical College Kachcheri Road, Kegalle Kegalle
11 Ratmalana Technical College Galle Road, Ratmalana Colombo
12 Matara Technical College Meddewatta, Matara Matara
13 Sammanthurai Technical College Ampara Road, Sammanthurai Ampara
14 Kalutara Technical College Kalamulla, Kalutara Kalutara
15 Warakapola Technical College Ambagala Road, Warakapola Kegalle
16 Kuliyapitiya Technical College Pannala Road, Kuliyapitiya Kurunegala
17 Pathadumbara Technical College Navayalatenna, Katugastota Kandy
18 Nuwara-Eliya T echnical College Jayathilaka Mawatha, Nuwara-Eliya Nuwara-Eliya
19 Homagama Technical College Godagama, Homagama Colombo
20 Beliatta Technical College Puwakdandawa, Beliatta Hambantota
21 Hasalaka Technical College Yodha Ela Road, Hasalaka Kandy
22 Dambulla Technical College Mat ale Road, Dambulla Matale
23 Balapitiya Technical College S tation Road, Wandaduwa, Balapitiya Galle
24 Wariyapola Technical College Chilaw Road, Wariyapola Kurunegala
25 Batticaloa Technical College Manchantuduwai, Batticaloa Batticaloa
26 Bandarawela Technical College W ewathenna, Bandarawela Badulla
27 Monaragala Technical College Sirigala, Monaragala Monaragala
28 Gampaha Technical College Werellawatta, Yakkala Gampaha
29 Trincomalee T echnical College Mihindupura, Trincomalee Trincomalee
30 Dehiattakandiya Technical College Mahawanawela, Dehiattakandiya Ampara
31 Matale Technical College M. C. Road, Matale Matale
32 Weerawila Technical College New T own, Weerawila Hambantota
33 Medagama Technical College Med agama (via Bibile) Monaragala
34 Polonnaruwa Technical College Vidyapura, Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa
35 Embilipitiya Technical College New Town, Embilipitiya Ratnapura
36 Vavuniya Technical College Mannar Road, Vavuniya V avuniya
37 Akkaraipattu Technical College Akkaraipattu Ampara
38 Anamaduwa Technical College Gamuda Bhumiya, Thammennagama, Anamaduwa Puttalam
10–667/1
–––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  CHILD  DEVELOPMENT  AND WOMEN'S  AFFAIRS
Recruitment for the Post of Child Rights Promoting Assistant in the Department of Probation and Child Care Services
THE paragraph of 07(a) pertaining to the recruitment of Child Rights Promoting Assistant in the Department of Child Probation a nd
Child Care Services the notified in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,728 dated as 14.10.2011 is hereby
amended as follows :

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1788
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry of Finance and Planning
DEPARTMENT OF VALUATION
POST OF ASSISTANT DISTRICT VALUER CLASS III GRADE II IN
 SRI LANKA VALUATION SERVICE
APPLICA TIONS are invited for the Post of Assistant District
Valuer Class III Grade II in Sri Lanka Valuation Service in the
Department of Valuation. Applications prepared as per specimen
form published below should be sent to reach the Secretary, Ministry
of Finance & Planning, The Secretariat, Colombo- 01, on or before
18.11.2011 Left- hand top of the envelope should be marked as
"Application for Post of Assistant District Valuer Class III Grade
II".
Only the applicants who have completed basic qualifications
according to this notice will be called for the written examination.
Note:-
(i) Applications which are not in the form appended below
will be rejected.
(ii) No allegation that an application form has been lost or
delayed in the post can be considered. Candidates who
delay their applications until the last few days will do
so at their own risk.
02. Terms of engagement and conditions of service:
(i) The posts are permanent and pensionable.
Contributions should be made to the "Widows'/
Widowers' and Orphans' Pension Scheme". The
appointments will be on probation for a period of three
years.
(ii) Attention is invited to General conditions applicable to
appointment in the Public Service laid down at the
beginning of Part 1 Section (11 A) of this Gazatte.
07. Method of Applying :
(a) Applications prepared in A4 size paper, using both sides, according to the specimen form given in the notification should
be sent by registered post, addressed to the Commissioner of Department of Probation and Child Care Services, No.
150A, Nawala Road, Nugegoda to reach him before 15.11.2011.
D. M. S. A
BAY AGUNAWARDANA,
Commissioner,
Department of Probation and Child Care Services.
Department of Probation and Child Care Services,
No. 150, Nawala Road,
Nugegoda,
14th October, 2011.
10–670
(iii) In addition to the language on which officers entered to
the grade III/II of Sri Lanka Valuation Service,
proficiency in other official language should be obtained
within a period of 5 years, according to the provisions
of the Public Administration Circular No: 7/2007.  If
such proficiency in the other official language is not
obtained within a period of 5 years, the increments of
such officers will be differed until such qualifications
are obtained.
03. Salary and Allowances.– According to the Public
Administration Circular No.06/2006 (iv) dated 24.08.2007 this post
carries a salary as per salary code MN-5-2006 A (monthly) (Rs.
16720 – 10 x 320– 11 x 365 – 15 x 450 – 30685). Salary will be paid
in accordance with Public Administration Circular No.06/2006 (iv).
Efficiency bar examination as stipulated in Public Administration
Circular No.06/2006 should be passed. Payment of salary increments
is subject to the passing of efficiency bar examinations.
04. Qualifications: Every candidate must furnish satisfactory
proof that he/she-
(i) is a citizen of Sri Lanka;
(ii) is of excellent moral character with good eyesight and
sound constitution;
(iii) is not less than 18 years and not more than 35 years of
age on 18.11.2011 (as per the relevant provisions of the
Establishment Code, the upper age limit will not apply
to persons already in Govt. Service/Provincial Govt.
Service)
(iv) has obtained a B.Sc. Degree in Estate Management &
Valuation of a recognized University.
05. Method of Recruitment: Applicants who qualify in terms of
the notice of calling for application will be required to sit for an
open competitive examination conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations. Selection will be done on the merits achieved
at the examination. Candidates successful at the examination will be
interviewed by a board of interview appointed by the Public Service
Commission in order to check their basic qualifications.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1789
(i) Competitive examination for selection will be held at
Colombo. The power of postponement or cancellation
of the examination vests with the Secretary to the
Ministry of Finance and Planning on the instructions
given by the Public Service Commission.
(ii) Vacancies will be filled according to the merit order of
marks obtained at the examination.
(iii) The Public Service Commission has the power to fill
part of the vacancies or not to fill any of the vacancies.
(iv) If it is proved that the applicant has no qualifications for
the post the candidature of an applicant could be cancelled
at any time before conducting  the examination, while it
is going on or after the examination.
Further, even after an appointment is given, if it is proved
that anyone has given false information knowingly, he/
she would be dismissed from the service.
Syllabus for the Open Competitive Examination:
This will consists of two question papers.
1st Question Paper:
This paper will consist of not more than 25 multiple choice
questions. Generally, the questions will be based on the
subject areas expected to be covered in a degree programme
leading to B.Sc. Estate Management and Valuation.
Time : 30 minutes.
Minimum marks required to pass: 50%.
2nd Question Paper:
Generally this paper will be based on the subject areas
expected to be covered in a degree programme leading to
B.Sc. Estate Management and Valuation.
Time : 45 minutes to one hour.
Minimum marks required to pass: 50%.
06. Candidates will be required to produce the following
documents when called upon to  do so:
(i) Certificate of Registration of Birth.( N.B.- Baptismal
Certificate of Birth issued for the purpose of the Code
of Regulations for assisted schools will not be accepted)
(ii) Certificates of Educational/Professional qualifications.
(iii) Two certificate of character, one of which should be
from the Director, College Tutor or Professor.
(iv) Certificates of highest examination passed in Sinhala,
Tamil and English.
Note:
(i) No documents or copies of documents should be
attached to the application form.
(ii) Applications of candidates who fail to produce
documents when required to do so will not be
considered.
07. Applications of officers in the State Service/ Provincial
Government Service and State Corporations must be forwarded
through the respective Heads of Institutions.
08. Applications and any other communications relating thereto
must be addressed to the Secretary, Ministry of Finance & Planning,
The Secretariat, Colombo- 01 and not personally to any other
Officer.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance & Planning.
The Secretariat,
Colombo-01.
07
th October, 2011.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
APPLICATION FOR THE OPEN COMPETITIVE
EXAMINATION - 2011  FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST
OF ASSISTANT DISTRICT VALUER CLASS III GRADE II IN
SRI LANKA VALUATION SERVICE
N.B. - The top left-hand corner of the envelope containing the
application should be marked " Application for the Post of Assistant
District Valuer Class III Grade II in the Valuation Department" and
send under registered cover to the Secretary, Ministry of Finance &
Planning, The Secretariat, Colombo- 01.
  (For office use only)
Medium for Examination :
Sinhala – 2, Tamil – 3, English – 4
(Insert the Number within the cage)
01. Name of the Applicant :
 1.1 Name with initials to the end (In English Block Capital)
(Eg. SILVA, A.B) :–––––––––––.
1.2 Name in Full (In English Block Capital) :––––––––––.
1.3 Full Name (Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
02. Private Address (Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
(Change of Address should be informed immediately)
Address for sending Admission :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1790
03. Sex  : (Male – 0, Female – 1)
((Insert the Number within the cage)
 04. Civil Status : (Single – 1, Married – 2)
(Insert the Number within the cage)
05. Nationality :
(Sinhala – 1, Tamil -2, IndianTamil-3,
Muslim – 4, Other – 5)
(Insert the Number within the cage)
06. National Identity Card No.  :
07. Date of Birth :
Year :                         Month :                 Date :
Age to the closing date :
Y ears :           Months :             Dates :
08. Are you a Citizen of Sri Lanka by decent or by registration:
(give details if by registration) :–––––––––––.
09. Highest Examination passed in following subjects:
1. Sinhala
2. Tamil
3. English
10. Educational / Professional Qualifications:
Examination/ Effective University/ Subjects
Degree Date Institute
11. Details of Present Employment and any previous appointment
held:
Designation From To Annual Salary
12. Have you been dismissed from any post in the State Service?
(If so, give particulars) :–––––––––––.
13. Are there any Departmental disciplinary inquiries pending
against you? (If you are already in Public Service) :––––––––.
14. Have you been convicted of any offence by a Court of Law? :
–––––––––.
15. Certification by the Applicant :
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am also aware that if any
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am
liable to be disqualified before selection and be dismissed without
any compensation if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
––––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
16. Certification from the Head of the Institution, if the applicant
is in Public / Provincial  Public / State Corporation or Board
Service :
I certify that Mr./Miss./Ms. .………………….., who forwards
this application, is personally known to me, employed in
…………. (Ministry/Department/State Corporation/ Board),
no pending disciplinary inquiries against him/her and placed
his/her signature in my presence on this ……… day of …………
2011.
He/She can be released from the present employment if selected
to be appointed as an Assistant District Valuer II, in Class III
Grade II of Sri Lanka Valuation Service.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Attester.
Full Name of Attester :–––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Official Address :––––––––––––.
(Affix Official Stamp)
Date:––––––––––––.
10–563
–––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION – 2011
First Efficiency Bar Examination for Posts of the
"Associate Officer" Services Category [Project
Assistant, Management Assistant, Development Assistant,
Planning/Financial Assistant]
IT is hereby notified that the first Efficiency Bar Examination will
be held by the Department of Examinations in the month of February,
2012 in accordance with the provisions in the Schemes of
Recruitment relating to the officers belonging to the above posts.
02. (i) This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations of the Sri Lanka Department of
Examinations and the candidates will be subjected to the
rules and regulations stipulated by him relating to the
conduct of examinations.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1791
(ii) Rules and regulations stipulated for obtaining candidature
are printed separately in this Gazette publication. In the
event of any candidate violating these rules and
regulations he/she will be liable to a punishment to be
imposed by the Commissioner General of examinations.
(iii) Applications can be forwarded for this examination only
by the relevant officers appointed to the above posts
under the Ministry of Education.
03. Examination fees .- Examination fees will not be charged
from candidates appearing for the first sitting for this examination.
Thereafter an examination fee of Rs. 400 will be charged for each
appearance. One margin of the receipt obtained by payment of the
fee at any District/Divisional Secretary's office in the island to
revenue head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examinations, should be firmly affixed at the place which is provided
for in the application. (It will be useful to retain a photocopy of
this receipt with the candidate).
04. Applications.- Application should be made in conformity
with the specimen form appended to this notification. It should be
prepared by using A4 size paper with items 01 to 04 appearing in
the first page and other items in the second page. While preparing
the application the name of the examination indicated at the heading
should be written in English in addition to Sinhala in the Sinhala
applications and in English in addition to Tamil in the Tamil
applications. Although the applciation may be typed and prepared
it should be correctly and legibly filled in candidate's own
handwriting. Duly completed applications should be sent under Sri
Lanka registered post through the relevant Zonal Director of
Education/Head of College of Education/Head of the Department
addressed to the Commissioner General of Examination
(Organization and Foreign Examination Branch) Pelawatta,
Battaramulla to be received before 06.12.2011 name of the
examination should be written on the top left hand corner of the
envelope when forwarding the application. A certified copy of the
letter of appointment should be annexed to the application.
Applications with incomplete information and those received after
the closing date will be rejected and it is advisable for the candidate
to keep a photocopy of the application with him. Further, the
candidate should check whether the perfected application is in
conformity with the specimen application form as otherwise the
application is liable to be rejected.
05. Identity of the Candidates .- Candidates should prove their
identity to the satisfaction of the Supervisor of the Examination
Hall relating to every subject they appear in the examination hall.
Any one of the documents indicated below will be accepted for this
purpose.
1. National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of the
Department of Registration of persons.
2. A valid passport.
Decision of the Commissioner General of Examinations regarding
the candidature of a candidate who fail to submit the above
documents will be the final decision.
06. An admission card and a copy of the examination time table
will be issued by the Commissioner General of examinations to the
candidates whose applications have been accepted. Candidates
appearing for the examination should submit their admission card
with their signatures duly attested, to the Supervisor of the
examination hall. Permission will not be granted to sit the examination
without submitting this admission card. Immediately after the issue
of admission cards to the candidates a newspaper notification will
be published to that effect by the Department of Examinations. If
the admission card is not received even after the lapse of 2 or 3 days
after the publication of such notice candidates should notify the
Department of Examinations, as indicated in the notification. It
will be more useful to notify the Department along with a certified
photocopy of the application retained by the candidate, registration
receipt and a fax number when it is outside Colombo to send the
admission card, along with the letter of request.
07. The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
the officers for whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner of Examinations to enable them appear for the
examination, No traveling expenses will be paid for this purpose.
08. Candidates should answer the question papers in the language
medium they received education or the state language. Permission
will not be granted later to change the language medium applied by
the Candidates. This examination will be held only in Sinhala, Tamil
and English mediums.
09. This examination will be held only in Colombo.
10. Examination procedure.- (Examination relatig to the above
posts will consist of the following subjects).
Subject Subject Marks Time
No.
01. Establishmend Code 01 100 1 ½ hours
02. Financial Regulations 02 100 1 ½ hours
03. English Usage 03 100 1 ½ hours
01. First question paper (Establishment Code)
Provisions in the Establishment Code, Office Management
and Procedure, Chapters I, II, VI, V , VII, VIII, XII, XIV , XV ,
XVI, XXIV, XXV , XXVII, XXVIII, XXX, XXXII in the
Establishment Code.
02. Second question paper (Financial Regulations) Financial
Regulations – Part I (except X).
03. Third question paper (English Usage).
Practical usage at a level between G. C. E. Ordinary Level and
G. C. E. Advanced Level, Communication skills, official letters,
dialogues, applications, interviews, reports, short questions on
comprehension of a passage.
(Officers should obtain a minimum of 40% marks allocated for
each subject for a pass).

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1792
11. Issue of an admission card to a candidate should not be
treated as an acceptance of the fulfillment of his qualifications to
appear for the examination.
12. Regarding any matter for which no provision has been made
by this Circular the decision of the Secretary, Ministry of Education
will be the final.
H. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya, Battaramulla,
2011 October.
Speciman  Application  Form
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINA TION FOR
POSTS OF THE "ASSOCIATE OFFICER" SERVICES
CATEGORY [PROJECT ASSISTANT, MANAGEMENT
ASSISTANT, DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANT, PLANNING/
FINANCIAL ASSISTANT] IN THE MINISTRY OF
EDUCATION – 2011
(For office use)
Language medium for the examination :
(Relevant number should be written within the cage)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
01. Name with initials with initials at the end :––––––––––.
(In English capital letters) Example : SUNIL, J. M. U.
1.1 Names denoted by initials :––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
1.2 Name in full :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 Gender :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Relevant number should be written within the cage)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :
02. Place of work and address :
2.1 Name of working place :––––––––––.
2.2 Official address :––––––––––.
(In English capital letters) (Admission cards will be posted
to this address)
03. Post held at present :––––––––––.
(Certified copy of the appointment letter should be annexed)
3.1 Reference number of the appointment letter :––––––––.
3.2 Date of appointment :––––––––––.
04. Subject/Subjects applied (Please see paragraph 10 in Gazette
Notification) :
Serial Subject Subject No.
No.
01
02
03
I hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are true and
correct and I am entitled to sit this examination in the medium
indicated above and I also agree to abide by the rules and regulations
to be imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations relating
to the conducting of this examination.
–––––––––––,
Signature of candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
Note.- Candidate should sign in the presence of his Head of
Department or an officer authorized to sign on behalf of the
Head of Department.
Receipt should be affixed here (Only if it is relevant) (It will
be useful to retain a photocopy of the receipt)
A
TTESTA TION OF SIGNATURE
I certify that Mr./Mrs.Miss. .................................. who is an
officer in my office/School/College of Education/Teachers’ College/
Teachers’ Centre and who is personally known to me placed his/her
signature on ................ in my presence.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of certifying officer and his official frank.
(Immediate Staff Officer)
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
Certificate of Head of Department :
I certify,
1. that the information furnished by the candidate was verified
2. that a certified copy of the letter of appointment is annexed, and
3. that the officer is eligible to sit this examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Certifying Officer and his official frank.
(Zonal Director of Education/President
(NCOE)/Head of Department)
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
10-589/1

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1793
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Second Efficiency Bar Examination for Posts of the
"Associate Officer" Services Category [Project
Assistant, Management Assistant, Development Assistant,
Planning/Financial Assistant] – 2011
IT is hereby notified that a Efficiency Bar Examination will be held
by the Department of Examinations in the month of February,
2012 in accordance with the provisions in the Schemes of
Recruitment relating to the officers belonging to the above posts.
02. (i) This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations of the Sri Lanka Department of
Examinations and the candidates will be subjected to the
rules and regulations stipulated by him relating to the
conduct of examinations.
(ii) Rules and regulations stipulated for obtaining candidature
are printed separately in this Gazette publication. In the
event of any candidate violating these rules and
regulations he/she will be liable to a punishment to be
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
(iii) Applications can be forwarded for this examination only
by the relevant officers appointed to the above posts
under the Ministry of Education.
03. Examination fees .- Examination fees will not be charged
from candidates appearing for the first sitting for this examination.
Thereafter an examination fee of Rs. 400 will be charged for each
appearance. Rs. 200 will charged for each subject. One margin of
the receipt obtained by payment of the fee at any District/Divisional
Secretary's office in the island to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the
Commissioner General of Examinations, should be firmly affixed at
the place which is provided for in the application. (It will be useful
to retain a photocopy of this receipt with the candidate).
04. Applications.- Application should be made in conformity
with the specimen form appended to this notification. It should be
prepared by using A4 size paper with items 01 to 04 appearing in
the first page and other items in the second page. While preparing
the application the name of the examination indicated at the heading
should be written in English in addition to Sinhala in the Sinhala
applications and in English in addition to Tamil in the Tamil
applications. Although the application may be typed and prepared
it should be correctly and legibly filled in candidate's own
handwriting. Duly completed applications should be sent under Sri
Lanka registered post through the relevant Zonal Director of
Education/Head of College of Education/Head of the Department
addressed to the Commissioner General of Examinations
(Organization and Foreign Examination Branch) Pelawatta,
Battaramulla to be received before 06.12.2011 name of the
examination should be written on the top left hand corner of the
envelope when forwarding the application. A certified copy of the
letter of appointment should be annexed to the application.
Applications with incomplete information and those received after
the closing date will be rejected and it is advisable for the candidate
to keep a photocopy of the application with him. Further, the
candidate should check whether the perfected application is in
conformity with the specimen application form as otherwise the
application is liable to be rejected.
05. Identity of the Candidates .- Candidates should prove their
identity to the satisfaction of the Supervisor of the Examination
Hall relating to every subject they appear in the examination hall.
Any one of the documents indicated below will be accepted for this
purpose :–
1. National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of the
Department of Registration of Persons ;
2. A valid passport.
Decision of the Commissioner General of Examinations regarding
the candidature of a candidate who fail to submit the above
documents will be the final decision.
06. An admission card and a copy of the examination time table
will be issued by the Commissioner General of examinations to the
candidates whose applications have been accepted. Candidates
appearing for the examination should submit their admission card
with their signatures duly attested, to the Supervisor of the
examination hall. Permission will not be granted to sit the examination
without submitting this admission card. Immediately after the issue
of admission cards to the candidates a newspaper notification will
be published to that effect by the Department of Examinations. If
the admission card is not received even after the lapse of 2 or 3 days
after the publication of such notice candidates should notify the
Department of Examinations as indicated in the notification. It will
be more useful to notify the Department along with a certified
photocopy of the application retained by the candidate, registration
receipt and a fax number when it is outside Colombo to send the
admission card, along with the letter of request.
07. The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
the officers for whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner of Examinations to enable them appear for the
examination. No travelling expenses will be paid for this purpose.
08. Candidates should answer the question papers in the language
medium they received education or the state language. Permission
will not be granted later to change the language medium applied by
the Candidates. This examination will be held only in Sinhala, Tamil
and English mediums.
09. This examination will be held only in Colombo.
10. Examination procedure.- (Examination relating to the above
posts will consist of the following subjects) :–
Subject Subject Marks Time
No.
01. Statutory Provisions 01 100 02 hours
on General Education in
Sri Lanka
02. Rules and Regulations 02 100 02 hours
on General Education in
Sri Lanka

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1794
(01) First question paper (Statutory provisions on General
Education in Sri Lanka).
The knowledge of Acts on Education, Children's and
Women's Rights, Acts governing Children and the
knowledge of Acts to be made effective in future will be
tested.
(02) Second question paper (Rules and Regulations on General
Education in Sri Lanka) Comprehension of circulars,
Handbooks and other publications issued on non-formal/
formal and special education will be tested. (officers should
obtain a minimum of 40% marks allocated for each subject
for a pass).
11. Issue of an admission card to a candidate should not be
treated as an acceptance of the fulfillment of his qualifications to
appear for the examination.
12. Regarding any matter for which no provision has been made
by this Circular the decision of the Secretary, Ministry of Education
will be the final.
H. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya, Battaramulla,
October, 2011.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
SECOND EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR
POSTS OF THE "ASSOCIATE OFFICER" SERVICES CATEGORY
[PROJECT ASSISTANT, MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT, DEVELOPMENT
ASSISTANT, PLANNING/FINANCIAL ASSISTANT] IN THE MINISTRY OF
EDUCATION – 2011
(For office use)
Language medium for the examination :
(Relevant number should be written within the cage)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
01. Name with initials with initials at the end :––––––––––.
(In English capital letters) Example : SUNIL, J. M. U.
1.1 Names denoted by initials (In English capital letters) :––––.
1.2 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
1.3 Gender :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Relevant number should be written within the cage)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :
02. Place of work and address :
2.1 Name of working place :––––––––––.
2.2 Official address (In English capital letters) (Admission cards
will be posted to this address) :––––––––––.
03. Post held at present :––––––––––.
(Certified copy of the appointment letter should be annexed)
3.1 Reference number of the appointment letter :––––––––.
3.2 Date of appointment :––––––––––.
04. Subject/Subjects applied (Please see paragraph 10 in Gazette
Notification) :
Serial Subject Subject No.
No.
01
02
I hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are true and
correct and I am entitled to sit this examination in the medium
indicated above and I also agree to abide by the rules and regulations
to be imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations relating
to the conducting of this examination.
–––––––––––,
Signature of candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
Note.- Candidate should sign in the presence of his Head of
Department or an officer authorized to sign on behalf of the
Head of Department.
Receipt should be affixed here (Only if it is relevant) (It will
be useful to retain a photocopy of the receipt)
A
TTESTATION OF SIGNATURE
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. .................................. who is an
officer in my office/School/College of Education/Teachers' College
and who is personally known to me placed his/her signature on
................ in my presence.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of certifying officer and his official frank.
(Immediate Staff Officer).
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1795
Certificate of Head of Department
I certify,
1. That the information furnished by the candidate was verified,
2. That a certified copy of the letter of appointment is annexed, and
3. That the officer is eligible to sit this examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Certifying Officer and his official frank.
(Zonal Director of Education/President
(NCOE)/Head of Department).
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
10-589/2
–––––––––––––
MINISTRY   OF   YOUTH   AFFAIRS  AND   SKILLS
DEVELOPMENT
Department of Technical Education and Training
ADMISSION OF STUDENTS TO COURSES CONDUCTED
AT COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY/TECHNICAL
COLLEGES - 2012
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible candidates for courses
conducted in Colleges of  Technology/Technical Colleges appearing
in this Gazette Notification. Students for admission will be selected
from among the applicants according to the qualifications and merit,
and the place available in each course.
02. The prospective candidates are advised to prepare their own
applications on a 13" x 8 " sheet of paper in accordance with the
“Specimen Application Form” given in this notification. As specified
in item 12 in the specimen application form, each application should
be affixed with a valid Rs. 10  stamp duly cancelled with the candidate’s
usual signature. Duly completed applications should be sent under
Registered Cover to reach the Director/Principal of the
respective College of Technology/Technical College to which
admission is sought to reach him on or before 30.11.2011.
Applicants are advised not to submit applications to this
department or to any officer’s official or personal addresses.
03. The top left hand corner of the envelope should be marked
with the title of the course applied for, and its course code.
 e.g.:- National Certificate in Engineering Draughtsmanship
Course - ETC05
04. Applications received after the prescribed date will be rejected.
05. Candidates are required to fill in their applications carefully
with the Name and Code Number of the Course, College in which the
course to be followed and the Medium of Instruction of the Course
correctly. Requests made subsequently to change the College, Course
or Medium of instruction will not be considered under any
circumstances.
06. Fees will be charged from all those following Part Time and
Evening Courses in the following manner :
(i) Part-time/Evening Certificate Courses (more than one
Year) Rs. 2,000 per year ;
(ii) Part-time/Evening one year and Short Term Courses less
than one year Rs. 1,500 per course.
07. Attention of all Candidates is invited to the Schedule of
Courses appended at the end of this notification, which indicates the
nature of courses, eligibility requirements for each course, the colleges
where the courses are conducted and medium of instruction. The
addresses of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges where the
courses are available are shown in the List of Colleges of Technology/
Technical Colleges.
08. A candidate seeking admission to follow a course in these
colleges should –
(i) be of excellent moral character ;
(ii) be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(iii) have fulfilled all the eligibility requirements for admission
at the time of forwarding the application.
09. Suitable candidates will be selected on the results of an aptitude
test and/or an interview.
10. Any documents or copies thereof, should not be submitted
along with the application. Those candidates who fail to produce the
necessary and acceptable documents to prove their eligibility at the
interview will be deemed disqualified.
11. Subject to a maximum of Rs. 1,000  a month a stipend of
Rs. 50 per day for attendance to classes will be paid to those who
follow any full time course depending on parental income.
About 1,000 Full Time Day Course students from low income
families are paid a bursary of Rs. 2,500  per year.
12. The candidate is held entirely responsible for the authenticity
of his/her documents. Candidates who submit documents that have
been tampered with or forged or not proved in fact will be severely
dealt with.
13. To conduct all courses or Several Courses in this Gazette
notification for the academic year 2012, in Colleges of Technology/
Technical Colleges are subject to discretion of the Director General
of Department of Technical Education and Training.
Candidates can apply for more than one course using
separate application forms.
Dr. C
HITHRAL AMBAW ATTE,
Director General,
Department of Technical Education and Training.
P. O. Box 557,
Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
www.dtet.gov.lk

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1796
List of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges
Serial T echnical College/College of Technology Address District
No.
01. Sri Lanka  College of Technology Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10 Colombo
02. Galle College of Technology Kaluwella, Galle Galle
03. Kandy College of Technology Aruppola, Kandy Kandy
04. Jaffna College of Technology Browns Road, Jaffna Jaffna
05. Badulla College of Technology Greenlane Drive, Badulla Badulla
06. Anuradhapura College of Technology New Town, Anuradhapura Anuradhapura
07. Kurunegala College of T echnology Puttalam Road, Kurunegala Kurunegala.
08. Ampara Hardy College of Technology Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Ampara
09. Ratnapura College of Technology Palm Gardens, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Ratnapura
10. Kegalle Technical College Kachcheri Road, Kegalle Kegalle
11. Ratmalana Technical College Galle Road, Ratmalana Colombo
12. Matara Technical College Meddewatta, Matara Matara
13. Sammanthurai Technical College Ampara Road, Sammanthurai Ampara
14. Kalutara Technical College Kalamulla, Kalutara, Kalutara
15. Warakapola Technical College Ambagala Road, Warakapola Kegalle
16. Kuliyapitiya Technical College Pannala Road, Kuliyapitiya Kurunegala
17. Pathadumbara Technical College Navayalatenna, Katugastota Kandy
18. Nuwara-Eliya Technical College Jayathilaka Mawatha, Nuwara - Eliya, Nuwara-Eliya
19. Homagama T echnical College Godagama, Homagama, Colombo
20. Beliatta Technical College Puwakdandawa, Beliatta Hambantota
21. Hasalaka Technical College Yodha Ela Road, Hasalaka Kandy
22. Dambulla Technical College Matale Road, Dambulla Matale
23. Balapitiya Technical College S tation Road, Wandaduwa, Balapitiya Galle
24. Wariyapola Technical College Chilaw Road, Wariyapola Kurunegala
25. Batticaloa Technical College Manchantuduwai, Batticaloa Batticaloa
26. Bandarawela Technical College W ewathenna, Bandarawela, Badulla
27. Monaragala Technical College Sirigala, Monaragala Monaragala
28. Gampaha T echnical College Werellawatta, Yakkala Gampaha
29. Trincomalee T echnical College Mihindupura, Trincomalee Trincomalee
30. Dehiattakandiya Technical College Mahawanawela, Dehiattakandiya Ampara
31. Matale Technical College M. C. Road, Matale Matale
32. Weerawila T echnical College New Town, Weerawila Hambantota
33. Medagama Technical College Medagama, (via Bibile) Monaragala
34. Polonnaruwa  Technical College V idyapura, Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa
35. Embilipitiya T echnical College New Town, Embilipitiya Ratnapura
36. V avuniya Technical College Mannar Road, Vavuniya V avuniya
37. Akkaraipattu Technical College Akkaraipattu Ampara
38. Anamaduwa Technical College Gamuda Bhumiya, Thammennagama, Anamaduwa Puttalam
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY/TECHNICAL COLLEGES ACADEMIC YEAR – 2012
For Official use only
(Applications must be directed to the Director/Principal of the relevant College of Technology/Technical
College. Addresses of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges are given in the List of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges)
(Each Course applied for should be in a separate application)
01. Name of the College of Technology/Technical College :———.
02. Name of the Course applied :———.   (Full Time Day/ Evening/Part Time)
Medium :———. Code No. :———.
03. Applicant’s Name with Initials :———.
04. Names indicated by Initials :———.
05. Permanent Address :———.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1797
06. Contact No. :———. E-mail :———.
07. National Identity Card No. :———.
08. District :———. Electorate :———.
Gramaniladari Division :———.
09. Date of Birth :  Year :———,  Month :———, Date :———.
(Age as at 01.01.2012)
Years :———,  Months :———, Days :———.
10. Male/Female :———.
11. Educational Qualifications :
(A) G. C. E. (O/L) Results (Not more than two attempts)
Index No. Year Subjects Grade
(B) G. C. E. (A/L) Results (In one attempt) :–
Index No. Year Subjects Grade
(C) Number of G. C. E. (A/L) sittings :———.
(D) Highest grade/year passed if the applicant has not obtained the qualifications mentioned in (A) above :-
 Grade :———,       Year :———.
12. Only for Evening and Part Time Courses :
To be filled only for courses for which employment is a requirement
12.1 Applicant’s Name :———.
12.2 Post held at present and the Date of Appointment to the Post :———.
If self employed, the type of employment
12.3 Work place and its address :———.
12.4 Employee Provided Fund No. :———.
Employee Trust Fund No. :———.
I certify that the above applicant is an employee in this Institute/Office,
12.5 Name of the Employer :———.
12.6 Designation :———.
12.7 Signature  :———. Official Seal :
12.8  Date :———.
13. Applicant’ s Declaration :
I hereby certify that the information given in this application is true to my knowledge , and I have obtained the qualifications required
for the course applied for. Further I agree with the scheme of selection of students to Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleg es and to
accept the decision of the Director General of the Department of Technical Education and Training as final.
––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :———.
Stamp to the value of Rs. 10 should be affixed here and cancelled by signing on it.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1798
SCHEDULE OF COURSES CONDUCTED IN COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY/TECHNICAL COLLEGES  –  2012
Engineering Technician Studies Courses :
Full Time Courses
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium
01 ETB 03 National Diploma in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects Sinhala Medium
Agriculture including Agriculture, with four Credit passes Dambulla,
in one sitting. The four credit passes should be Kuliyap itiya
for the following subjects:
Full Time Day First Language, Mathematics, Science and Social
Two Years Studies or any of the following subjects :–
Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry,
Food Science and Food Technology, Fresh
Water (inland) Bio Resource Technology,
Oceanic (Marine) Bio Resource Technology ;
or
Should possess at least Three Ordinary passes
 in one sitting at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination.
The subjects should be any three of the following :
Biology, Zoology, Botany, Chemistry, Physics,
Agriculture
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.01.2012.
02 ETC 01 National Certificate for 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
English Medium
Industrial Technicians not more than two sittings with four Credit Kandy,
(Civil Engineering) passes including  Science, Mathematics, Medium Ratmalana
Language and English Language. At least five (5)
Full Time Day subjects should be passed in one sitting  ;
Two Years or
Merit pass in any National Certificate in
Engineering  Craft Practice 2 year course ;
or
Pass in any National Certificate in Engineering
Craft  Practice Course with Credit passes in
Science and Mathematics at G . C. E. (O/L).
Candidates will be selected by an aptitude test.
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.01.2012.
03 ETC 02 National Certificate for 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
English Medium
Industrial Technicians not more than two sittings with four Credit Kandy,
(Electrical & Electronic passes  including Science, Mathematics, Medium Ratmalana
Engineering) Language and English Language. At least five (5)
subjects should be passed in one sitting ;
Full Time Day or
Two Years Merit pass in any National Certificate in
Engineering Craft Practice 2 year course ;
or
Pass in any National Certificate in Engineering
Craft Practice Course with Credit passes in
Science and Mathematics at G. C. E. (O/L).
Candidates will be selected by an aptitude test.
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as
on 01.01.2012.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1799
04 ETC 03 National Certificate for 1. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in English Medium
Industrial Technicians not more than two sittings with four Credit Kandy,
(Mechanical passes including Science, Mathematics, Medium Ratmalana
Engineering) Language and English Language. At least five (5)
subjects  should be passed in one sitting ;
Full Time Day or
Two Years Merit pass in any National Certificate in
Engineering  Craft Practice 2 year course ;
or
Pass in any National Certificate in Engineering
Craft Practice Course with Credit passes in
Science and Mathematics at G. C. E. (O/L).
Candidates will be selected by an aptitude test.
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as
on 01.01.2012
05 ETC 05 National Certificate 1. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Sinhala Medium
in Engineering in not more than two sittings. Ampara,
Draughtsmanship Anamaduwa,
The six (6) subjects should be - Anuradhapura,
Full Time Day Badulla,
One Year ( a) Sinhala/Tamil/English ; Balapitiya,
(b) Mathematics and Science ; Bandarawela,
(c) Three other Subjects Beliatta,
Dambulla,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Dehiattakandiya,
on 01.01.2012. Galle, Gampaha,
Hasalaka,
Homagama,
Kalutara, Kandy,
Kegalle,
Kuliyapitiya,
Kurunegala,
Maradana,
Matale,
Moneragala,
Nuwara Eliya,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Warakapola,
Weerawila,
Embilipitiya,
Trincomalee,
Matara
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya,
Akkaraipattu,
Jaffna
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1800
06 ETC 07 National Certificate in 1. Passes in four (4) subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Sinhala Medium
Jewellery Manufacture Examination in one sitting ; Beliatta,
or Maradana
Full Time Day One Year should have passed year 09 and experience in
the relevant field.
(Course with National
V ocational 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as
Qualification-NVQ) on 01.01.2012
07 ECC 40 Certificate in Landscaping 1. Should have passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination ;
Sinhala Medium
for Junior Supervisors or Ampara,
Have passed the National Certificate in Anuradhapura,
Full Time Day Landscaping  Technology Cr aft Level III Course Beliatta,
One Year conducted in any of the Vocational Training Dehiattakandiya,
Centers attached to VTA. Galle, Kandy
Kegalle, Matale,
2. Age should be between 18 and 35 years as Ratmalana,
on 01.01.2012. Warakapola
Preference will be given to those below 25 years. Tamil Medium
Akkaraipattu
08 ETC 04 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects English Medium
Technology (Quantity with four (04) Credit passes including Science, Akkaraipattu,
Surveying) Mat hematics and Medium Language in one sitting. Galle, Batticaloa,
Jaffna, Kandy
Should have at least an Ordinary Pass for English Kegalle, Ratmalana,
Full Time Day Language. Ratnapura,
One Year Preference will be given to the candidates those Anuradhapura,
who have followed Pure Maths/ Badulla, Gampaha,
Applied Maths or Combined Maths and/or Kurunegala,
a Hard Technology subject in G. C. E.  (A/L) Matara, Maradana,
Examination W arakapola,
Beliatta, Balapitiya,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Sammanthurai
on 01.01.2012.
PART TIME COURSES
09 ETC  01.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in Sinhala Medium
Technology (Civil not more than two sittings. Ampara,
Engineering) Anuradhapura,
Six (6) subjects should be – Badulla, Balapitiya,
Beliatta,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language ; Dambulla,
Part Time ( b) Mathematics and Science ; Embilipitiya,
Three years ( c) Three other Subjects ; or equivalent qualifications. Galle, Gampaha,
Hasalaka,
(Restricted to those 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as Homagama,
employed in the on 01.01.2012 Kalutara, Kandy,
relevant field.) Kegalle, Kurunegala,
Maradana,
(Course with National Matara,
V ocational Qualification Moneragala,
– NVQ Level 5) Nuwara-Eliya,
Matale,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1801
Polonnaruwa,
Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Warakapola,
Weerawila,
Trincomalee,
Anamaduwa,
Bandarawela
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Akkaraipattu,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya, Jaffna
10 ETC 02.1 National Certificate in 1. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Technology (Electrical in not more than two sittings. Ampara,
and Electronic Engineering) Six  (6) subjects should be :- Anuradhapura,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language Badulla,
Part time Three Years ( b) Mathematics and Science Balapitiya,
(c) Three other Subjects ; or equivalent qualification Galle, Gampaha,
(Restricted to those or Homagama,
employed in the Kalutara, Kandy,
relevant field.) Have passed the National Certificate in Engineering Kegalle,
Craft Practice Full time Day 2 year-Electrician Kurunegala,
course or Radio, TV and Electronics course Maradana,
conducted at Technical Colleges under the Matara,
Department of Technical Education and Training Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
2. Age should not be less than  17 years as Warakapola,
on 01.01.2012 Trincomalee
Tamil Medium
Akkaraipattu,
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai,
Jaffna,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya
11 ETC 03.1 National Certificate in 1. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
Sinhala Medium
Technology (Mechanical not more t han two sittings. Anuradhapura,
Engineering) Six (06) subjects should be :- Galle, Gampaha,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language Homagama,
Part Time Three Years ( b) Mathematics and Science Kandy,
(c) Three other Subjects ; or equivalent qualifications Kegalle,
(Restricted to those or Kurunegala,
employed in the Maradana,
relevant field.) Have passed the National Certificate in Engineering Matara,
Craft Practice Full time Day 2 year-Motor Vehicle Ratmalana,
Mechanic/General Machinist/Fitter Machinist Warakapola
course conducted at Technical Colleges under the
Department of Technical Education and Training
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as
Tamil Medium
on 01.01.2012 Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
Akkaraipattu
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1802
12 ETC 04.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects Sinhala Medium
Technology (Quantity in not more than two sittings. Anuradhapura,
Surveying) Six (06) subjects should be :- Badulla,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language Balapitiya
Part Time Three Years (b) Mathematics and Science Beliatta,
(c) Three other Subjects ; or equivalent Galle, Gampaha,
(Restricted to those qualifications Homagama,
employed in the 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as Kalutara, Kandy,
relevant field.) on 01.01.2012 Kegalle,
Kurunegala,
Maradana,
Matara,
Monaragala,
Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Trincomalee,
Warakapola
Tamil Medium
Akkaraipattu,
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya
English Medium
Maradana
Engineering Craft Studies Courses
F
ULL TIME COURSES
01 ECC  08 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft with passes in Mathematics and Medium Anuradhapura,
Practice-Electronics Language in not more than two sittings Badulla,
Bandarawela,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Beliatta,
Two Years 01.01.2012. Those under 22 years are given Galle, Gampaha,
preference. Hasalaka, Kalutara,
Kandy, Kegalle,
Kurunegala,
(Course with Maradana,
National Matara
V ocational Nuwara-Eliya,
Qualification- Pol onnaruwa,
NVQ) Rathmalana,
Rathnapura,
Warakapola,
Tamil Medium
Maradana, Jaffna,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is available  and Medium

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1803
02 ECC 10 National Certificate in 1. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft with passes in Mathematics and Medium Anuradhapura,
Practice-Fitter Language in not more than two sittings Beliatta, Dambulla,
Machinist Embilipitiya, Galle,
Hasalaka, Kandy,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Kegalle,
Two Years 01.01.2012. Those under 22 years are given Kuliyapitiya,
preference. Kurunegala,
(Course with Kalutara, Matara,
National V ocational P olonnaruwa,
Qualification- Rathnapura,
NVQ) Warakapola,
Nuwara-Eliya,
Badulla,
Rathmalana,
Homagama,
Gampaha
Tamil Medium
Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
Vavuniya
03 ECC 13 National Certificate in 1. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft with passes in Mathematics and Medium Language Ampara,
Practice-Industrial in not more than two sittings ; Anuradhapura,
Electrician or Embilipitiya,
Have passed the House Wiring Course Gampaha, Hasalaka,
Full Time Day Conducted in any V ocational Training Centers Homagama,
Two Years attached to VTA Kuliyapitiya,
Maradana,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Nuwara-Eliya,
01.01.2012. Those under 22 years are given Polonnaurwa
(Course with preference. Ratmalana,
National Trincomalee,
Vocational Pathadumbara,
Qualification- W eerawila, Matale,
NVQ) Monaragala, Kandy,
Kurunegala,
Kalutara, Galle,
Balapitiya, Matara,
Beliatta,
Rathnapura, Kegalle,
Badulla,
Bandarawela
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Sammanthurai
04 ECC 18 National Certificate in 1. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in Ampara,
Practice-Motor not more than two sittings Anuradhapura,
Vehicle Mechanic Badulla,
Bandarawela,
Beliatta,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is available  and Medium

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1804
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Dambulla,
Two Years 01.01.2012. Those under 22 years are given Dehiattakandiya,
preference. Embilipitiya, Galle,
Gampaha, Hasalaka,
Homagama
Kalutara, Kandy,
Kegalle,
(Course with National Kuliyapitiya,
V ocational Kurunegala
Qualification - NVQ) Maradana, Matara,
Moneragala,
Nuwara Eliya,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Warakapola, Matale,
Trincomalee
Tamil Medium
Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee
05 ECC 02 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft or Ampara
Practice- Gas and Arc Have passed the Welder Course conducted in Anamaduwa,
Welder any of the Vocational Training Centres attached Anuradhapura,
to VTA Badulla, Balapitiya
Full Time Day Bandarawela,
One Year 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Beliatta, Dambulla
01.01.2012. Those under 22 years are given Dehiattakandiya,
preference Embilipitiya, Galle,
Gampaha, Hasalaka,
(Course with National Homagama,
V ocational Kalutara,
Qualification - NVQ) Kandy,  Kegalle,
Kuliyapitiya,
Kurunegala,
Maradana, Matara,
Moneragala,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Trincomalee,
Warakapola,
Wariyapola,
Weerawila,
Pathadumbara,
Nuwara-Eliya
Tamil Medium
Jaffna,
Vavuniya
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is available  and Medium

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1805
06 ECC 09 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft or Ampara,
Practice- Plumber Have passed the Plumbing Course conducted Anuradhapura,
in any of the Vocational Training Centres Dehiattakandiya,
Full Time Day attached to VTA Embilipitiya,
One Year Gampaha,
2. Age should be between 17and 25 years as on Hasalaka,
(Course with National 01.01.2012. Those under 22 years are given Homagama,
Vocational preference Maradana,
Qualification - NVQ) Nuwara-Eliya,
Polonnaruwa,
Anamaduwa,
Ratnapura,
Monaragala, Matara,
Beliatta, Kegalle,
Warakapola,
Balapitiya,
Rathmalana, Galle,
Badulla,
Kuliyapitiya
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Vavuniya,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee, Jaffna
07 ECC05 National Certificate in 1. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft with passes in Mathematics, Science and Anuradhapura,
Practice-Refrigeration Medium Language in not more than two sittings. Bandarawela,
and Air Conditioning Beliatta,
Mechanic 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Embilipitiya, Galle,
on 01.01.2012. Those under 22 years are Gampaha,
given preference. Homagama,
Full Time Day Kalutara, Kandy,
One Year Kegalle, Matara,
Polonnaruwa,
(Course with National Ratnapura,
Vocational Maradana, Hasalaka
Qualification - NVQ) Rathmalana,
Kuliyapitiya
Tamil Medium
Akkaraipattu,
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee
08 ECC06 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 :
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft or Anuradhapura,
Practice-Wood Machinist have passed the Carpenter Course conducted in any Dehiattakandiya,
of the V ocational Training Centres attached to VTA. Embilipitiya,
Full Time Day Hasalaka,
One Year Homagama,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Kuliyapitiya,
(Course with National on 01.01.2012. Those under 22 years are Polonnaruwa,
Vocational given preference. Ratnapura,
Qualification - NVQ) Wariyapola,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is available  and Medium

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1806
Anamaduwa,
Nuwara-Eliya,
Maradana,
Rathmalana,
Dambulla,
Bandarawela, Galle,
Balapitiya, Matara,
Beliatta, Kegalle,
Warakapola,
Badulla, Monaragala
Tamil Medium
Akkaraipattu,
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai
09 ECC14 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 ;
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft or Anamaduwa,
Practice - Construction have passed the Masonry Course conducted in any Anuradhapura,
Craftsman of the V ocational Training Centres attached to VTA Dehiattakandiya,
Embilipitiya,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years Wariyapola,
One Year as on 01.01.2012. Those under 22 years are Gampaha,
given preference. Ratnapura,
(Course with National Polonnaruwa,
V ocational Kuliyapitiya,
Qualification - NVQ) Rathmalana,
Homagama, Galle,
Balapitiya, Matara,
Beliatta, Kegalle,
Warakapola,
Badulla,
Monaragala,
Dambulla
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai.
10 ECS21 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 09.
Sinhala Medium
Aluminium Fabrication Anuradhapura,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Gampaha,
Full Time Day on 01.01.2012. Homagama, Kandy,
Six Months Kurunegala,
Maradana, Matara,
(Course with National Matale, Ratmalana,
V ocational Warakapola,
Qualification - NVQ) Balapitiya, Beliatta
Tamil Medium
Jaffna
11 ECC22 Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects in Sinhala Medium
Electrical Trade not more than two sittings Anamaduwa,
Dehiattakandiya,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Ratnapura,
One Year 01.01.2012. Those under 22 years are given Wariyapola.
preference.
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is available  and Medium

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1807
(Course with National Tamil Medium
Vocational  Jaffna
Qualification - NVQ)
12 ECS26 Certificate in Motor 1. Should have passed Year 09. Sinhala Medium
Cycle and Scooter Anuradhapura,
Repairing 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Rathmalana,
on 01.01.2012. Beliatta,
Full Time Day Dehiattakandiya,
One Year Kegalle,
Kurunegala, Matale,
(Course with National Pathadumbara,
Vocational Bandarawela
Qualification - NVQ)
Tamil Medium
Jaffna, Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai,
Vavuniya
13 MCC08 Certificate in Footwear 1. Should have passed Year 09.
Sinhala Medium
Making Ampara,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Embilipitiya,
Full Time Day 01.01.2012. Medagama
One Year
(Course with National
Vocational
Qualification - NVQ)
14 ECC21 Certificate in House 1. Should have passed Year 10.
Sinhala Medium
Hold Electrical Anuradhapura,
Appliances Repairing 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Gampaha,
01.01.2012. Those under 22 years are given Pathadumbara,
Full Time Day Preference. Trincomalee,
Six Months Balapitiya,
Dehiattakandiya
(Course with National
Vocational
Tamil Medium
Qualification - NVQ) Trincomalee,
Sammanthurai,
Vavuniya,
Akkaraipattu
15 ECC26 Certificate in Machining 1. Should have passed Year 10.
Sinhala Medium
Anuradhapura,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Bandarawela,
One Year 01.01.2012. Those under 22 years are given Beliatta, Gampaha,
Preference. Embilipitiya,
(Course with National Homagama, Kandy
Vocational Kalutara,
Qualification - NVQ) Maradana,
Ratmalana,
Rathnapura,
Dambulla
Tamil Medium
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Akkaraipattu
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is available  and Medium

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1808
16 ECC20 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium
Automobile Painting Kurunegala
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
Full Time Day 01.01.2012. Those under 22 years are given
Six Months  Preference.
(Course with National
V ocational Qualification -
NVQ)
17 ECC17 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 10.
Sinhala Medium
Automobile Tinkering Kurunegala
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
Full Time Day 01.01.2012. Those under 22 years are given
Six Months Preference.
(Course with National
V ocational
Qualification - NVQ)
18 MCS08 Certificate in Furniture 1. Should have passed Year 09.
Sinhala Medium
Wood Carving Kurunegala
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
Full Time Day 01.01.2012.
Six Months
19 ECS24 Certificate in Foundry 1. Should have passed Year 10.
Sinhala Medium
Practice Kandy
2. Age should be betwen 17 and 25 years as
Full Time Day on 01.01.2012
Six Months
20 ECS36 Certificate in Farm 1. Should have passed Year 09.
Sinhala Medium
Machinery Anuradhapura,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on W eerawila
Full Time Day 01.01.2012 Dehiattakandiya
Six Months
21 ECC19 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects with
Sinhala Medium
Building Construction passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in not Balapitiya,
Technology - Craft more than two sittings. Warakapola,
Practice - Multi Skill Kalutara, Beliatta,
Kegalle, Badulla,
Bandarawela,
Moneragala, Kandy,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Dambulla,
One Year 01.01.2012. Those under 22 years are given Kurunegala, Galle,
preference. Matara
Tamil Medium
Jaffna, Trincomalee
22 ECC24 Certificate in Buidling 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium
Painting 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Beliatta
01.01.2012. Those under 22 years are given
Full Time Day - One Year preference.
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is available  and Medium

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1809
23 ECC 16 Certificate in Fruits and 1. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects Sinhala Medium
Vegetable Processor with passes in Mathematics, Science, Sinhala Kandy
and English in not more than two sittings ;
Full Time Day - One Year Should have a credit pass in Science.
(Course with National 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
V ocational Qualification – 01.01.2012.
NVQ)
PART TIME COURSES
24 ECC33.1 Certificate in Tractor 1. Should have passed Year 09. Sinhala Medium
Mechanic Dehiattakandiya,
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Hasalaka
Part Time - One Year 01.01.2012.
Business Studies Courses
FULL TIME COURSES
01 BSC03 Diploma in Accounting 1. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six (6) subjects Sinhala Medium
with passes in Mathematics and G. C. E (A/L) Maradana, Galle,
Full Time Day Two Years Examination in Two (2) subjects with passes in Kandy
one (1) of
(i) Accounting
(ii) Combined Mathes
(iii) Business Studies
(iv) Economics
(v) Business Statistic
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.01.2012
02 BSC04 National Certificate for 1. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects with Sinhala Medium
Accounting passes in Mathematics and Medium Language Anuradhapura,
Technicians in one  sitting. Badulla,
Balapitiya,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Beliatta, Dambulla,
Two Years 01.01.2012. Ga lle, Hasalaka,
Homagama,
Students who succesfully Kalutara, Kandy,
complete this course are Kegalle, Kuliyapitiya,
eligible to follow the Kurunegala,
following courses, conducted Maradana, Matale,
by the Sri Lanka Institute Matara,
of Advanced Technical Nuwara Eliya,
Education :– Polonnaruwa,
* Higher National Diploma Ratnapura, Ampara,
in Accountancy. Warakapola,
* Higher National Diploma Gampaha,
 in Management. Monaragala,
* National Diploma in Trincomalee
Business Studies.
* National Diploma in
Tamil Medium
Business & Finance. Akkaraipattu,
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya, Maradana
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is available  and Medium

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1810
03 BSC06 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with English Medium
Secretarial Practice (English) passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in not Badulla,
more than two sittings : Should have a Credit pass Balapitiya,
Full Time Day in English. Batticaloa,
One Year (i) Competency in spoken & written English will be Kalutara, Kandy,
considered. Kuliyapitiya,
Students who (ii) Candidates will have to sit a written test if so Kurunegala,
successfully complete this decided by the authorities. Maradana,
course are eligible to follow (iii) Female candidates are preferred. Warakapola, Jaffna,
the National Diploma in Homagala,
Secretarial Practice Course, 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Gampaha, Galle,
conducted  by the Sri Lanka 01.01.2012. Preference will be given to those Matara, Beliatta,
Institute of Advanced under 22 years. Kegalle, Matale,
Technical  Education Anuradhapura,
Akkaraipattu
04 BSC13 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with
Sinhala Medium
Shorthand, Typewriting passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in not Ampara,
and Computing-Sinhala more than two sittings ; Anuradhapura,
Should have a Credit pass in Sinhala. Beliatta, Dambulla
Dehiattakandiya,
Full Time Day Galle, Kalutara,
One Year 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Kandy,
01.01.2012. Preference will be given to those under Kuliyapitiya,
22 years. Maradana,
Medagama,
Moneragala,
Pathadumbara,
Trincomalee,
Kegalle, Warakapola
05 BSC14 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in not
Tamil Medium
Shorthand, Typewriting more than two sittings with passes in Medium Batticaloa,
and Computing-Tamil Language and Mathematics ; Maradana,
Should have a Credit pass for Tamil Language. Sammanthurai,
Full Time Day Trincomalee,
One Year 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Vavuniya, Jaffna,
01.01.2012. Preference will be given to those under Akkaraipattu
22 years.
06 BSC05 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with English Medium
Marketing passes in Mathematics, Medium Language Akkaraipattu,
and English Language in one sitting. Batticaloa, Galle,
Full Time Day Jaffna, Kandy,
One Year 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Maradana, Matale,
01.01.2012. Matara, Ratnapura,
Kuliyapitiya,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Kegalle, Warakapola
P
ART TIME COURSES
07 BSC 04.1 National Certificate for 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination is Six (06) Subjects in Sinhala Medium
Accounting not more than two sittings with a pass for Ampara,
Technicians Mathematics. Moneragala,
Warakapola
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is available  and Medium

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1811
Part Time - Two Years 2. Age should not be less than 18 years as
(Restricted to on 01.01.2012.
employees in an office
of a recognized firm,
Tamil Medium
Government Trincomalee,
Department / Vavuniya,
Corporation or Local Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Authority or any other Akkaraipattu
recognized Institute.)
08 BSC 14.1 National Certificate in 1. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
Tamil Medium
Shorthand, not more than two sittings with passes in Medium Akkaraipattu,
Typewriting and Language and Mathematics ; Should have a Credit Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Computing - Tamil Pass for Tamil Language. Sammanthurai,
Vavuniya
Part Time - One Year
(Restricted to those 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as
who are engaged in on 01.01.2012.
Stenography/Typing or
in an allied field)
General Studies Courses
Full Time Courses
01 ESC01 National Certificate in 1. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects
English Medium
English for Commerce, including English in not more than two sittings. Akkaraipattu,
Industry and Further Ampara,
Education 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Anamaduwa,
01.01.2012 Anuradhapura,
Full Time - Day Badulla, Balapitiya,
One Year Bandarawela,
Batticaloa, Beliatta,
Students who successfully Dambulla,
complete this course are Dehiattakandiya,
eligible to follow the Embilipitiya, Galle,
National Diploma in English Gampaha, Hasalaka,
Course, conducted by the Homagama,
Sri Lanka Institute of Kalutara, Kandy,
Advanced Technical Kegalle,
Education Kuliyapitiya,
Kurunegala,
Maradana
Matale, Matara,
Medagama,
Moneragala,
Nuwara Eliya,
Pathadumbara,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratnapura,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya,
Warakapola,
Wariyapola,
Weerawila,
Ratmalana, Jaffna
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is available  and Medium

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1812
02 MCC09 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in Japanese Medium
Japanese Language not more than two sittings Galle
Full Time - Day 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as
One Year on 01.01.2012.
Those under 22 years are given Preference.
03 MCC07 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) examination in Six (6) subjects in Korean Medium
Korean Language not more than two sittings Galle, Kegalle
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as Maradana, Matara,
Full Time - Day  on 01.01.2012. Beliatta,
One Year Those under 22 years are given preference. Embilipitiya,
Warakapola, Kandy,
Kuliyapitiya
04 ECC23 Certificate for Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects with
Sinhala Medium
Application Assistants passes in Mathematics, Medium Language and Ampara, Balapitiya,
English Language in not more than two sittings. Beliatta,
Full Time 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Embilipitiya, Galle,
Three Months on 01.01.2012. Gampaha, Kalutara,
(Course with National W eerawila,
V ocational Qualification Maradana, Matara,
- NVQ) Medagama,
Hasalaka, Dambulla,
Nuwara-Eliya,
Kuliyapitiya,
Wariyapola,
Anuradhapura,
Polonnaruwa,
Kurunegala,
Anamaduwa,
Dehiattakandiya
Tamil Medium
Akkaraipattu,
Jaffna, Sammanturai
05 ECC 03 Certificate in Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects with Sinhala Medium
Hardware passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Language Galle, Warakapola,
and English Language in not more than two sittings. Kuliy apitiya
Full Time Day Three 2. Should have completed basic Computer Science
Months Course Tamil Medium
(Course with National 3. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Akkaraipattu
V ocational Qualification - 01.01.2012
NVQ)
06 ECC 04 Certificate in Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects with Sinhala Medium
Networking passes in Mathematics, Science Medium Language Galle, Warakapola
and English Language in not more than two sittings
Full Time Day Three 2. Should have completed basic Computer Science Course Tamil Medium
Months 3. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Akkaraipattu
(Course with National 01.01.2012.
V ocational Qualification -
NVQ)
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is available  and Medium

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1813
Part Time Courses
07 ESC 01.1 National Certificate in 1. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects in English Medium
English for Commerce, not mo re than two sittings. Akkaraipattu,
Industry and Further (Special consideration will be given to those A mpara, Anamaduwa,
Education. employed in a supervisory capacity in an Industrial, Anuradhapura,
Commercial or any similar establishment or those Badulla, Balapitiya,
Part Time - Two Years who were employed in a similar capacity at an earlier Bandarawela,
date and those who may qualify for promotion after Batticaloa, Beliatta,
successful completion of the Course) Dambulla,
A basic knowledge of English is essential. Dehiattakandiya,
Embilipitiya, Galle,
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Gampaha, Hasalaka,
01.01.2012. Homagama, Kalutara,
Kandy, Kegalle,
Kuliyapitiya,
Kurunegala,
Maradana, Matale,
Matara, Medagama,
Moneragala, Nuwara-
Eliya, Pathadumbara,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratnapura,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya,
Warakapola,
Wariyapola,
Weerawila,
Ratmalana, Jaffna
08 ECC 03.1 Certificate in Computer 1. G. C. E. (O/L) examination in Six (6) subjects with
Sinhala Medium
Hardware passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Language Galle, Maradana,
and English Language in not more than two sittings. Warakapola,
Part Time - Three Months 2. Should have completed basic Computer Science CourseDehiattakandiya,
3. Age should not be less than 17 years as Kandy
(Course with National on 01.01.2012.
V ocational Qualification -
NVQ)
(Restricted to those
employed in the relevant
field)
09 ECC 04.1 Certificate in Computer 1. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with
Sinhala Medium
Networking passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Language Galle, Maradana,
and English Language in not more than two sittings Warakapola, Kandy
Part Time - Three Months 2. Should have completed basic Computer
Science Course
(Course with National 3. Age should not be less than 17 years as on
V ocational Qualification - 01.01.2012
NVQ)
(Restricted to those employed
in the relevant field)
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is available  and Medium

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'10'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.10.2011
1814
Special Courses
Full Time Courses
01  BSC 16 Receptionist 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects English Medium
with passes in Mathematics and Medium Galle, Maradana,
Full Time Day Language  in not more than two sittings. Should Matara,
One Year have a Credit pass in English. Anuradhapura
(i) Competency in Spoken and Written
English will be considered.
(ii) Candidates will have to sit a written test
if so decided by the authorities.
(iii) Female candidates are preferred.
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.01.2012.
Preference will be given to those under 22 years.
02 ECC 12 Information 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with Sinhala Medium
Communication passes in Mathematics, Medium Language and Kegalle, Warakapola,
Technology Technician English Language in not more than two sittings Badulla,
Bandarawela,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Moneragala, Kandy,
Six Months 01.01.2012. Pathadumbara,
Matale, Hasalaka,
Beliatta, Rathnapura
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya
03 ECC 07 Steward 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with Sinhala Medium
passes in Mathematics in not more than two sittings. Mradana, Kandy,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Anuradhapura
Three Months 01.01.2012
Tamil Medium
Trincomalee,
04 ECC 01 Construction site 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with Sinhala Medium
Supervisor passes in Mathematics, Medium Language and Galle, Maradana,
English Language in not more than two sittings. Rathmalana,
Full Time Day -One Year 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Homagama, Kalutara,
01.01.2012 Balapitiya, Matara,
Beliatta, Rathnapura,
Embiliptiya,
Warakapola,
Monaragala, Kandy,
Hasalaka,
Anuradhapura,
Polonnaruwa,
Kurunegala,
Kuliyapitiya,
Dehiattakandiya,
Wariyapola,
Anamaduwa
Tamil Medium
Akkaraipattu,
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya
10–667/2
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is available  and Medium
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.