

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1125
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"020 – 2017 uehs ui 19 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'05'19
No. 2,020 –  fRiday ,  may  19, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 09th  June, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 26th may, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1123-B 81171- 5,403(05/2017)
N. B.–  (i)  Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,019 of 12.05.2017 was not published.
Note.–   (i) Sri Lanka institute of agriculture (incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of may 05, 2017. 
 (ii) Nation Building tax (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of may 12, 2017. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.05.2017
1124
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing	an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any	file	cover,	card	board	pad,	folded	newspapers,	brown	papers	should	
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		Be		at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	the	
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification	 documents	 at	 the	 Examination	 Hall,	 his	 candidature	 is	
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working	of	the	problem.	Necessary	sketches,	diagrams	and	figures	should	
be	accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		 answer	running	into	serveral	
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.05.2017
1125
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of hEALTh, NuTRITION AND 
INDIGENOuS mEDICINE 
Recruitment for Ayurveda Student Nurse 
Training - 2017
aPPLicatioNS are invited from applicants with 
following qualifications to be recruited for Student Nurse 
training under the ministry of Health, Nutrition and 
indigenous medicine. (Recruitment of male applicants 
will be made based on requirements of institutions coming 
under the ministry subject to provisions of the Nurses' 
Service minute) :
01. The qualified persons will be selected as 30% on all 
Island skill and 70% on provincial skill by preparing 
skills registeres based on Z-score received at the G. 
c. E. (advanced Level). the number of trainees to 
be recruited from those Provinces for the training 
course will be selected based on the number of 
vacancies available in hospitals and institutions 
coming under the Line ministry of the Province and 
the Provincial council.
 When applications are called for a training course 
out of those who have passed the advanced Level 
Examination in a number of years based on their 
z-score, the number to be recruited is divided in 
proportion to the number of applicants from each 
year. thereafter, the number to be recruited for each 
such year is divided in proportion to the number of 
students applied under the streams of Bio Science, 
mathematics and agriculture in that year, and 
thereafter the qualified persons will be selected 
on district basis out of the applicants who have 
obtained the highest z-score.
02. these courses are full-time courses. therefore, the 
students following any other type of full time course 
on the five week days and Saturday morning in a 
University or under the ministry of Health or in any 
other Government institution should not apply for 
this. in case any person is later found to have so 
applied, he will be removed out of the course/post 
and all expenses borne by the Government so far for 
him/her will be recovered. if a person following a 
full-time course in a University expects to so apply, 
the provisions under 2.1 to 2.3 below should be 
adhered to. applications of those who have been 
registered in full-time courses under the ministry of 
Health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine will  be 
rejected :
 2.1 if you have been or are registered any time in a 
full-time course in any University or any other 
Government institution, you should have taken 
such registration invalidated by 01.01.2017. 
Even when you are a person registered in a 
University and still has not participated or 
is not participating in lectures, you will be 
deemed a registered student of a University 
and therefore, such applicants should also get 
their registration invalidated. you should keep 
sufficient written documents in proof of the 
same as and when required.
 2.2 Even when you are not a person registered in a 
course of study conducted under any University 
or the ministry of Health, Nutrition and 
indigenous medicine by the date of 01.01.2017 
stated above, you will still be disqualified for 
this course if you had in any way remained 
registered by the date of interview for 
recruitment of trainees to the relevant course.
 2.3 If you are a person who has completed a degree 
in any University, the effective date of such 
degree should be a date falling on or before the 
final date of entertaining applications.
Important :
 1. y ou should strictly keep in your mind that no 
section of this Gazette  notification means that 
you will be given definite admission for the 
course applied for even when you have satisfied 
conditions 2.1 to 2.3 mentioned above.
 2. y ou should be aware that even when you 
have satisfied said conditions from 2.1 to 2.3, 
you are in no way qualified for these courses 
if you have not obtained the required z-score 
considered to be qualified or have not satisfied 
any other condition mentioned herein.
 3. You should be further aware that you will by no 
means be qualified for these courses if you have 
not satisfied conditions mentioned from 2.1 to 
2.3 even when you have obtained a sufficient 
z-score and completed all other conditions 
mentioned herein.
 03. Educational qualifications :
 (a) Passing General Certificate of Education 
(advanced Level) Examination in one sitting 
in all subjects under the Science stream of Bio 
Science/mathematics/ agriculture (Excluding 
the common General test),
   and,

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.05.2017
1126
 (b) Passing the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination in six 
(06) subjects in no more than two sittings with 
credit Passes for the 04 subjects of Sinhala/ 
tamil language, mathematics, Science and 
English.
   Certified photocopies of certificates of the 
above two Examinations should be sent to prove 
educational qualifications.
04. Other qualifications :
 (a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (b) Should serve a minimum period of 10 years 
in the Province for which training based 
recruitment is made. Officers recruited for the 
central Government should serve for a period of 
10 years in the department.
 (c) Should be not below 18 years of age and above 
28 years of age by 01.01.2017.
 (d) Should be not below 04 feet and 10 inches in 
height.
 (e) Should be unmarried.
 (f) Should be willing to serve in any area in the 
island and should be of sound physical health.
 (g) Should have a continuous period of residence 
within the district of application for 03 years 
immediately prior to the closing date of 
entertaining applications. one of the following 
should be satisfied to prove residence :
 (i) the candidate recruited for Provincial 
Service being a person born in the relevant 
district,
 (ii) Should have a continuous record of 
residence for a period of at least 03 years 
out of the 05 years immediately preceding 
the date mentioned in the Gazette (in 
proof of which either the Grama Niladhari 
Certificate countersigned by the Divisional 
Secretary or the V oter Register for 03 
years immediately preceding should be 
submitted),
 
 (iii) Should have received the secondary school 
education in the relevant district for a 
continuous period of 05 years.
Note : in case the mother or father of any candidate 
has been serving in a transferable service under 
Government, a Provincial council or a corporation, 
such candidate may select the district of birth of his 
mother or father as the district to which he belongs 
(for which the Certificate of Birth of his mother or 
father should be submitted).
05. Method of application :
 (a) application should be prepared by using both 
sides of an a4 size paper in keeping with the 
specimen given at the end of this notification.
  applications should be prepared to contain 
Sections 01 to 09 given in the specimen 
application on page 01, Section 10 on page 02 
and Sections 11 to 13 on page 03.
 (b) ''Recruitment to ayurveda Student Nurses' 
training - 2017" should be written on the left 
hand corner of the envelope containing duly 
filled applications and be sent by registered post 
to reach chief Secretary of the Province of your 
permanent residence by 30.06.2017. Addresses 
of chief Secretaries of each Province are given 
below.
 1. chief Secret ary, Western Province, chief 
Secretary's Office, Shrawasthi Mandiraya, 
colombo 07,
 2. chief Secretary, central Province, chief 
Secretary's Office, Kandy,
 3. Chief Secretary, Uva Province, Chief 
Secretary's Office, King's Street, Badulla,
 4. chief Secretary, North-Western Province, 
Chief Secretary's Office, Provincial Council 
Office Complex, Kurunegala,
 5. chief Secretary, North-central Province, 
Chief Secretary's Office, Maithripala 
Senanayake mawatha, anuradhapura,
 6. chief Secretary, Southern Province, chief 
Secretary's Office, S. H. Dahanayake 
mawatha, Galle,
 7. chief Secretary, Sabaragamuwa Province, 
Chief Secretary's Office, Provincial Council 
Office Complex, New Town, Ratnapura,

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.05.2017
1127
 8. chief Secretary, Eastern Province, 
Chief Secretary's Office, Kandy Road, 
Kappalthurei, Trincomalee.
 9. chief Secretary, Northern Province, chief 
Secretary's Office, No. 187, Adiyapatham 
Road, thirunelvel, Jaffna.
 10. for vacancies (in central Government) 
existing under the department of ayurveda, 
applications should be sent to the address of 
commissioner of ayurveda, department of 
ayurveda, Nawinna, maharagama.
 (c) Signature of the applicant should be certified 
by an Officer of the Sri Lanka Administrative 
Service Educational administrative Service/
Government accountants' Service/Principal of a 
government school/a Justice of Peace or a Public 
Officer holding a post with an initial salary of not 
less than Rs. 240,360.
 (d) Stamps to the value of Rs. 300/- should be 
pasted on the stamp cage on the application and 
invalidated by putting your signature.
06.  applications of workers in a Governement or Semi-
Governmental institution should be sent through their 
Head of the department. it should also be kept in mind that 
this is an external recruitment.
07.  only a number twice as much as the number 
of vacancies will be called for the  interview with a 
representation of Staff Officers in the Ministry of Health, 
Nutrition and indigenous medicine and Provincial 
Government Services based on a priority list prepared 
on the z-score of applicants who have satisfied above 
qualifications. Originals of the following documents 
should be presented by the applicants at the interview.
this general Board of interview is appointed to check 
whether the qualifications mentioned in the Scheme of 
Recruitment and Gazette notification published accordingly 
are met and to check the physical fitness and no marks will 
be given at the interview.
 (a) Birth certificate ;
 (b) Original of the certificate containing G. C. E.           
(a/Level) Examination and the z-score (of which 
a cretified copy should be sent annexed to the 
application).
 (c) Original of the certificate of G. C. E. (O/Level) 
Examinations results (of which a certified copy 
should be sent annexed to the application).
 (d) National identity card or valid passport or valid 
driving License (of which a certified copy should 
be sent annexed to the application).
 (e) Grama Niladhari Certificate as countersigned 
by the Divisional Secretary or a certified copy 
of V oter Registers for 03 immediately preceding 
years in proof of residence as per 4 (g) above.
 (f) An affidavit signed before a Justice of Pease in 
proof of marital status.
08.  Training Procedure :
 (a) Selected applicants will be admitted to Nurses' 
training Schools as Student Nurses and they 
should follow a 03 year training course.
 (b) a  code of rules and regulations pertaining to 
Nurses training Schools will be provided to 
trainees at the time of admission for training. 
they will be subject to these rules and regulations 
and other rules and regulations to be imposed 
from time to time.
 (c) t raining of the trainees may be terminated any 
time without compensation with respect to 
those who fail in due examinations during the 
period of training or whose work and conduct 
are unsatisfactory or those who fail to follow 
conditions of examination and leave or if their 
educational and other qualifications submitted for 
recruitment to the training are later revealed to 
be false. trainees are entitled to no leave during 
their period of  training and a fee in proportion 
to their allowance will be deducted in respect of 
days of absence from training. However, 80% 
attendance is compulsory every year to sit for the 
examination.
 (d) a  monthly allowance will be paid to trainees 
as follows during their period of training in a 
Nursing School:
  1. first year  - Rs. 18,728/-
  2. Second year - Rs. 18,935/-
  3. Third year - Rs. 19,142/-
 (e) if one is to vacate training during the period of 
training without successful completion of the 
training or is removed or leaves the training, 
he/she should repay the amount spent on him/
her during the period of training as his training 
expenses by the government to the Provincial 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.05.2017
1128
council/ department of ayurveda, or else, due 
steps will be taken to recover such amount.
09.  Conditions and Agreement for Non-marriage :
 (a) all applicants should be unmarried by the closing 
date for application and it is also compulsory to 
remain unmarried during the three year period 
of training. all applicants should present at the 
interview an affidavit signed before a Justice of 
Peace to confirm their unmarried status.
 (b) Student Nurses should come to an agreement 
with the relevant appointing authority at the 
time of their admission to the School of training 
that they will successfully complete training and 
no completion of such training that they will 
serve a minimum period of 10 years in a hospital 
coming under the ministry of Health, Nutrition 
and indigenous medicine and Provincial council/
department of ayurveda. this period of time will 
be specified from time to time.
10.  Conditions of engagement in service :-
 (a) Government is not committed to offer permanent 
appointments on conclusion of training. However, 
candidates will be considered for appointment to 
a post of Grade iii Nurse on vacancies available 
in the Province and conditions of the Scheme of 
Recruitment for the course of their training. it is 
compulsory to serve in the service station of one's 
first appointment for a period of 10 years from 
the date of appointment.
  Based on the merit list prepared on the final 
written examination conducted on termination 
of each course and also the 70% percentage 
recruited at provincial level and 30% percentage 
recruited on merit as mentioned above, it will be 
considered to grant appoitments to institutions 
where vacancies exist.
  appointments will be granted subject to policy 
decision to be taken in future by the government 
so as to create vacancies in posts on relevant 
salary scales.
 (b) y ou should be subject to the policy decision to 
be taken in due course by the government on the 
Pension Scheme entitled to the post of Nurse 
Grade iii to which appointments are to be made 
on results of the final examination conducted on 
termination of training as stated above.
 (c) appointments will be  made to the posts of 
Nurse, Grade iii subject to a probation period of 
03 years.
11.  Conditions of Service and Salary Scale :-
 (a) it is required for all trainees to appear for a 
medical test prior to commencement of training.
 (b) appointments will be made for vacancies 
available in the posts of Nurse, Grade iii on the 
salary scale Rs. 32,525-445x10-660x11-730x10-
750x10- Rs. 59,035 of MT 7-2016 of Public 
Administration Circular 03/2016.
 (c) All officers of the Nurses’ Service should perform 
their duties and obligations in keeping with all 
rules, regulations, orders and procedures to be 
imposed on Public Service by the Public Service 
cmmission. further, they should also be subject 
to the Establishments code of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, financial 
Regulations of the government other regulations, 
circulars and instructions of the government and 
to amendments issued for them from time to time. 
they will be subject to conditions contained in the 
Ayurveda Nurses’ Service Minute and Ayurveda 
act and also to transfers made according to 
policies stipulated by the Provincial department 
of ayurveda.
 (d) Particulars of educational and other qualifications 
should be very carefully and accurately included 
in filling applications. If the above said certificates 
are found to be false after recruitment for training 
or receiving appointment, action will be taken to 
refer to the criminal investigations department 
for legal action, to dismiss from training/the post 
by invalidation of posts so offered and to take 
disciplinary action on it and to include his/her 
name to the black list of persons not to be taken 
back into Public Service. further, action will 
be taken to recover from him/her the allowance 
made to him/her during the period of training, 
expenses made by the Government and the 
amounrt pertaining to the Security.
 (e) this ministry is not bound to provide residential 
facilities in training Schools for applicants 
recruited for training.
 (f) there is no right whatsover during this period 
of training to be engaged in union activities or 
private practice. further, if you are appointed to 
the relevant post after the training, you have  no 
right whatsoever even thereafter to be engaged in 
private practice. Steps will be taken to take legal 
action if such an action is to be revealed.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.05.2017
1129
 (g) in case any problematic situation is to be arisen 
on recruitment for training which is not covered 
by this Gazette notification, the decision of the 
Secretary to the ministry of Health, Nutrition 
and indigenous medicine on the same will be the 
final decision. In the event of any inconsistency 
between the Sinhala and tamil texts of this 
Gazette notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 
anura Jayawickrama, 
 Secretary, 
 ministry of Health, Nutrition and  
 indigenous medicine.
SPEcimEN aPPLicatioN foRm
recruitment of Student nurSeS for training
 
index No. : 
(for office use only)
medium in which you appeared for the Examination
 
Sinhala -S tamil- t 
(write the relevant letter in the box)
Basis of application
central Government - 1 
Provincial councils   -2 
(write the relevant number in the box)
01.   (a) Last name with initials  :–––––––––––.
    (in block capital  letters) 
   (b) full name (in Sinhala) :–––––––––––.
02. Postal address  :–––––––––––.
 (in block capital letters)
03. Permanent address  (in Sinhala)  :–––––––––––.
 district (in English)  :–––––––––––.
04. date of Birth :
 y ear  :––––––––. month  :––––––––. date  :––––––––.
05. age as at the date of application  :
 y ears  :–––––––. months  :–––––––. days  :–––––––.
06. Gender  :–––––––––––.  marital status  :–––––––––––.
07.  Whether you are a Sri Lankan : yes/No :––––––––––.
08. National identity card No. :–––––––––––.
09. Height :  feet :–––––––––––. inches :–––––––––––.
10. (a) General Certificate of Education Advanced Level 
Examination (Science stream)
  (attach a certified copy of the certificate)
 y ear :–––––––––––.  index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade For 
office 
use
Subject Grade For 
office 
use
1. 3.
2. 4.
 (b) General Certificate of Education Ordinary Level 
Examination (attach a certified copy of the 
certificate)
  y ear :–––––––––––.  index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade For 
office 
use
Subject Grade For 
office 
use
1. 7.
2. 8.
3. 9.
4. 10.
5. 11,
6. 12.
  y ear :–––––––––––.  index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade For 
office 
use
Subject Grade For 
office 
use
1. 7.
2. 8.
3. 9.
4. 10.
5. 11,
6. 12.
11. Have you been convicted of any offence before a court 
of law? yes/No :–––––––––––.
 if yes, give particulars :–––––––––––.
12. Stamp cage :

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.05.2017
1130
13. Certification by the applicant :-
 (a) i respectfully state that the particulars furnished 
by me in this application are true and correct to 
the best of my knowledge.
 (b) i am aware that, if this statement i have made 
is proven to be false I will be disqualified to 
be recruited to the Service and if proven so 
after receiving appoitment i will be subject to 
dismissal from service.
  ––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
14. attestation of signature of the applicant :
i certify that mr/miss ...................... submitting this 
application is known to me personally and that he/she put 
his/her signature before me on ................. 2017.
   –––––––––––,
   Signature of the attester.
date :–––––––––––.
Official stamp :–––––––––––.
full name of the attester :–––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
05-479
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  Of  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.