

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1086
    P AGE
Post - Vacant … … … - 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"334 – 2023 uehs ui 26 jeks isl=rdod – 2023'05'26
No. 2,334  –  FRIDAY ,  MAY  26, 2023
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  "GAZETTE"
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving  adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 16th June, 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 2nd June, 2023.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 GANGANI  LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2023.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1083 - B 082457 - 5,403 (05/2023)
Note.–     Banking (Special Provision) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of 12th May, 2023.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'05'26
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2023
1084
1. General Qualiﬁ cations required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as deﬁ ned in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualiﬁ cation prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Of ﬁ cers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed of ﬁ cial language 
proﬁ ciency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualiﬁ cations which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proﬁ ciency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All of ﬁ cers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public ofﬁ cer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Ofﬁ cers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Of ﬁ cer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Ofﬁ cers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Ofﬁ cer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public ofﬁ cers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public ofﬁ cers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the ofﬁ cial languages.
3:1:4  Conﬁ rmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an ofﬁ cer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proﬁ ciency Test in one 
of the Ofﬁ cial Languages within one year; Grade II Proﬁ ciency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proﬁ ciency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such ofﬁ cers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proﬁ ciency in one of the ofﬁ cial 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  pro ﬁ ciency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Ofﬁ cer already conﬁ rmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Ofﬁ cers may in the  ﬁ rst instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
speciﬁ ed  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Ofﬁ cer to test their physical ﬁ tness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public ofﬁ cers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public of ﬁ cers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Ofﬁ cers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those of ﬁ cers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Ofﬁ cer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Ofﬁ cers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from of ﬁ cers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualiﬁ cations must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Of ﬁ cers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to in ﬂ uence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualiﬁ cation if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Deﬁ nition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'05'26
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2023
1085
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
,All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.,
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disquali ﬁ cation from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certi ﬁ cate for a speciﬁ ed period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed ﬁ nal.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identi ﬁ ed only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difﬁ cult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any ﬁ le 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is suf ﬁ cient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identiﬁ cation documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and ﬁ gures should be 
accurate and sufﬁ ciently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'05'26
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2023
1086
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.,
SRI LANKA INSTITUTE OF ADV ANCED TECHNOLOGICAL EDUCATION 
(SLIATE)
Admission of Students to the Advanced Technological Institutes for the Academic Year - 2022/2023
APPLICATIONS are called for Higher National Diploma (HND) programmes conducted by the Sri Lanka Institute of 
Advanced Technological Education (SLIATE) from those who have successfully completed the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination 
in 2021 or preceding years.
HOW TO APPLY
The applying process should be done only via apply.sliate.ac.lk and any other means of applying will not be accepted.
Eligible candidates can select HND programmes under two categories that are based on the Z-score and marks of the 
selection test conducted by SLIATE.
SLIATE Academic Programmes based on Z-Score
Category - 1
HNDA, HNDBA, HNDBF, HNDE (CIVIL), 
HNDE (MECHANICAL), HNDE (ELECTRICAL 
& ELECTRONICS)/ HNDQS, HNDBSE, 
HNDT(AGRICULTURE), HNDFT
SLIATE Academic Programmes based on Selection Test 
Mark
Category - 2
HND IN ENGLISH, HNDIT, HNDM, HNDPM, 
HNDTHM
Please refer  to Section "A"  for Entry Qualiﬁ cations of HND programmes and Section "B" for  the details of Advanced 
Technological Institutes (ATIs).
Eligible candidates can apply for academic programmes in each category (Category - 1 & Category - 2) at a cost of Rs. 
500/- per category.
If a candidate wishes to apply for both categories, Rs. 500/- per each application should be paid directly to the bank. Online 
payments are not accepted.
The Transaction Reference Number (TRN) of the bank payment receipt should be entered into the online application.
Payments should be credited to SLIATE account number 025-2-001-1-3397613 at Peoples' Bank , Hyde Park Branch, 
Colombo 02 on or before 26
th June 2023.
After the conﬁ rmation of the online application, obtain a system generated hard copy of the application. A signed copy of the 
above application and the payment receipt should be produced, when registering for the selected programme in the relevant 
ATI.
Students who have applied for programmes under the category - 2 should bring the system generated hard copy of 
the application with signature, admission card and payment receipt to the relevant ATI (examination center) when 
appearing for the examination/s.
Students who have applied for a programme under the category - 2, should select the exam center from following examination 
centers: Ampara, Anuradhapura, Badulla, Batticaloa, Dehiwala, Galle, Gampaha, Jaffna, Kandy, Kegalle, Kurunegala, 
Mannar, Rathnapura, Tangalle, Trincomalee, Vavuniya.
The status of the application during and after processing will be informed via the given e-mail address. mobile phone 
number or by post.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'05'26
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2023
1087
Applications received after the closing date 26/06/2023 will not be entertained under any circumstances.
MODE OF CONDUCTING PROGRAMMES
Full-Time Programme
Part-Time Programme (During Weekends)
Medium of instruction : - English
Part-Time courses are conducted for those who are employed in the relevant ﬁ elds.
PROGRAMME FEES
Full-Time Programme fee - Free
Part-Time programme fees per semester are as follows.
• Higher National Diploma in Accountancy - HNDA  Rs. 17,000.00
• Higher National Diploma in English - HND in English  Rs. 17,000.00
• Higher National Diploma in Information Technology - HNDIT Rs. 30,000.00
• Refundable Deposit for a Part-time programme Rs. 10,000.00
REGISTRATION
Originals and certiﬁ ed copies of the educational and other required documents should be produced at the registration.
HOSTEL FACILITIES
A limited number of full-time students will be provided hostel facilities on request only at the following ATIs.
 ATI Dehiwala and Gampaha - Only for female students
 ATI Ampara and Colombo - Male & female students
Section "A"
Entry Qualiﬁ cations for the Higher National Diploma (HND) Programmes
1. Higher National Diploma in Accountancy (HNDA)
 1.1  Full -Time - 4 years
  Applicants should have the following quali ﬁ cations :
  Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination in the commerce stream in one sitting with Accounting as one of the 
subjects.
and
  An Ordinary pass for English at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination.
 1.2 Part-Time - 4 years
  Applicants should have one of the following quali ﬁ cations :
 (i)  Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination in the commerce stream in one sitting with Accounting as one of the 
subjects.
and
  An Ordinary pass for English at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
and
  The applicant should be an employee in the relevant ﬁ eld in a Government Institution/Public Enterprise/
Recognized Firm or Self-employed (enterpreneur). Should produce legal documents at the interview.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'05'26
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2023
1088
 (ii)  Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination in one sitting
and
  Completion of any of the certi ﬁ cate courses given below conducted by the Department of Technical 
Education & Training (DTET)
  A. Higher National Diploma in Accounting Sector
  B. National Certi ﬁ cate in Accounting Technicians
  C. National Certi ﬁ cate in Business Studies
  D. National Certi ﬁ cate in Accounting
and
  An Ordinary pass for English at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination.
and
  The applicant should be an enployee in the relevant ﬁ eld in a government institution/ public enterprise/
recognized ﬁ rm or self - employed (entrepreneur). Should produce legal documents at the interview.
Note 1 :  Any Part-Time HNDA applicant from the commerce stream who has one or more of the following qualiﬁ caitons 
will be exempted from the ﬁ rst year and enrolled in the second year if other entry requirements are met and the 
capacity of the ATI is available.
 i.  Completion of the Higher National Diploma in Business Administration.Business Finance & National 
Diploma in Business Studies conducted by the SLIATE.
 ii.  Have a Degree in Management discipline
 iii.  Completion of Business Level I & II (or Executive level or CAB I and CAB II or Foundation & Intermediate 
level or Licentiate I and II) conducted by the Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka.
 iv.  Completion of part I and part II of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA - UK)
 v. Completion of Part I and Part II of the Association of Chartered Certi ﬁ ed Accountants (ACCA - UK)
 vi.  Completion of the Association of Accounting Technicians (AAT).
 vii.  Completion of ACMA conducted by the Institute of Certi ﬁ ed Management Accountants (CMA-Sri Lanka).
Note 2 :  According to the Public Administration Circular No. 46/90, the Higher National Diploma in Accountancy has 
been recognized to be accepted as an alternative qualiﬁ cation to a General Degree in Commerce (Ordinary pass), 
awarded by a recognized university registered under the University Grant Commission (UGC) for recruitment 
purposes.
2.  Higher National Diploma in Business Administration - (HNDBA) Full-Time - 2 
½ years
3.  Higher National Diploma in Business Finance - (HNDBF) Full-Time - 2 ½ years
Applicants should have the following qualiﬁ cations :
 (i)  Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination in one sitting in Commerce stream
and
   Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination
4.  Higher National Diploma in Engineering (HNDE - Civil) : Full-Time - 3 ½ yrs
5.  Higher National Diploma in Engineering (HNDE - Electical & Electronics) Full-Time - 3 ½ yrs
6.  Higher National Diploma in Engineering (HNDE - Mechanical) : Full-Time - 3 ½ yrs
7.  Higher National Diploma in Quantity Surveying (HNDQS) : Full-Time - 2 ½ yrs
8.  Higher National Diploma in Building Services Engineering (HNDBSE) : Full-Time - 3 ½ yrs
Applicants should have the following qualiﬁ cations:

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'05'26
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2023
1089
 (i)  Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination in one sitting in Physical Science stream (Chemistry, Physics and Combined 
Mathematics)
and
   Ordinary pass in English at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination
9.  Higher National Diploma in English (HND in English)
 9.1  Full-Time - 2 ½ Years
  Applicants should have the following quali ﬁ cations :
 (i)  Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination in one sitting in any stream (General English will not be considered as 
one of the main three subjects)
and
   Credit pass for English at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination.
or
  Ordinary pass for Appreciation of English Literacy Text at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination
 9.2  Part-Time - 2 ½ years
  In addition to the above quali ﬁ cations in 9.1, the applicant should be employed in the government sector/public 
enterprise/recognized ﬁ rm (must produce particulars regarding EPF/ETF) or self-empoyed (enterprenur). Should 
produce legal documents at the interview.
10.  Higher National Diploma in Food Technology (HNDFT) Full-Time - 2 ½ years
Applicants should have the following qualiﬁ cations :
 (i)  Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination in one sitting in Bio Science or Physical Science stream.
and
   Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination.
11.  Higher National Diploma in Information Technology (HNDIT)
 11.1  Full Time - 2 ½ years
   Applicants should have the following quali ﬁ caions :
 (i)  Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination in one sitting in any stream.
and
   Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination.
 11.2  Part-Time - 2 ½ years
 In addition to the quali ﬁ cations in 11.1, the applicant should be employed in the relevant ﬁ eld in a government 
institution/public enterprise/recognized ﬁ rm (must produce particulars regarding EPF/ETF) or self-employed 
(entrepreneur). Should produce legal documents at the interview.
12.  Higher National Diploma in Management (HNDM) Full-Time - 3 years
 Applicants should have the following quali ﬁ caitons:
 (i)  Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination in one sitting in any stream.
and
  Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination.
or

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'05'26
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2023
1090
 (ii)  National Certi ﬁ cate for Accounting Technicians or National Certiﬁ cate in Business Studies (Public Administration/
Marketing ) conducted by the Department of Technical Education & Training.
and
  Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination.
13.  Higher National Diploma in Project Management (HNDPM) Full-Time - 2 ½ years
 Applicants should have the following quali ﬁ caitons:
 (i)  Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination in one sitting in any stream.
and
   Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination.
14.  Higher National Diploma in Technology (Agriculture) - (HNDT - Agriculture) Full-Time - 3 years
 Applicants should have the following quali ﬁ cations :
 (i)  Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination in one sitting in Bio Science stream (including Biology and Chemistry 
together with Physics or Agriculture).
and
   Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at G.C.E. (O/L) examination.
15.  Higher National Diploma in Tourism & Hospitality Management - (HNDTHM) Full-Time - 3 years
 Applicants should have the following quali ﬁ caitons :
 (i)  Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination in one sitting in any stream
and
   Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination.
Section "B"
Names of ATIs, Addresses, Telephone Numbers and the Higher National Diploma (HND) courses [Full Time (FT) & 
Part Time (PT)]
Name of ATI Address Telephone 
Numbers Courses Offered
01.
Hardy Advanced 
Technological 
Institute - Ampara
Prof. Even A. Hardy 
Mawatha, Ampara.
063-2222056
063-2223035
HNDT (Agriculture)(FT), HNDA (FT), 
HNDM (FT), HNDIT (FT), HNDTHM (FT),
HND in English (FT)
HNDA (PT), HND in English (PT) HNDIT (PT)
02.
Advanced 
Technological 
Institute - 
Anuradhapura
Akkara 111, Anula 
Mw, Pandulagama, 
Anuradhapura.
025-2234417 HNDIT (FT), HNDA (FT), HND in English (FT),
HNDIT (PT) HNDA (PT), HND in English (PT)
03.
Advanced 
Technological 
Institute -  Badulla
Greenland Drive, 
Badulla
055-2230218
055-2223818
HNDIT (FT), HNDA (FT), HNDM (FT), 
HND in English (FT), HNDTHM (FT),
HNDIT (PT), HNDA (PT), HND in English (PT)
04.
Advanced 
Technological 
Institute - Batticaloa
Main street, Kovil 
Kulam East, 
Arayampathy, 
Batticaloa.
065-2247519
065-2247470
HNDIT (FT), HNDA (FT), HND in English (FT),
HNDA (PT), HND in English (PT), HNDIT (PT)

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'05'26
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2023
1091
Name of ATI Address Telephone 
Numbers Courses Offered
05.
Advanced 
Technological 
Institute -  Colombo
No. 42, Rodrigo 
Place, Colombo -15.
011-2521152
011-2521282
HNDE (Civil)(FT), HNDE (Mechanical) (FT), 
HNDE (Electrical & Electronics) (FT),
HNDQS (FT), HNDBSE (FT)
06.
Advanced 
Technological 
Institute - Dehiwala
No. 51, Waidya Rd, 
Dehiwala. 011-2738349
HNDIT (FT), HNDA (FT), HNDM (F/T), 
HNDBA (FT), HND in English (FT), HNDBF 
(FT), HNDTHM (FT), HNDA (PT), HND in 
English (PT)
07.
Advanced 
Technological 
Institute - Galle
Siridamma Mw, 
Labuduwa, 
Akmeemana, Galle
091-2246179
HNDE (Civil) (FT), HNDE (Mechanical) (FT),
HNDE (Electrical & Electronics) (FT)
HNDQS (FT), HNDIT (FT), HNDT (Agriculture) 
(FT),
HNDA (FT), HNDM (FT), HNDTHM (FT),
HNDBA (FT), HND in English (FT),
HNDA (PT), HNDIT (PT), HND in English (PT)
08.
Advanced 
Technological 
Institute - Gampaha
Naiwala, Essalla, 
Veyangoda.
033-2287519
033-2292544
HNDT (Agriculture) (FT), HNDIT (FT),
HNDFT (FT), HNDA (FT),
HNDA (PT), HNDIT (PT)
09.
Advanced 
Technological 
Institute - Jaffna
No. 665/2, Beach 
Rd, Gurunagar, 
Jaffna.
021-2222595
021-2229803
HNDE (Civil) (FT), HNDE (Electical & 
Electronics) (FT), HNDQS (FT), HNDA (FT), 
HND in English (FT), HNDM (FT), HNDIT (FT), 
HNDIT (PT), HNDA (PT), HND in English (PT)
10.
Advanced 
Technological 
Institute - Kandy
No. 16, Keppetipola 
Mawatha, Kandy.
081-2232097
081-2226644
HNDIT (FT), HNDA (FT), HNDM (FT),
HNDBA (FT), HND in English (FT), 
HNDTHM (FT)
HNDA (PT), HND in English (PT), HNDIT (PT)
11.
Advanced 
Technological 
Institute - Kegalle
Bandaranayake 
Mawatha, Kegalle
035-2221297
035-2221713
HNDIT (FT), HNDA (FT), HND in English (FT), 
HNDPM (FT)
HNDA (PT), HND in English (PT)
12.
Advanced 
Technological 
Institute - Kurunegala
No. 22/1, Wilgoda 
Rd, Kurunegala.
037-2229583
037-2224911
HNDIT (FT), HNDA (FT), HNDM (FT),
HND in English (FT), HNDTHM (FT),
HNDIT (PT), HNDA (PT), HND in English (PT)
13.
Advanced 
Technological 
Institute - Mannar
De Lasalle 
English Medium 
School Building, 
Thalaimanar Road, 
Mannar.
023-3122555 HND in English (FT),
HNDIT (FT)
14.
Advanced 
Technological 
Institute - 
Nawalapitiya
No. 154/6, Gampola 
Road, (Black Street) 
Aishwarya Hall, 4th 
Floor, Nawalapitiya.
054-2050634 HNDTHM (FT), HNDM (FT), HND in English 
(PT)

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'05'26
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2023
1092
Name of ATI Address Telephone 
Numbers Courses Offered
15.
Advanced 
Technological 
Institute - Rathnapura
New Town, 
Ratnapura
045-2231492
045-2231493
HNDIT (FT), HNDA (FT), HND in English (PT), 
HNDA (PT)
16.
Advanced 
Technological 
Institute - 
Sammanthurai
ATI Avenue, 
Sammanthurai 067-2261304
HNDIT (FT), HNDA (FT), HND in English (FT),
HNDM (FT),
HNDIT (PT), HNDA (PT), HND in English (PT)
17.
Advance 
Technological 
Institute - Tangalle
Yayawaththa, 
Netolpitiya, 
Tangalle.
047-2241845
047-2241846
HNDIT (FT), HNDA (FT), HND in English (FT)
HNDA (PT), HND in English (PT)
18.
Advanced 
Technological 
Institute - 
Trincomalee
Kanniya Rd, 
Varothayanagar, 
Trincomalee.
026-2223232 HNDIT (FT), HNDA (FT), HND in English (FT),
HNDA (PT), HNDIT (PT), HND in English (PT)
19.
Advanced 
Technological 
Institute - Vavuniya
Off A 9 Road, 
Veppankulam, 
Omanthai, 
Vavuniya.
024-2052733 HNDA (FT), HND in English (FT)
HNDA (PT), HND in English (PT)
Note : 
1.  The applicant should ful ﬁ l the required entry qualiﬁ cations before the closing date of applications.
2.  The minimum marks for the G.C.E. (A/L) General Common Test Paper, should be 25 marks for HND Full-Time 
programmes. The applicant should be qualiﬁ ed for higher education.
3.  The recruitment of eligible candidates for HNDs in category 02 will be based on respective written test marks conducted 
in 16 centers. There will be two written tests as below conducted on two different dates.
 (i)  Selection test for HND English
 (ii)  Common selection test for HNDIT, HNDM, HNDPM, and HNDTHM
4.  Preference will be given to full-time students who are below 23 years of age.
5. AT least 50 students should be registered in a particular study programme to commence the course at a particular ATI. If 
there is no sufﬁ cient number of applicants to commence the programme, such students will be transferred to the nearest 
ATI where the same programme is conducted. The ﬁ nal decision will be taken by the Director General.
6.  Full-Time students of all the courses should attend lectures during weekdays and if required, during weekend.
7.  Part-time courses will be conducted during weekends.
8.  Mode of delivery of academic activities for both of full-time and part-time courses will be in physical mode (in-class).
9.  The ﬁ rst and second years of HNDA (Full-Time) programme is conducted only on weekdays. The third and fourth years 
are conducted during weekends.
10.  The ﬁ rst and second years of HNDM programmes is conducted on weekdays and the third year is conducted on 
weekends.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'05'26
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2023
1093
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
11.  Students of full-time programmes must undergo in-plant training for minimum six months in the relevant ﬁ eld.
12.  Part-time applicants should be employed in a relevant ﬁ eld.
13.  Once a student has been enrolled in a full-time course, transfering to any other ATI will not be entertained under 
any circumstances
14.  Students who have registered for any HND course would be allowed to cancel their registration before 60 days starting 
from the closing date of registration given by the relevant institute without any penalty.
15.  (i)  Rs. 5,000.00 per month will be charged for the period of stay from the full-time students who are cancelling their 
registration after 60 days. A maximum of Rs. 30,000.00 will be charged from full-time students who cancel the 
registration in a six-month period or more.
 (ii) Initial refundable depost of Rs. 10,000.00 will be charged at the registration of part-time students and it will 
be refunded at the end of the programme. If the student leaves earlier from the programme, then this deposit 
will not be refunded. A discount of 10% will be given to the part-time applicants who pay the whole fees in the 
registration as a lump sum.
16.  Semester-end examinations will be held for both full-time and part-time students during weekdays and weekends.
17.  G.C.E. (A/L) and G.C.E. (O/L) Examinations must be the examinations administered by the Department of Examinations, 
Sri Lanka.
18.  Any applicant who has provided false information will be rejected.
19.  The decision of the Director General of SLIATE will be the ﬁ nal decision for the admission of students to Advanced 
Technological Institutes for the academic year 2022/2023.
20.  For more information please visit the web site : www.sliate.ac.lk
CLOSING DATE OF APPLICATIONS 26.06.2023.
Director General, Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education (SLIATE)
05 - 315