

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'04'25
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.04.2008
473
473
wxl 1"547 _ 2008 wfm%a,a 25 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008'04'25
No. 1,547 – FRIDAY , APRIL 25, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 476
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 477
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of a cceptance of
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of publication.
All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of appli cations in regard to
vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this change, i.e., by giving adequate
time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication thus enabling those inte rested in the
contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks prior to
date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 02nd May 2008, should reach the Government Press on or before 12 noon
on 18th April, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  G OONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— The Quarterly (April-June 2004) Catalogue of Books in Part V of the Gazette ; and the Name List of Medical Practioners, Dentists
and Persons entitled to Practise Medicine & Surgery in Part VI of the Gazette have been published Separately in this issue

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'04'25
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.04.2008
474
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass in the
Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher examination,
should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil language obtained,as
the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate Examination or its equivalent
if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil
educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement will not apply to those who
are in the public service from a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek
appointments to other posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent
appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency Test in one
of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within
two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if the
test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the prescribed
period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until such time as
the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal
duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding permanent
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination by
a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in any
part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts should
contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover
form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will contribute
as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the compulsory
contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the Local
Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt  Service
who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for appointments
to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed pensionability  in
their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who are
released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary
in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the
Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under
these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all the
necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public officers
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads
or Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at
an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be paid in
this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by giving
a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence the
selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements
of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990 subject
to amendments that will be done by subsequent public Administration
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'04'25
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.04.2008
475
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate who
violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following punishments at
the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject or a part
thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one year or
two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  the
candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time before
the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision shall be deemed
final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the Public Service, the decision
of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public
Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and around
the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, his assistants or
the other candidates. They should enter and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as
possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the Examination is
in progress and before the commencement of the Examination as well as immediately
after the end of the Examination they should act in accordance with the instructions
of the Supervisor and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into the
Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement of a paper.
No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an hour from the time
of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral
Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number and not
at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no candidate should
change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than the one assigned to him by
a candidate is liable to be considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall. A candidate
is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with any person within
or outside the Examination hall other than a member of the Examination hall staff. If
there is an urgent need for a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission
must be obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number and his/her
name should not be written on the answer script. Another candidate’s index number
appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is considered as an attempt to commit
a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher
is liable to be rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should not write
anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other place. Non
conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, folded or
erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be tied up with the
answer script. If should be a part of the answer script. (Such rough work should be
neatly crossed out.) Anything written inside the Examination hall should not be
taken out. If a question has been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be
neatly crossed out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct answers
with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if the work of art is
similar or very close in resemblance to that of another candidate in concept, in form
or in execution it is liable to be considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of the
Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property of the
Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to be considered
an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with him or near
him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet of paper or pieces
of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling
bag or parcel other than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments
where necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers
should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note book or a
sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination hall. Should the
Supervisor so requires each candidate is bound to declare everything he has with
him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an
act of dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer script
of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other source. A candidate
should not attempt to look at the answer script of any another candidate. A candidate
should refrain from helping another Candidate and also from getting help from
another   candidate or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept
underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the
Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper. However in
an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/she shall be allowed to do
under the surveillance of the supervisor or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to
search before leaving the hall as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement of the
Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, presenting false
identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates
are warned not to commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person who is not
a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the
Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each paper. If you
have any doubt as to the location of the Examination hall, make inquiries on a day
prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility to sit
a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get your doubts
cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce their
identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce identification
documents at the Examination hall, his candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case
a candidate forgets to bring such documents into the Examination hall, it should be
brought to the notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, precis
paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different from the kind
generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be promptly brought to the
notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those issued at the Examination hall
should be used for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be
left on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used
with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, erasers,
pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, coloured chalk,
etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your index
number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper used. Write neatly
and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  line after the answer to each
part of a question. After the answer to a full question leave one or several blank
lines. Do not crowd in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter the
number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved for the
examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your answers correctly
as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the question
paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in which the other
questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions is often liable to affect
you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working of the
problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be accurate and sufficiently
large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if reference must be made to a
diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them up at  the
top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure to do so
may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an absentee for the
paper. On no account should your script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an Invigilator,
or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'04'25
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.04.2008
476
Posts - Vacant
REGISTRAR GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars – Marriages, Births and Deaths - Kurunegala District
APPLICATIONS are invited for the  posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths  in the Divisions set  out in the schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should  be permanent residents of the said  Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should  be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the  area.
03. Both Male  and Female can apply for these  posts.
04. Applicants should  be not  less  than 21 years and  not  more  than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should  be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other  Qualifications etc. could  be obtained from the notices  exhibited  in public plac es
such as District Secretariats, Land  and  District Registries Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural De velopment
Societies  and Co-operative Societies  in the  Division.
07. Application forms are  obtainable  from the  offices of District  Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should  be sent by registered post  to the address given in the  Schedule on or  before  23rd May 2008 .
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 280, Main Street, Colombo 11,
03rd April 2008.
Schedule
District Divisional Division and  Post for  which Address to which
Secretary' s applications are  called applications should be
Divsion sent
Kurunegala Kobeygane Post of Registrar of Marriages (Kandyan and  ordinary) District Secretary/ Addl. Registrar
in Devamedi Hathpattu Division and births and deaths General District Secretariat,
in Baladora Kaorale Division, Kurunegala
Do. Ambanpola Post  of Registrar of Marriages (Kandyan and  ordinary) - do -
in Wanni Hathpattu Division and births and deaths  in
Ganthiha Kaorale Ambanpola  Division,
Do. Narammala Post of Registrar  of Marriages (Kandyan and ordinary) - do -
in Dambadeni Hathpattu Division and births and deaths
in Dambadeni Udukaha West  Division,
Do. Kuliyapitiya Post  of Registrar of Marriages (Kandyan and  ordinary) - do -
(West) in Katugampala Hathpattu Division and  births and
deaths in Mayurawathi Korale Division,
Do Ambanpola Post  of Registrar  of Marriages (Kandyan and ordinary)
in Katugampala Hathpattu Division and births and
deaths in Mayurawathi Korale Division. - do -
04-571

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'04'25
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.04.2008
477
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  VOCATIONAL  AND  TECHNICAL
TRAINING
National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority
INSTITUTE  OF  ENGINEERING  TECHNOLOGY
(Former Technician Training Institute) - Katunayake
RECRUITMENT  OF SPECIAL APPRENTICES IN ENGINEERING FOR
NATIONAL DIPLOMA IN ENGINEERING SCIENCES (NDES) COURSE 2008
BATCH
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka to recruit
Special Apprentices in Engineering for the 2008 batch in respect
of the above course of studies at the Institute of Engineering
Technology (Former Technician Training Institute), Katunayake.
1. Educational Qualifications for entry.— Candidates with
qualifications mentioned below are eligibel to apply.
1.1 A Pass at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in 06 subjects in
one sitting including a minimum of 03 credit passes
including Mathamatics, Science and Language.
and
1.2 Passes at the G .C.E. (A/L - New Syllabi) in Combined
Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry in one sitting.
2. Age.— Between 18 and 25 years as at 01.12.2008.
3. Duration and Course Schedule.— This is four year course,
wherein a 73 week (approximately) academic instruction
Programme is sandwiched with a 135 week (approximately)
Industrial Training as given below.
Basic Instruction Programme at IET
(Including English Intensive course) - 27 weeks
Basic Industrial Training in Industry - 39 weeks
General Instruction Programme at IET - 23 weeks
General Industrial Training in Industry - 52 weeks
Specialized Instruction Programme at IET - 23 weeks
Specialized Industrial Training in Industry - 44 weeks
Instruction Programmes consist of theoretical Instructions and
course works conducted at Institute of Engineering Technology.
Industrial Training Programmes are conducted at recognized
Industrial  Establishments.
4. Courses conducted in the IET are as follows :
A. Civil Engineering Sector–
1. Building and Structural Engineering
2. Highway and Railway Engineering
3. Water and Environment Engineering
B. Electrical Engineering Sector–
4. Electronics Engineering
5. Electrical Power Engineering
6. Telecommunication Engineering
C. Mechanical Engineering Sector–
7. Mechanical (Automotive) Engineering
8. Mechanical (General) Engineering
9. Marine Engineering
D. Computer Engineering Sector–
10. Computer Software Engineering
11. Computer Hardware and Networking Engineering
(a) "The Quality Management System of
Marine Engineering (No. 09) Division of
IET is in accordance with the requirements
of ISO 9001 – 2000.
(b) In respect of Marine Engineering Course the
Institute is engaged in providing academic
instructions and industrial training
Programmes to meet the mandatory
requirements for knowledge, understanding
and proficiency in Marine Engineering at
the operational level related with STCW 95,
including its amendments and model course
7.04 of International Maritime Organization
(IMO) coverage.
5. Medium of Instruction.—  English
6. Contract of Apprenticeship :
6.1 Each selected candidate is required to enter into a cantract
with the training establishment, which casts, mutual
obligations on both the training establishment and the
Apprentice. At the time of registration an apprentice
should deposit a sum of Rs. 5,000, refundable at the
completion of the course.
Those who will be leaving the programme during the
period of the course, the deposit will not be refunded.
6.2 In the event of industrial training the apprentices are
required to enter into a contract with the training
establishment.
6.3 There is no guatantee of employment at the end of the
training period.
6.4 All the students registered for the above courses should
maintain a minimum requirement of 80% attendance
during the course period. Those who fail to obtain this
requirement are not allowed to sit for the examinations
and they have to leave the present batch and continue
with the subsequent batch.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'04'25
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.04.2008
478
7. Award of Certificates.—  National Diploma in Engineering
Sciences Certificate will be awarded on successful completion of
the course.
8. Selection Criteria :
8.1 All applicants who have the minimum entry qualifications
as stated in para 1 within the age limit mentioned in para
2 above would be eligible. Selections will be done as
given below.
8.2 Those candidates who are eligible as per 8.1 will be
required to sit for a written aptitude test in English
medium. (Elegible candidates will be informed in
advance).
8.3 An interview will be held to select the candidates for
different fields/specializations based on preferences in
respect of fields/specializations and order of merit at the
aptitude test.
8.4 Those who are selected for Marine Engineering Course
will have to appear for a medical test at their own expense
prior to registration.
9. Applications :
9.1 Applications and additional information can be obtained
from NDES web site (
www.iet.edu.lk)
9.2 Application forms could be collected from the Registrar,
Institute of Engineering Technology, Temple Road,
Katunayake on payment of Rs. 50 in cash, or by post by
sending a money order for Rs. 50 with a self-addressed
stamped envelope size 9"x4" to “Registrar, Institute of
Engineering Technology, Temple Road, Katunayake”
(Telephone : 011-2252833 ; 011-2252834) up to 16th
June 2008.
9.3 Application forms could be obtained from NAITA Head
office, National Institute and Provincial Offices too up
to 16th June 2008 on payment of Rs. 50 in cash.
(i) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 971, Sri Jayawardenapura
Mawatha, Welikada, Rajagiriya (Telephone :
011-2863680 ; 011-2867435).
(ii) Apprenticeship Training Institute, No. 581, Galle
Road, Katubedda, Moratuwa (Telephone :
011-2647393 ; 011-2641092).
(iii) Automobile Engineering Training Institute,
No. 07, Dr. Danister De Silva Mawatha,
Orugodawatta, Wellampitiya (Telephone :
011-2572977 ; 011-2532182).
(iv) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Uva Province, No. 288, Kumarasinghe
Mawatha, Passara Road, Badulla (Telephone :
055-2222608).
(v) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Sabaragamuwa Province, New
Colombo Road, School Lane, New Town,
Ratnapura (Telephone : 045-2228667).
(vi) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Southern Province, No. 27A, Open
University Road, Nupe, Matara (Telephone :
041-2226958).
(vii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Central Province, No. 108/2B,
Thiwankabodhi Mawatha, Mulgampola, Kandy
(Telephone : 081-2201918).
(viii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, North Central Province, Second Stage,
No. 522/2, Maithripala Senanayake Mawatha,
Anuradhapura (Telephone : 025-2225504).
(ix) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, North Western Province, Near National
Youth Services Council, Negombo Road,
Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala (Telephone :
037-2221865).
(x) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Northern Province, 07, Kovil Road,
Jaffna (Telephone : 021-2222383).
(xi) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Eastern Province, No. 07, G. S. Lane,
Kalmunaikudi 13, Kalmunai (Telephone :
067-2229357).
(xii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Western Province, No. 242, Havelock
Road, Colombo 05 (Telephone : 011-2597671-2 ;
011-2587258).
9.4 All applicants should pay Rs. 300 as per the details (9.5)
to any branch of people's Bank and paying slip need to
be attached to the application, when forwarding the
application.
9.5 The Pay-In-Slip needs to be duly perfected with the
following :
(i) Branch Code and Account No. 174-100170347379
(ii) Credit Instruction : To the credit of National
Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority
collection Account No. 174-100170347379 at
People's Bank, Nugegoda.
(iii) Name and the Address of the Applicant.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'04'25
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.04.2008
479
9.6 Duly filled application form, should be sent under
registered cover to reach the Director/Principal, Institute
of Engineering Technology, Temple Road, Katunayake
along with the Pay-In-Slip duly signed by an Authorized
officer of the Bank, on or before 20th June, 2008 Late
application or application forwarded by, by hand will not
be accepted.
9.7 Those who have followed or are following Diploma or
Degree level full time courses of studies in a Government
Technical Institute or University are not eligible to apply.
9.8 Originals or copies of certificates should not be sent along
with the application.
9.9 Receipt of the applications will not be acknowledged.
9.10 Money Orders in respect of para 9.2 above should be
drawn in favour of the Accountant, Institute of
Engineering Technology, payable at Katunayake Post
Office.
10. The Institute of Engineering Technology (IET) will not
consider or be responsible for any delay or loss of applications in
the mail. Therefore, the candidates are requested to post their
applications well ahead in time to avoid delays.
Chairman.
National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority,
No. 971, Sri Jayawardenapura Mawatha,
Welikada,
Rajagiriya.
04-612
INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY OF
MORATUWA
Admission to the National Diploma in Technology
Course, 2008/2009
Applications are invited from eligible candidates for admission to
the National Diploma in Technology, 3 - year fulltime Course
conducted by the Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa.
The Course will be conducted within the University premises at
Moratuwa until it is moved to a new premises of the Institute of
Technology, University of Moratuwa at Diyagama, Homagama.
1. General.—  The National Diploma in Technology Course
consists of two years of academic study and one year of Industrial
Training and it is conducted in the English medium. The course is
offered in the following fields of study :
(i) Chemical Engineering Technology
(ii) Civil Engineering Technology
(iii) Electrical Engineering Technology
(iv) Electronics & Telecommunication Engineering
Technology
(v) Marine Engineering Technology
(vi) Mechanical Engineering Technology
(vii) Nautical Studies & Technology
(viii) Polymer Technology
(ix) Textile & Clothing Technology
2. Eligibility :
2.1 Age :
(a) Applicants should be below 24 years of age on
31.12.2007.
(b) Applicants below 20 years of age on 31.12.2007
will be given preference for admission to the
Nautical Studies and Technology Course.
(c) Those who are fulltime registered students of any
University under UGC (except the Open University
of Sri Lanka) or Higher Educational Institute under
the Ministry of Higher Education are not eligible
to apply.
2.2 Educational Qualifications.—  Applicants should have
obtained passess in three (03) of the following subjects :
(i) Physics
(ii) Chemistry
(iii) Combined Mathematics
(iv) Advanced Mathematics
at one and the same sitting of a G. C. E. (A. L.)
Examination conducted by the Commissioner General
of Examinations, Sri Lanka in 2005 or 2006 or 2007.
3. Selection Criteria :
3.1 Admission to the Course.—  The selection of students for
admission will be based on the performance at G . C. E.
(A. L.) Examination and the aptitude test to be conducted
by the Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa.
From those who pass the aptitude test, selections will be
done in the merit order of G . C. E. (A. L.) results, i. e. in
the order of z-scores. In the selection, 40% merit and
60% district quota will be applied.
3.2 Field of Study.—  Aptitude test marks together with the
applicant's order of preference for the field of study as
indicated in the field preference will be considered in
the allocation of the field of study.
4. Application Procedure :
4.1 Application form :
(i) Application should be made according to the
Specimen Form given in this Gazette Notification.
Specimen application will also be available in the
following Web address :
http://www.mrt.ac.lk/itum

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'04'25
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.04.2008
480
(ii) Applications should be forwarded under
Registered Post marked "NDT Admission 2008/
2009" on the top left hand corner of the envelope
and addressed to the Deputy Registrar, Institute
of Technology, University of Moratuwa,
Katubedda, Moratuwa.
(iii) Application should reach the Deputy Registrar,
Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa
on or before the closing date for applications.
(iv) Two self-addressed 9" x 4" stamped envelopes,
should be enclosed along with the application
form.
(v) No copies or originals of the certificates should
be sent along with the application form. However
the contents of the application has to be certified
as indicated. (see cages : 6, 7 & 8 in the form of
application)
4.2 Field Preference :
(i) There are two SETS of fields.
(ii) Applicants may apply to either Maritime Studies
(SET 1) or Other Fields (SET 2) or Both sets of
fields. The preference must be indicated if
candidate applies to both sets of fields.
(iii) SET 1 – Insert order of preference as 1 for First
preference and 2 for Second preference. This
should be completed only by the candidates who
are applying for Maritime Studies.
(iv) SET 2 – Insert order of preference as 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7 "1" for the "most preferred", "2" for the next,
and so on "7" for the last preferred.
5. (i) Application Fee.—  Application fee SET 1 or SET 2 is
Rs. 200. SET 1 and SET 2 is Rs. 400. A receipt of payment in
favour of "Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa, A/C
No. 0000308280 of Bank of Ceylon, Katubedda Branch" to the
value of Rs. 200.00 (Rupees Two Hundred) for each set of fields
of study (Rs. 400.00 if applying for both sets of fields), obtained
only from any branch of the Bank of Ceylon should accompany
each application. This application fee is non-refundable.
(ii) Closing Date.—  The closing date of applications is
26.05.2008.
6. Aptitude Test.—  Applicants, short-listed according to the
G. C. E. (A. L.) performance in each district will be called for an
aptitude test that will be conducted at the Institute of Technology,
University of Moratuwa.
7. Registration.—  (i) Candidates selected for admission will be
required to produce the originals of the following certificates on
the date of registration :
* G. C. E. (A. L.) Certificate
* Certificate indicating G . C. E. (A. L.) Z-Score
* School Leaving Certificate
* Birth Certificate
* Affidavit in support of any change in names appearing
different documents/certificates.
8. Very Important :
(i) A candidate once registered for the National Diploma in
Technology Course will not be eligible for admission to
any other course in this University or in any other
University in Sri Lanka (Except Open University of Sri
Lanka) or in any other Higher Educational Institute under
the Ministry of Higher Education during the tenure of
the course.
(ii) A candidate who has registered in this University or any
other University in Sri Lanka (Except Open University
of Sri Lanka) or in any other Higher Educational Institute
will not be eligible for registration.
Director.
Institute of Technology,
University of Moratuwa,
11th April 2008.
For office use only
Application No. District
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
A
PPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO THE NATIONAL DIPLOMA IN
TECHNOLOGY COURSE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF
MORATUW A
Academic Year – 2008/2009
Application For
(a) Maritime Fields (SET 1) Please tick (  /)
One or Both
(b) Other Fields (SET 2)
(All cages must be completed in English BLOCK CAPITALS
only)
01. Name with Initials :

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'04'25
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.04.2008
481
02. Contact Address : ...............................................................
..............................................................
Telephone No. ......................................
(Please enclose two self-addressed
9'' x 4'' Stamped envelopes)
03. Date of Birth : 04. Sex : Please tick (  / )
Year Month Date Male Female
Age as at 31.12.2007
YY MM DD
05. National Identity Card No.
06. Results of G . C. E (Advanced Level) Examinations :
Subjects & Details of Grades & Details
Examination obtained at the
1st attempt 2nd attempt 3rd attempt
Year : 2005 Year : 2006 Year : 2007
Physics
Chemistry
Combined Mathematics
Advanced Mathematics
Index No.
Medium (Sinhala or
Tamil)
Z-Score
Results of year to be considered for Selection
(indicate whether 2005 or 2006 or 2007)
07. School(s) attended from Year 11 to 13
Year Name & Administrative Period of
Address of District Attendance
 School From To
YM D Y M D
11
12
13
1st Attempt
2nd Attempt
3rd Attempt
08. Certification of Results and School attended :
It is compulsory to certify the results under No. 06 and
details under No. 07 in the application By the School
Principal for the School Candidates and by a Justice of Peace
for External Candidates.
I certify that the particulars given above by the candidate in
the cage 6 and 7 are true and accurate according to their
original certificates.
Name of the principal/Justice of the peace : Rev./Dr./Mr./
Mrs. ...................................................................................
Office Stamp
......................., .....................
Signature. Date.
09. Field Preference : (*See instruction)
SET 1 SET 2
Maritime Fields Prefer. Other Fields Prefer.
Marine Engineering Chemical Engineering
Technology Technology
Nautical Studies and Civil Engineering
Technology Technology
Electrical Engineering
Technology
(Special Medical Test and Electronics & Telecom
Interview for SET 1) Eng. Technology
Mechanical Engineering
Technology
Polymer Technology)
State Priority, SET 1 Textile & Clothing
if applied for Technology
both sets SET 2
Please tick ( / )
10. Are you registered as a fulltime student
in any other university under the UGC
(other than Open University) or any
Higher Educational Institution under the
Ministry of Higher Education ?
11. Applicant's Declaration :
(i) I declare that I am not a fulltime registered student at any
University (except Open University of Sri Lanka) or any
Higher Educational Institution under the Ministry of
Higher Education.
(ii) I certify that all the particulars given by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am aware that if any
particulars given by me in this application are found to
be false or inaccurate prior to my admission, my
application will be rejected and that if such information
is found to be false or inaccurate after my admission,
I will be discontinued from the course.
(iii) In the event of my being selected for admission after the
Test, I shall abide by the Statutes, By-Laws, Regulations
and Rules of the Institute of Technology, University of
Moratuwa in so far as they are applicable to me.
Yes No.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'04'25
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.04.2008
482
(iv) I am aware that if I am found to be registered in another
University (except Open University) or any other Higher
Educational Institution under the Ministry of Higher
Education for over 30 days at the time of sitting for the
Aptitude Test for the National Diploma in Technology
Course, I will not be selected for the Course.
—————————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :———.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Paste your Cash Deposit/Cash Transfer Original Slip here.
04-715