

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.02.2011
173
173
wxl 1"693 - 2011 fmnrjdß ui 11 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'02'11
No. 1,693 – FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 11, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 176
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 178
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 18th February, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 03rd
February, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-II(A) of the Gazette No. 1,692 of 03.02.2011 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.02.2011
174
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.02.2011
175
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.02.2011
176
Posts – Vacant
GOVERNMENT  FACTORY  DEPARTMENT
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan male candidates
possessing the minimum qualifications stipulated in this
Identification for filling 03 vacancies of Mechanical Superintendent
IIB (Sri Lanka Technological Science) in the Government Factory
Department.
01. Method of Applications :
01.01 Applications should be prepared in A4 size paper using
both sides according the specimen application given below
and should be sent under registered cover to "The factory
Engineer, Government Factory, Kolonnawa" to reach him
before 11th March, 2011. The post applied for should be
clearly indicated on the left hand top corner of the envelope
in which the application is enclosed.
01.02 Applications received after the last date for receiving
application will be, rejected. Applicants are advised to
post the application in time to avoid delays in the post.
01.03 If any particulars contained in the application are found
to be false prior to recruitment, the candidature of the
applicant will cancelled. If such false information is
detected after recruitment he will be dismissed from
service.
Important.– Receipt of application will not be acknowledged.
Applications without the prescribed qualifications and those not
properly completed will be rejected.
02. Educational qualification .– Pass  in the same sitting in the
G . C. E. (A Level) Examination in 3 Science subjects including Pure
Mathematics/Applied Mathematics/Combined Mathematics and
Physics and a pass in the G . C. E. (O Level) Examination in Six (06)
subjects in not more than 2 sittings with credit passes for language
or Literature, Mathematics, Science and another subject.
03. Professional qualification.– The candidate should possessed
one of the following qualifications :
(i) National Technological Diploma (Mechanical) Certificate
awarded by the Moratuwa University or the Ampara
Hardy Institute ; or
(ii) National Engineering Diploma (Mechanical) awarded by
the National Apprentice and Technical Training Institute ;
or
(iii) National Higher Engineering Diploma (Mechanical)
awarded by the Education and Higher Education Ministry ;
or
(iv) T echnological Diploma (Mechanical) awarded by the Sri
Lanka Open University ; or
(v) Successful completion of Part I of the Mechanical
Engineering Examination conducted by the Sri Lanka
Engineering Institute ; or
(vi) Possession of other technological qualifications recognized
by the Sri Lanka Technological Services most and similar
in all respects to the technological qualifications referred
to above in consultation with the Ministry of Higher
Education and the institutes which issue the above
Technological Certificate.
04. Other qualification.– Should be males of excellent character
and good physique.
05. Salary Scale.– Will be placed in the salary scale
Rs. 15,005- 180x4 - 240x6 - 320 x 11 -360 x 20 - Rs. 27,885
under MN3-2006 of Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006(IV).
06. Age Limit.– Not less than 18 years of age and not more than
40 years as at 11.03.2011 (The maximum age limit will not apply to
those already employed in the public service or the Provincial
Public Service.
07. Method of Recruitment .– The qualified candidates will be
subjected to a written competition test and the candidates obtaining
highest marks will be subjected an interview for selection of suitable
candidates. No marks will be assigned at the interview and only the
qualifications will be examined. A minimum of 40% marks should
be obtained for each question paper. The subjects and subject
recommendations for the examination are as follows :
(1) Technological Knowledge (01 hour)
Questions to test the level of technological knowledge, a
diploma or similar certificate holder should passes and
depicted as recruitment qualifications pertaining to the
fields of casting metals, machining, fitting, welding, motor
mechanics, carpentry and maintenance, will be included.
(2) General knowledge and Intelligence (01 hour)
* Geographical changes, history, policies, sports and
recent events of importance in Sri Lanka (including
successes achieved internationally),
* Important incidents of the world, Geographical,
demarcations, main cities, International Organizations
and their functions.
* Power of comprehension, ability of logical discursive
cognition, power of intelligence, ability to take correct
decisions instantly, ability to solve arithmetical and
mathematical problems, utilizing language phrases,
tables, pictures, graphs and examination of same will
be tested.
08. Implantation of the official language policy.– All public officers
join up the service after 01.07.2007 should, within 5 years, gain
proficiency in another official language in addition to the recruitment

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.02.2011
177
language, in terms of Public Administration and Home Affairs
Circular No. 07/2007 of 28.04.2007.
09. Conditions of service :
09.01 This post is permanent and pensionable. Contribution.
should be made to the Widows and Orphans/Widowers
and Orphans Pension Fund.
09.02 The selected candidates shall be subjected to the
provisions of the Establishments Code Financial
Regulations and rules and regulations issued by the
line Ministry and the Government Factory.
09.03 Provisions in paragraphs 10 to 12 of Chapter II of the
Establishments Code will apply.
09.04 The appointment will be subject to a probation period
of three (3) years.
10. Candidates employed in the Public or Provincial Public
Service should submit their applications through their Heads of
Departments.
W. M. K. R. S. R. F
ERNANDO,
Factory Engineer,
Government Factory,
Kolonnawa.
Application Form
APPLICATION FOR POST OF MECHANICAL
SUPERINTENDENT IIB OF THE GOVERNMENT
FACTORY DEPARTMENT
For office use only
01. (i) Last name with initials :–––––––––––.
(ii) Names indicated by initials :–––––––––––.
(iii) Name with initials (in English) :–––––––––––.
02. Address and Telephone Numbers :
(i) Office address :–––––––––––.
Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
(ii) Private address :–––––––––––.
Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
(Any change in the address and the telephone Number
should be informed immediately)
03. Date and place of birth :–––––––––––.
04. Age on the last date for receiving applications :
 Years :––––––––––, Months :––––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
05. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
06. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka :–––––––––––.
07. (i) Male/female :–––––––––––.
(ii) Married/Single/Widower :–––––––––––.
08. Educational qualifications :
Examination/ Y ear Subjects Grade Name of Institute/
Diploma University
09. Professional qualifications :
Examination/ Y ear Subjects Grade Name of Institute/
Diploma University
10. Other qualifications :–––––––––––.
11. Ethnicity (mark the assigned number in the cage) :
Sinhala : 1
Sri Lankan Tamil : 2
Sri Lankan Muslim : 3
Of Indian origin : 4
Other : 5
I certify that the particulars given by me in this application are
true and correct, I am aware that if any of the particulars contained
herein are found to be false or in correct prior to selection, I shall be
disqualified and if detected after appointment, I am liable for
dismissed without any compensation.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
(This part will apply only to those in state service and trainees) :
C
ERTIFICA TE OF THE HEAD OF DEPARTMENT/INSTITUTE
I certify that Mr. ........................ who has applied for the post
of ..................... is at present employed/under training as a ..................
in the Ministry/Department/Institute of ....................... and that
his work and conduct are satisfactory. He is can be/cannot be released
from service if he is selected for this post.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
Frank :–––––––––––.
02–271

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.02.2011
178
ATTORNEY  GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Post of Temporary Acting State Counsel
APPLICATIONS are invited for the above post. Application forms can be obtained from the office of the Attorney-General's Department
Colombo 12 for this purpose.
(a) Salary Scale.– Rs. 28,095 (per mensum).
(b) Educational and other qualifications .– Should be an Attorney-at-Law of the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka.
(c) Method of recruitment. – Recruitment will be made by calling for applications and upon the recommendations made at the
interview in accordance with the marking scheme approved by the Public Services Commission. Eligible candidates will be selected at the
interview after considering their qualifications, performance, experience and the abilities in the relevant field.
(d) Terms of engagement.– This post is not permanent and is non pensionable.
Applications should reach Attorney General's Department before 4.00 p. m. on 14th March, 2011.
By order of the Cabinet,
LALITH WEERA TUNGE,
Secretary to the President.
Colombo,
25th of January, 2011.
02–259
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
Amendment
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  AND  SKILLS  DEVELOPMENT
Competitive Examination for Recruitment for the Posts in Class III (Special Cadre) of
Sri Lanka Technical Education Service
THE following paragraphs of the Government Gazette Notification No. 1,689 of 14th January, 2011 Part I (Section IIA) - Advertising for
Competitive Examination for Recruitment for the Posts in Class III (Special Cadre) of Sri Lanka Technical Education Service sho uld be
amended as follows :
Paragraph 4(C) : Should be amended as follows.– Should not be less than 21 years and not more than 45 years of age as at the
closing date of the applications. The upper age limit does not apply to the officers, already in the Government Service.
Paragraph 5.– "A degree obtained from a recognized university in the relevant field with three (03) years teaching/industrial
experience in the relevant field" should be included in sub paras 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6, 5.7 and 5.12.
Paragraph 05.11(i) should be amended as follows :
A degree obtained from a recognized university in Business Administration or Public Administration or Commerce.
S. S. HEW APATHIRANA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skills Development.
Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skills Development,
"Nipunatha Piyasa",
No. 354/2, Elwitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05.
26th January, 2011.
02–209

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.02.2011
179
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  AND  SKILLS  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Technical Education and Training
ADMISSION OF STUDENTS TO NVQ LEVEL 5 DIPLOMA COURSES
CONDUCTED A T COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY – 2011
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible candidates for courses conducted in Colleges of Technology appearing in this Gazette Notification.
Students for admission will be selected from among applicants according to the qualifications and merit and the place available in each course.
02. The prospective candidates are advised to prepare their own applications on a 13" x 8" sheet of paper in accordance witht the
"Specimen Application Form" given in this notification. As specified in item 14 in the specimen application form, each application should
be affixed with a valid Rs. 10 stamp duly cancelled with the candidate's usual signature. Duly completed applications should be sent under
Registered cover to reach the Director of the respective College of Technology to which admission is sought to reach him on or before
05.03.2011.
03. The top left hand corner of the envelope should be marked with the title of the course applied for, an its course code.
04. Applications received after the prescribed date will be rejected.
05. Fee of Rs. 2,000 will be charged for part time/evening course per year.
06. All courses are conducted in English medium.
07. Attention of all candidates is invited to the Schedule of courses appended at the end of this notification, which indicates the
nature of courses, eligiblity requirements for each course, the colleges where the courses are conducted. The addresses of Coll eges of
Technology are shown in the List of Colleges of Technology.
08. A candidate seeking admission to follow a course in these colleges of Technology should –
(i) be of excellent moral character,
(ii) be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(iii) have fulfilled all the eligibility requirements for admission at the time of forwarding the application.
09. Suitable candidates will be selected on the results of an aptitude test and an interview.
10. Any documents or copies thereof, should not be submitted along with the application. Those candidates who fail to produce
the necessary and acceptable documents to prove their eligibility at the interview will be deemed disqualified.
11. * Subject to a maximum of Rs. 1,000 per month a stipend of Rs. 50 per day for attendance to classes will be paid to those who
follow any full time course depending on parental income,
* Selected full time day course students, from low income families are paid a bursary of Rs. 2,500 per year.
12. The candidate is held entirely responsible for the authenticity of his/her documents. Candidates who submit documents that
have been tampered with or forged or not proved in fact will be severely dealt with.
13. To conduct all courses or several courses in this gazette notification for the academic year 2011, in Colleges of Technology are
subject to discretion of he Director General of Department of Technical Education and Training.
Candidates can apply for more than one curse using separate application forms.
Dr. C
HITHRAL AMBAW A TTE,
Director General,
Department of Technical Education and Training.
P. O. Box 557,
Olcot Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
www.dtet.gov.lk

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.02.2011
180
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY NVQ LEVEL 05 DIPLOMA LEVEL COURSES, ACADEMIC YEAR – 2011
For Official use only
01. Name of the college of Technology applied :––––––––––––.
02. Name of the course :––––––––––––. (full time day/evening/part time)
03. Course Code No. :––––––––––––.
04. Applicant's Name with initials :––––––––––––.
05. Names indicated by initials :––––––––––––.
06. Permanent address :––––––––––––.
07. Contact Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
08. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
09. District :––––––––––––. Electorate :––––––––––––.
Divisional Secretariat :––––––––––––.
Gramaniladari Division :––––––––––––.
10. Date of birth :––––––––––––.
Age as at 01.01.2011 :
Years :––––––––––––, Months :––––––––––––, Days :––––––––––––.
11. Male/Female :––––––––––––.
12. Qualifications for admission, mention your qualifications in the relevant cage according to the Gazette Notification :
Admission qualifications for course/Details of certificates
Name of Certificate NVQ Level Name of the Institute, Details of Service
Received followed the course Experience Y ear     Month
13. Educational qualifications :
(a) G . C. E. (O/L) results (not more than two attempts) :
Index No. Year Subjects Grade
(b) G . C. E. (A/L) results :
Index No. Year Subjects Grade
14. Applicant's declaration :
I hereby certify that the informations given in this application are true to my knowledge and I have obtained the qualification s
required for the course applied for. Further, I agree with the scheme of selection of students to Colleges of Technology and to accept the
decision of the Director General of the Department of Technical Education and Training as final.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :––––––––––––.
Stamp to the value of Rs. 10 should be affixed here and cancelled by signing on it.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.02.2011
181
THE LIST OF COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY
Serial Colleges of Technology Address District
No.
01 Sri Lanka College of Technology , Maradana Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10 Colombo
02 College of Technology , Galle Kaluwella, Galle Galle
03 College of Technology , Kandy Aruppola, Kandy Kandy
04 College of Technology, Jaffna Browns Road, Jaffna Jaffna
05 College of Technology, Badulla Greenlane Drive, Badulla Badulla
06 College of Technology, Anuradapura New T own, Anuradapura Anuradapura
07 College of Technology , Kurunegala Puttalam Road, Kurunegala Kurunegala
08 Hardy College of Technology , Ampara Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Ampara
09 College of Technology, Ratnapura Plam Gardens, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Ratnapura
ADMISSION OF STUDENTS TO NVQ LEVEL 5 DIPLOMA LEVEL COURSES CONDUCTED AT COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY
Serial Course Name of Course Conducted Adm ission Qualification
No. Code No. and the nature College of * Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 certificate
Technology for below mention courses
* Age level should be more than 17 years
01 ETB 01 T elecommunication Technology Galle * Computer Hardware Technician
Full time day one year * Computer Network Technician
* Radio, TV and allied equipment Repairer
02 ETB 04 Mechatronics Technology Maradana, * Radio, TV and allied Equipment Repairer
Full time day one year Galle * Computer Hardware Technician
* Electrician
* Pneumatic Technician
* Automobile Technician
* Automobile Electrician
* House Hold Electrical Appliances Repairer
03 ETB 06 Construction Technology Badulla, * Construction Craftsman (Masonry)
Full time day one year Kurunegala * W ood craftsman (Building)
Anuradapura * Construction Site Supervisor
* Plumber
ETB 06.1 Construction Technology Galle, Ampara * Industrial Plumber
Weekends/Part time * Painter (Building)
(No. of allocated hours for * Draughtsperson
NVQ Level 5) * Assistant quantity Surveyor
04 ETB 07 Automobile Technology Ampara, Jaffna, * Automobile Mechanic
Full time day one year Kurunegala, * Automobile Electrician
Kandy * Automobile Painter
* Motor Cycle Mechanic and Three-wheeler
Mechanic
* Three-wheeler Mechanic
05 ETB 08 Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Anuradapura, * Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Mechanic
Technology Ratnapura * Automobile Air Conditioning Mechanic
Full time day one year * Automobile Electrician
* Household Electrician Appliances Repairer
* Electrician
06 ETB 09 Farm Machinery Technology Anuradhapura * Tea Factory Mechanic
Full time day one year * Agriculture equipment Mechanic
* Automobile Mechanic
* Machinist
* Construction equipment Mechanic

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.02.2011
182
07 ETB 10.1 Bio Medical Equipment Maradana * Bio Medical Technician
Technology * Radio, TV  and Allied Equipment Repairer
Part time * Electrician (NVQ Level 4 only)
08 ETB 11 Information and Communication Maradana, * Information and Communication Technician
Technology Kandy, Galle, * Computer Application Assistant
Badulla, * Computer Graphic Designer
Full time day one year Ratnapura, * Computer Hardware Technician
Jaffna, * Desk Top Publisher
Kurunegala * Computer Network Technician
09 ETB 12 W elding Technology Ma radana * W elder
Full time day one year * Metal fabricator
* Automobile Tinker
* Fitter (General)
10 ETB 14 Food Technology Kandy * Baker
Full time day one year * Fruit and Vegetable Processor
* Cook
11 ETB 15 Jewellary Design and Maradana * Jewellary Maker
Manufacturing Technology * Jewellary Stone Setter
Full time day one year
12 ETB 16 Production Technology Kandy * Aluminium Fabricator
Full time day one year * Machinist
* Tool, Die and Mould Maker
* Welder
* Metal Fabricator
* Fitter (General)
02–303
–––––––––––––––
Serial Course Name of Course Conducted Admiss ion Qualification
No. Code No. and the nature College of * Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 certificate
Technology for below mention courses
* Age level should be more than 17 years
DEPARTMENTAL  EXAMINATION  FOR  PRELIMINARY  GRADE
MEDICAL  OFFICERS  AND  DENTAL  SURGEONS – MARCH - 2011
IT is hereby notified that the Departmental Examination for Preliminary Grade Medical Officers and Dental Surgeons which should  be
passed by Preliminary Grade Medical Officers before promotion to Grade II in terms of Section 07 of the Minute of Medical Offic ers in
the Health Services, published in the Gazette (Extra Ordinary)  No. 662/11 of 17.05.1991 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka, and which should be passed by Dental Surgeons before confirmation in the service will be held on 27.03.2011 in Sinhala, Tamil and
English medium. The venue and the time of the examination will be notified along with the Admission Card.
02. Qualifications.– Preliminary Grade Medical Officers and Dental Surgeons who have not completed the relevant examination
can apply for this examination.
03. Applications.– Applications prepared by the candidates as per specimen appended to this letter should be sent under
registered cover to reach the Director (Examinations), Ministry of Health "Suwasiripaya", No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero
Mawatha, Colombo 10, on or before 13.03.2011 through their Heads of Institutions. The Head of Division should certify the accur acy
of contents in each application. A self addressed envelope in the size of 9" x 4" inches, affixed with stamps to the value of Rs. 30.00 should
be sent along with the application. (Candidates can write their official or private address). Applications which are received l ate,
incomplete or inaccurate will be rejected.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.02.2011
183
Note.– The application should be prepared using an A4 paper based on the specimen form of the application so as to
recommended from 01 to 04(c) on the first front page and from 04(d) to 08 on the second page. Application which do not
conform to above will be rejected any information.
04. Examination fees :
(i) Candidates who sit the examination for the first time need not pay examination fees. However, in every subsequent
sitting they should affix stamps to the value of Rs. 25 per subject in the stamps cage provided for in the application and
cancel same by placing their signature and the date.
(ii) The fees once paid will not be allowed to transfer for any other Examination or refunded under any circumstances.
05. Admission to the Examination:
(i) Candidates whose applications have been accepted will be issued with Admission Cards. They should duly complete
and submit same to the Supervisor at the Examination Centre. Otherwise they will not be allowed to sit the examination.
(ii) Candidates should prove their identity to the Supervisor at the examination hall. For this purpose one of the following
documents will be accepted :
(a) National Identity Card ;
(b) Departmental Identity Card ;
(c) Driving License ;
(d) Passport.
(iii) If you did not receive your admission card due to any unavoidable reason you can trace your examination centre and the
index number through the web site ; If you were able to trace your examination centre and the index number as mentioned
above you are permitted to be presented at the examination centre in the web site together with a letter attesting your
signature by your immediate superior officer and sit the examination by establishment of your identity. (Web site :
www.health.gov.lk).
06. Scheme of the Examination.– The examination will consist of three written question papers and a Sinhala/Tamil Viva Voce
test. Each part will receive 100 Marks. Candidates should score a minimum of 50 marks for a pass in each part. The Examination can be
completed at one sitting or at several sittings.
07. Syllabus of the Examination :
7.1 Written Examination :
7.1.1 Establishments Code :
Duration 02 hours. Should answer five (05) out of eight (08) questions. Total marks 100.
Syllabus :
(i) Establishments Code :
(a) Part I - Chapters II, III, V , VI, VII, VIII, IX, XI, XII, XIII, XV , XXIV , XXV , XXVII, XXVIII, XXX, XXXI,
XXXII, XXXIII
(b) Part II - Chapters XLVII and XLVIII ;
(ii) General Regulations of the Department of Health Services ;
(iii) Orders of the Public Service Commission.
7.1.2 Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries :
Duration 1 1/2 hours. Total marks 100. Should answer four (04) questions out of seven (07) questions.
Syllabus :
Health Manual :
Part I - Medical Services
Part II - Laboratory Services

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.02.2011
184
7.1.3 Accounts :
Duration 02 hours. Should answer 04 questions out of 7 questions. Total Marks 100.
Syllabus :
(i) Financial Regulations -
Chapter I - All Sections
II - All Sections
III - All Sections
IV  - All Sections
V - Sections 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6
VI - All Sections
VII - Sections 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 ;
(ii) Regulations of Stores Accounts of the Department of Health Services ;
(iii) Sections of Finance in the Manual of the Department of Health Services ;
(iv) Financial Regulations relating to the daily routine duties of a Medical Officer of Health.
7.2 Viva Voce - Sinhala/Tamil – The Staff Officers in the Department of Health Services will conduct this Examination in
Colombo to examine the proficiency in Sinhala/Tamil Language. Total Marks 100. Skills of Officers to discuss on matters
pertaining to their daily routine duties will be examined.
8. Please bring the contents of this circular to the notice of all relevant officers in your Division/Specialized Compaign/
Institution. The information is also available in the Web Site - www.health.gov.lk
H. S. F
ERNANDO,
Deputy Director General (Admin.) 02,
for Director General of Health Services.
Ministry of Health,
"Suwasiripaya",
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
27th January, 2011.
Specimen Form of Application
For Office Use Only                
DEPARTMENTAL EXAMINATION FOR PRELIMINARY GRADE
MEDICAL OFFICERS AND DENTAL SURGEONS - MARCH - 2011
01. (a) (i) Name of the Applicant (In Sinhala or Tamil with initials at the end) :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Name of the Applicant (In English Capitals with initials at the end) :
(iii) Names denoted by initials (In English Capitals) :
  (b) (i)  Designation (Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon) :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Date of Internship Appointment :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Date of appointment to the Preliminary Grade :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.02.2011
185
02. Subjects offered (Mark ‘ 3’ within the cages against the subjects you offer in this Examination. Mark "X" against the subjects not
offered) :
Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries Accounts
Establishments Code Sinhala Viva Voce
Tamil Viva Voce
03. Medium you sit for the examination (Sinhala/English/Tamil) :––––––––.
04. ( a) Present Station :–––––––––––.
(b) District of the Present Station :–––––––––––.
(c) Please mark  " 3" in the relevant cage of the examination centre you prefer out of the following centers. (If any or several
examination centres, out of those given below, would be cancelled due to a departmental requirement or due to absence of a
sufficient number of candidates. In such an instance, the candidates already attached to such centers would be re-attached to a
closest examination centre or to another centre as decided by the Director General of Health Services).
Colombo Kandana Hambantota
Kaluthara Galle Badulla
Kurunegala Anuradhapura Rathnapura
Kandy Batticaloa Jaffna
Ampara Vavuniya
(d) Whether a self-addressed envelop in the size of 9x4 inches with stamps affixed to the value of Rs. 30.00 has been attached to the
application to post the Admission Card? :––––––––––.
(e) (i)  Postal Address to post the Admission Card (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
(ii) Postal Address to post the Admission Card (in English Capitals) :––––––––––––.
05.  (a) Whether you sit for the examination for the first time :––––––––––––.
(b) If not so, have you affixed stamps to the application? :––––––––––––.
Stamp Cage
06. Certificate of the Candidate :
(i) I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge and I nee d
not affix stamps since I sit the Examination for the first time/have affixed stamps to the value of Rs. ………… since I repeat
the Examination*, and the stamps affixed by me to the application are genuine and not used.
(ii) I agree to abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by the Department of Health for the conduct of this Examination and
if I was found ineligible in accordance with the scheme of the Examination I agree with whatever decision taken for the
cancellation of my candidature.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.02.2011
186
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
07. Certification of Head of Institution :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss …………is well known to me and in the application are correct in accordance with the particulars available in
his/her* personal file and he/she* is eligible to sit for the examination he/she* sits the Examination for the first time/repea ts the
Examination* he/she* need not affix stamps/has affixed stamps to the value of Rs.……… to the Application and he/she* placed his/ her*
signature in my presence.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Institution/Frank/Rubber Stamp.
Date :–––––––––––.
08. Certificate of the Head of Decentralized Unit/Specialised Campaign :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss …………… serves as a Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon* in my Division/Campaign* and the particulars
furnished by him/her* in the Application are correct in accordance with the particulars available in his/her* personal file and  he/she* is
eligible to sit for the Examination.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Decentralized Unit/
Specialised Campaign (Frank/Rubber Stamp).
Date :–––––––––––– .
02–237