

<!-- page 1 -->

1109 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.22
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.09.2006
1109
¡â¤ 1, 464 _ 2006 ÌæÀà”æ´Ú 22 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2006.09.22
No. 1,464 – FRIDAY,  SEPTEMBER  22,  2006
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1112
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1113
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29th September, 2006, should reach the Government
Press on or before 12 noon on 15th September, 2006.
L
AKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2006.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.22
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.09.2006
1110
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1
proficiency Test in one of the Official languages within one year;
Grade II Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency
Test (where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads
of  their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from
Public officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the
Public  Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications
should  state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take
up the new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

1111 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.22
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.09.2006
Rules And Instructions For Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi)You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
B 4 – B 079357

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.22
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.09.2006
1112
Posts - Vacant
RECRUITMENT  OF  POLICE  CONSTABLES,  WOMEN
POLICE  CONSTABLES  AND  POLICE  CONSTABLE
DRIVERS  FOR  THE  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
AS per the Government Gazette Notification Number 1452 of
30.06.2006 in connection with the above Recruitment, the closing
date of Applications has been extended till 30.09.2006.
Inspector-General of Police.
Police Headquarters,
Colombo 01.
09-713
POST  OF  ASSISTANT  BIO  MEDICAL  ENGINEER
(ELECTRICAL)
Ministry of Health Care and Nutrition
APPLICATIONS  are invited for the post of Assistant Bio Medical
Engineer (Electrical) in the Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
Applications prepared as per form of specimen should be sent under
registered cover to reach the Secretary Ministry of Healthcare and
Nurtition, No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10 on or before 25th October, 2006. The words “Post of
Assistant Bio Medical Engineer (Electrical) in the Ministry of Health”
should be written on the top left hand corner at the envelope enclosing
applications.
01. Educational Qualifications:
 A Degree from a recognized University on Electronic/  Electrical/
Mechanical Engineering.
Note.— Provided the applicant is having other professional
qualifications in addition to the Degree in the relevant field action
will  be taken to place him on an appropriate salary scale.
02. Age Limit :
Should be not less than 21 and not more than 45 years of age
(The maximum age limit will not apply for those who are already in
the public service).
03. Anual Salary Sacale :
Rs. 22,935 -10x645-8x790-17x1,050—Rs. 53,555 (S.L. 1-2006).
(In terms of P.A. Circular No. 06/2006).
04. Service Conditions :
(i) The post is permanent and selected officer is entitled to a
pension under Contributory Pension Scheme.
Exception
Provided an officer holding a pensinable post prior to
01.01.2003 is selected to the post  he/she is furhter
entitled to a pension under the pension Minute and he/she
would  be required to contribute to the widows/widower’s
and  orphans’ Pension Fund.
(ii)Section form 10-12 in Chapter II of the  Establishments
Code will apply.
05. Method of Recruitment :
Selection will be made based an merit order of the results of a
written competitive examination following a public notification.
06. Eligible persons will be selected based on the results of a
competitive examination, in accordance with the provisions in PA
Circular No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990.
Appicants who are already in the public service should submit
their applications through the relevant Heads of Department.
07. Applications will not be acknowledged. Applications which
do not conform in every manner to the requirements of this letter
will be rejected.
By Order of the Public Service Commission,
R
ANJITH  MALIGASPE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrution.
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrution,
‘Suwasiripaya’,
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mw.
Colombo 10
08th September, 2006.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
P
OST  OF  ASSISTANT  BIO MEDICAL  ENGINEER  (ELECTRICAL )
M INISTRY  OF  HEALTH  CARE  AND  NUTRITION
01. (a) Name with initials :———,
(b) Names denoted by initials :———,
02. Address :———,
(a) Permanent :———,
(b) Official :———,

<!-- page 5 -->

1113 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.22
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.09.2006
(Officers in the Government Service/Provincial Public Service/
Corporation should write their official address and any change of
address should be informed forthwith).
03. (a) Date of Birth :———,
(b) Age as at the closing date of applications :———,
Years :———,   Months :———,  Days :———,
04. Sex :———,
05. Whether married or single :———,
06. Educational Qualifications :———,
07. Service particulars :———,
Post Institution Date of Permanent/
Appointment T emporary
I do hereby certify that the informations furnished by me in this
applications are true and correct. I am also aware that if any informa-
tion furnished by me in this application was found false or incorrect
after appointment I am liable to be disqualified and dismissed from
the post without any compensation.
...........................
Signaturer of Applicant.
Date :
05. Recommendation of Head of Department :
...........................
Signaturer of Head of
Department and Designation.
Date :
09-733
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS  IN  CLASS  II  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANT’S
SERVICE - 2006 (I)
REFERENCE above examination notice published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,459 dated
18.08.2006.
02.   It is hereby notified that the closing date  of applications stipulated in paragraph 5.0 of the above examination notification is
amended as 09th October, 2006.
A. NOBERT ,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affiars.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affiars,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
05th September, 2006.
09-714

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.22
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.09.2006
1114
RECRUITMENT  OF  STUDENTS  FOR  TRAINING  IN  THE  PROFESSIONS  SUPPLEMENTARY  TO
  MEDICINES  IN  THE  MINISTRY  OF  HEALTHCARE  &  NUTRITION — 2006
APPLICATIONS are invited from the eligible citizens of Sri Lanka for recruitment to the training in the Professions Supplementary to
Medicine in the Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
01. Applicants will be given opportunity to select the course of their preference based on the qualifications and a priority list
prepared on the ‘Z’ Score marks of the General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination 2003 and 2004.
02. Selection will be made based on district population ratio depending on the number of students to be recruited for training.
03. Since this is a full-time course, the students who attend to courses on 05 working days of the week and forenoon on Saturday
should not apply for the course.
04. The relevant courses and the period of training are given below :
Code No. Course Period of Training
01 Pharmacist 02 years (One year practical training)
02 Medical Laboratory Technologists 02 years
03 Physiotherapists 02 years
04 Radiographers 02 years
05 Occupational Therapists 02 years
05. Educational Qualifications.—It is compulsory that the candidates should have passed 03 subjects at least in the Science stream in one
sitting at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination with credit pass for the specified subject for each training course. Qualifications required for each
training course are as follows :
Code No. Training Course G.C.E (A/L) G.C.E. (O/L)
Qualifications Qualifications
01 Pharmacists GCE (A/L) Examination with GCE (O/L) Examination
02 Medical Labouratory a credit pass for Chemistry in Six subjects inclusive
Technologists and two of the following of English Language at
subjects in one sitting not more than two
Combined Maths, Physics, sittings with credit
Biology and Agricultural passes for Sinhala/Tamil
Science Language, Mathematics
and one more subject
03 Physiotherapists GCE (A/L) Examination with GCE (O/L) Examination
04 Radiographers a credit pass for Physics in six subjects inclusive
05 Occupational and two of the following of English Language at
Therapists subjects Combined Maths, not more than two
Chemistry, Biology and sittings with credit
Agricultural Science passes for Sinhala/Tamil
Language, Mathematics
and one more subject
06. Other Qualifications :
(a) Should be not less than 18 and not more than 30 years of age as at 15.10.2006.

<!-- page 7 -->

1115 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.22
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.09.2006
(b) Should agree to serve in any part of the island.
(c) Should be physically fit and healthy.
(d) Should be a resident for a period of 03 years within the district from which the applicant submit his/her application.
07. Method of Application :
(a) Applications should be prepared as per form of application attached to this letter. Applicant should affix stamps to the
value of Rs. 50 on the “Stamps Cage” in the application and cancel them by placing his/her signature.
(b) The signature of the applicant should be attested by an officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Education Service/
Government Accountants Service/Principal of a Government School/Justice of the Peace/Attorney-at-Law or by a
Government Officer drawing a salary not less than Rs. 124,080 per annum.
(c) The applications perfected should be sent under registered cover to reach the Director (Administration) 02, Ministry of
Healthcare and Nutrition, “Suwasiripaya”, 385, V en. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10, on or
before 15.10.2006. The term “Recruitment of Trainees to Posts in the Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition” should be
written on the left hand corner of the envelope enclosing  applications.
08. Applications of those who are serving in government or semi-government institutions should be sent through their Heads of
Department.
09. Applications will not be acknowledged.
10. Applications received after the due date will be rejected.
11. Applications which do not confirm to the requirements of the notice will be rejected.
12. Applicants who have fulfilled educational and other qualifications above, will be called for interviews. The applicants should
submit originals of the following documents at the interview. The candidature of those candidates who fail to submit originals of the relevant
documents at the interview will be cancelled.
(a) Certificate of Birth
(b) Originals of the educational certificates, and in the absence of originals, the results sheet issued to external candidates or
the original of the letter issued to the applicant by the Principal of the school from which the applicant sit for the
examination.
(c) Certificate issued by the Departament of Examinations indicated the GCE (A/L) Examination marks level.
(d) National Identity Card/Passport/Driving Licence.
(e) Certified copies of the V oters Lists 2003, 2004, 2005 to confirm the residence of applicant within the district for a period
of 03 years. If the name of the applicant is not available in the V oters List, his/her parents names should be available and
such applicants should submit the Grama Seva Certificate countersigned by the Divisional Secretary in addition to the
certified copies of the V oters Lists.
13. Scheme of Training :
(i) Selected candidates will be admitted to the respective training schools of the training courses in para 04 above. Candidates
should follow the courses in English medium.
(ii)The trainees will be subject to the rules and regulations in force within the Training Schools and other regulations enforced
from time to time by the Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
(iii)The training of these trainees who fail in the examinations or whose work and conduct is unsatisfactory or who fail to
comply with the conditions of examination and leave in their schools of training during the period of training is liable to
be stopped at any time without payment of any compensation.
(iv) Trainees will be paid an allowance during the period of training.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.22
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.09.2006
1116
(v) The trainees when entering into the Schools of Training should enter into an agreement with the Director General of
Health Services to the effect that the trainee shall complete the training successfully without  leaving the same and if given
an appointment after completion of training shall serve the Department of Health Services for a minimum of 10 years
period. In the event he/she withdraws from the training or leaves the training or had to be discontinued from the training
as per para (iii) above during the period of training, he/she shall refund to the Department the expenditure incurred for the
payment of allowances and other expenses borne by the Government during the period of his/her training. Otherwise
action will be taken to recover such expenses incurred by the Department.
14. Terms of Engagement.—The Department is not bound to grant permanent appointments at the end of the training. However,
the trainees who succeed in the final examination will be given appointments to the Class III of the relevant post, depending on the vacancies
available in any part of the island based on their merits. They should serve in their original station for 02 years from the date of their first
appointment.
15. When filling in applications the educational and other qualifications should be entered with due care. Provided that certificates
so furnished were proved to be false or incorrect after recruitment for training or after giving appointments, action will be taken to
discontinue from the training or to dismiss from the service and also to backlist their names which prevent them from re-entering to the
Government Service.
16. The selected candidates should undergo a medical examination, to assure their physical fitness to serve in any part of Sri Lanka
and those who are proved unfit in the said medical examination will become disqualify to continue with their training.
17. All the officers so recruited will be subject to the provisions of the Establishments Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka, policies enforced by the Department of Health Services, other regulations and rules and regulations and orders enacted from
time to time by the Government.
18. The decision of the Secretary Health will be the final in respect of any issue arose out of the recruitment to the training which
does not cover by this Gazette Notification.
R
ANJITH   MALIGASPE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition,
No. 385,
Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
01st September, 2006.
Application
 RECRUITMENT OF STUDENTS FOR TRAINING IN THE PROFESSIONS SUPPLEMENTARY TO MEDICINES IN THE
MINISTRY OF HEALTHCARE AND NUTRITION - 2006
01. (a) Name with Initials (in block capitals) :————,
(b) Name in full (in block capitals) :————,
02. Postal Address :————,
03. (i) Permanent Address :————,
(ii)District :————,
(iii)Are you a permanent Resident in the District ? Yes/No. :————,
(iv) If yes, how long ? :————,

<!-- page 9 -->

1117 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.22
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.09.2006
04. Date of Birth :
Year :————, Month :————, Date :————,
Age as at 15.10.2006  Years :————, Months :————, Days :————,
05. Whether Male or Female Male
(Mark “ ” in the relevant cage) Female
06. Are you a citizen  of Sri Lanka Y es
(Mark “ ” in the relevant Cage) No
07. National Identity Card No. :————,
08. Marital Status :————,
09. Educational Qualifications :
(a) General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination :
(science subject only) (please attach copy of mark list) :
District appered for this Examination
Year :————, Index No :————, Z Score :————,
(b) General Certificate of Education (Ordinary  Level) Examination :
First sitting
Year :————, Index No :————,
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01. 07.
02. 08.
03. 09.
04. 10.
05. 11.
06. 12.
Second Siting
Year :————, Index No :————,
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01. 07.
02. 08.
03. 09.
04. 10.
05. 11.
06. 12.
Subject Grade

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.22
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.09.2006
1118
10. Have you been convicted by a Court of Law for any charge ? Y es
(Mark “ ” in the relevant cage)
No
If “Yes” please furnish details :———
11. Certificte of Applicant :
(a) I do hereby certify  that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge and
I am not undergoing any fulltime course at present.
(b) I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified
before selection, and to dismissal without compensation if the inaccuracy is discovered after the selection.
Stamp
——————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date:————,
12. Attestation :
I do hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss................................................................. is personally known to me
and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on this day of.......................................2006.
——————,
Signature of the Attestor.
with official seal.
Date:————,
Details of Attestor :
Full Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address  :————.
09-720
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA