

<!-- page 1 -->

wxl 2"050- 2017  foieïn¾ ui 15 jeks isl=rdÞ - 2017'12'15
No. 2,050-  FRIDAY , DECEMBER 15  2017
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
    PAGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors                               ...
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations ... —
By-Laws ... —
Posts - Vacant ...     —
         P
AGE 
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... 2582
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
2581  
N.B.—    Part IV (A) of the Gazette No.2,049 of 08.12.2017 was not published. 
 
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
 All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
 All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  05th January, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22nd December, 2017.
 Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 G
ANGANI LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer (Acting). 
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
B 81235- 5,403 (12/2017)
 

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'15
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 15.12.2017
2582
Annex 01
AMENDMENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Posts of Technical Ofﬁ cer (Civil /                
Electrical) / Draughtsman of the Sri Lanka Technological Service of the North Western 
Provincial Council Public Service – 2017
THIS is in addition to the Gazette Notiﬁ cation dated 22.09.2017 relating to the examination for recruitment to the above 
posts. It is informed that the syllabus mentioned under paragraph  6.1 of the said Gazette Notiﬁ cation should be amended 
as follows :
6.1  Syllabus :
01. Intelligence Quotient Test (Duration 01 Hour – 100 marks)
 This test will be comprising of multiple choice and structured questions to test language skills, numerical skills and 
logical ability of the candidates.
02. Subjective Technical Test (Duration 03 Hours – 100 marks)
(A)   Technical Ofﬁ cer (Civil) Grade III, Technical Ofﬁ cer (Civil) One Year Trainee Grade :
Comprising of the questions to judge the inborn skills of applicants on fundamentals of building construc-
tion, preparation of construction plans and the understanding of such plans, water supply and drainage 
and sewage systems.
(B)   Technical Ofﬁ cer (Electrical) Grade III, Technical Ofﬁ cer (Electrical) One Year Trainee Grade :
 Ability to understand an electrical circuit after reading , knowledge on the regulations to be followed 
during electrical installations, knowledge on Preparation of estimates for electrical circuits relevant to 
constructions, renovations and maintenance.
 (C)    Draughtsman – One Year Trainee Grade :
 Questions to test the knowledge on architecture, drawing according to the scale, understanding of an 
architectural plan or a rough drawing, fundamental knowledge on built environment, knowledge  on             
quantity surveying, basic knowledge on geometrical and mechanical drawings will be included in the 
paper.Candidates should bring the geometrical equipment and other equipment required to answer the 
paper.
  P
ADMINI KARIYAWASAM,
  Secretary,
  North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission,
  Provincial Council Of ﬁ ce Complex,
  Kurunegala.
23rd November 2017.
12 - 508
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.