

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.09.2014
w;s úfYI
wxl 1879$20 - 2014 iema;eïn¾ ui 12 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'09'12
No.1879/20  - FRIDAY   SEPTEMBER  12, 2014
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
 SABARAGAMUW A  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
OF  THE
DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF   SRI  LANKA
(Ministry of Law and Order, Finance and Planning, Local Government, Health and Indigenous Medicine, Women Affairs,
Co-operatives, Trade and Food, Transport and Estate Welfare, Environment, News, Housing and Construction)
Co-operative Employees' Pension Statute No. 02 of 2014 of the Sabaragamuwa Province Provincial Council
Honourable Chairman of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council certified on 22.07.2014
Honourable Governor of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council assented on 06.08.2014
Printed by order of the Sabragamuwa Province Provincial Council
SABARAGAMUWA  PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA
Co-operative Employees'  Pension Statute No. 02 of 2014 of the Sabragamuwa Privincial Council
The Co-operative Employees' Pension Statute No. 02 of 2014 of the Sabaragamuwa Province Provincial Council which is
passed  by the Sabaragamuwa Province Provincial Council on 24.06.2014 and assented to by the Honourable Governor of the
Sabargamuwa Province on 06.08.2014 is hereby published for the information of the public.
L
ALITH DODAMKOTUWA,
Council Secretary,
Sabaragamuwa Province Provincial Council.
At the Sabaragamuwa Province Provincial Council,
10th  September 2014.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.09.2014
2A
DRAFT
PROPOSED  CO-OPERATIVE   EMPLOYEE'S    PENSION   SCHEME    STATUTE   OF   THE
SABARAGAMUW A  PROVINCE
 Co-operative Employees' Pension  Statute No. 02 of 2014 of the Sabaragamuwa Province
Provincial  Council
A statute to provide for the establishment of a pension scheme for the Co-operative Employees of
Sabaragamuwa Province by the Commissioner and the Registrar of  Co-operative Development of the
Sabaragamuwa Province and to provide for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
Be it enacted by the Provincial Council of the Sabaragamuwa Province as follows :
01. This statute may be cited as the Co-operative Employee's Pension Scheme Statute No. 02 of
2014 of the Sabaragamuwa Province and shall come into operation on such date as the
Governor of the Sabaragamuwa Province Provincial Council may appoint.
PART - 1
Establishment of the Co-operative Employees' Pension Scheme.
02. 1. There shall be established a Scheme which shall be called the Co-operative Employees'
Pension Scheme to  be operated in compliance with the provisions of this statute.
II. This pension scheme be a body corporate and shall have perpetual succession and a
common seal and may sue and be sued in that name and do such things as may be
necessary to implement this  statute .
03. I. The function of administration of Co-operative Employees' Pension Scheme will be
assigned the Director, Co-operative Employees' Pension Scheme who is holding the
office of the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of
Sabaragamuwa Province during the period of time concerned.
II. The Director shall be held responsible for the administration and supervision of
functions and duties of this Scheme.
III. The Minister may appoint an advisory Committee which shall consist of he following
seven members to advise and make recommendation to the director with regard to the
management and administration of all matters connected with the Scheme. Among
these members the members mentioned in the sub-Section E of Section 3.1V shall be
nominated by the Minister.
IV . The advisory committee shall consist  of :
(a) The Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the subject of co-operative of the
Sabargamuwa  Province Provincial Council.
(b) The Deputy Chief Secretary (Finance) of the Sabaragamuwa  Province  Provincial
Council.
(c) The Commissioner General of Labour or an executive officer of his department
nominated by him.
Short title and date
of operation
Establishment of
the Co-operative
employees' pension
scheme
Should be a body
corporate
Appointment of the
director
Functions of the
director
Appointment of the
advisory committee

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.09.2014
(d) The Secretary of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council Co-operative Employees'
Commission.
(e) Chairmen of Ratnapura and Kegalle District  Co-operative Boards.
(f) A serving or retired co-operative society employee of Sabaragamuwa Province
who possess over 20 years of service and who is not found guilty at an legal
inquiry (should be appointed).
V. The staff necessary of the purpose of implementing the pension scheme should be
appointed only out of the officers employed in the Co-operative Development
Department of Sabaragamuwa Province.
04. I. (a) The term of office of the members of the advisory committee mentioned in the
sub Section (a), (b), (d) and (e) of section 3.1V shall be limited to until they hold
their official posts.
(b) If the advisory committee member that may be appointed under sub-Section (c)
of the section 3.1V of this statute is the Commissioner General of Labour himself,
the term officer is until he hold his official post. Where an executive officer  of
the labour department is nominated by the Commissioner General of Labour,
shall unless he vacates office earlier by reason of death or resignation or removal.
hold office for a period of 03 years.
Provided, earlier nomination ceases to valid when the Commissioner General of
Labour is nominated another person.
(c) Every appointed member to the advisory committee under Sub Section E of the
Section 3.1V shall unless he vacates office earlier by reason of death or
resignation by a letter addressed to the Minister or removal by the Minister,
hold officer for a period of three years.
II. Where an appointed member to the advisory committee as per sub Section E of
Section 3.1V vacates office as aforesaid, some other  person shall be appointed in his
place having regard to the provisions of sub section 3.111 and the member so appointed
shall hold office for  the unexpired period of the term of office of his predecessor.
III. Where an appointed member is temporarily unable to perform the duties of his officer
due to ill-health, absence from Sri Lanka or other cause, the minister may appoint
another person to act in his place.
IV . Any appointed member who vacates office other than a member who is removed from
officer shall be eligible for re-appointment.
05. The advisory committee may exercise all or any of the following powers.
I. To formulate policies to implement this scheme.
II. To advice the Director, on matters relating to the management, operation and
implementation of this Scheme.
III. To review the work of this scheme.
Functions of the
advisory committee
The Staff
Qualifications and
terms of office of
the members of the
advisory committee

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.09.2014
4A
06. I. The secretary to the ministry in charge of the subject of co-operative shall chair every
meeting of the advisory committee, where the secretary is absent from any meeting of
the advisory committee, any person shall be elected from an among the members of
the advisory committee to chair such meeting.
II. The director shall be the secretary to the advisory committee. He shall convene the
meetings of the advisory committee and such meetings shall be convened regularly
as may be required for the purpose of execution of function of the scheme under this
statute.
III. The advisory committee may act notwithstanding any vacancy among its members
and any act or procedures of the advisory committee shall not be deemed to be invalid
by reason of the existence of any vacancy among its members.
IV . The quorum of any meeting of the advisory committee shall be 04 members.
07. I. Such remuneration as determined by the minister may be paid to the director for
implementation and execution of the scheme.
II. The Director may with the approval of the minister pay remuneration to the members
of the advisory committee for attending the meetings of the advisory committee. The
director shall with the approval of the advisory committee reimburse to each of the
member such travelling and other expenses as he may incur for purposes connected
with the work of the advisory committee.
III. Such remuneration and other expenses as determined by the advisory committee may
be paid to the employees of the advisory committee.
PART II
Implementation of the Co-operative Employees' Pension Scheme
08. Any permanent co-operative employee who is appointed before the operation date of this
statute and still working, and is not less than 18 year and not more than 60 years of age shall
be entitled to join the scheme.
09. Every co-operative employee, who joins the permanent employment on or after  the date of
coming into operation of this scheme, shall compulsorily contribute to the pension scheme.
10. I. A co-operative employee who joins the scheme (hereinafter referred to as the
“Contributor”) shall be entitled to following benefits under the scheme on such basis
as may be prescribed by regulations.
(a) A periodical pension as may be prescribed.
(b) A periodical death gratuity as may be prescribed.
II. The basis of payment of a pension or gratuity shall be prescribed having regard to the
period of contribution, age of the contributor and the amount of contribution made by
the contributor.
Eligibility to join
the scheme
It is compulsory to
contribute to the
scheme
Benefits under the
scheme
Remuneration of
the director,
members of the
advisoty committee
and the staff
quorum
Meetings of the
advisory committee
Vacancy/vacancies

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.09.2014
11. I. the contributor shall be entitled to a pension once he attains 60 years of age. Provided,
that any contributor who has started making contributions irrespective of the fact
that he has completed the payment of required total contribution, shall be entitled to
the pension after the elapse of 06 months from the approval of the scheme.
II. The pension shall be paid up to end of the month in which the contributor dies.
12. In the event of the death of a contributor before he becomes entitled to receive his pension,
a death gratuity on such basis as may be required by regulations, shall be paid to the
surviving dependents.
13. I. Where it has been established through a lawful inquiry as per the Section 27 of the
statute, that any contributor before he becomes entitled to receive his pension has
caused any damage to the co-operative society or to the union, such contributor
shall not be entitled to any benefit or pension under this statute, provided such
contributor shall be entitled to remain in the scheme by reimbursing the damage to
the society or to the union in terms of the regulations which so require and the
provisions of Section 14.
II. (a) If a lawful inquiry as per the Section 13(a) or a court procedure is on against any
contributor for causing a loss to his/her employer, co-operative society or
union at the time of entitlement, the director possess the power to temporary
suspend the payment of a pension if any which may be paid under this statute
until such time the said inquiry or the office procedure is over.
(b) If a lawful inquiry which is taking place against the contributor under the
Section 13.11(a) is delayed more than 06 months, the contributor is paid the full
or part of pension with the approval of the advisory committee.
(c) If the contributor is acquitted in a lawful investigation to be conducted against him
he is entitled to receive the pension as from the date of his retirement.
14. I. The Director shall on enrollment of any co-operative employee as a contributor to the
scheme, issue him with a policy setting out the,
(a) contribution to be made by the contributor.
(b) Contribution made by the co-operative society or union.
(c) terms and conditions of the policy, and
(d) the benefits to which the contributor is entitled under the policy issued to him.
II. In the event of a default of payment of 3 consecutive installments or installments to
a given date, by a contributor, the contributor will not be entitled to the benefits
under the policy issued to him.
III. Where any contributor has forfeited the benefits under the certificate issued to him,
the director shall issue such contributor a notice to that effect.
IV . The contibutor shall have the right to make an appeal in such a manner as required by
regulations to the director to validate his policy and the director shall validate the
policy if he is satisfied that the reasons for failure to pay the installments were
beyond the control of the contributor.
Non-entitlement to
the pension
The director to
issue a policy to
each contributor
When the pension
is payable
Death gratuity
Non-entitlement to
the pension
4—PG 2164

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.09.2014
6A
V. Where the director decides to validate a policy the contributor shall be informed of
the date, prior to which the arrears in installments will have to be paid. The policy
should be considered invalid if he/she is unable to pay the contribution before such
date.
15. The contributor and the co-operative society or the union concerned shall made the
contributions under this scheme as may be required by regulations, The co-operative society
or the union shall collect the contributions made by the contributors of this scheme who are
employees of such society or union and shall remit same to the scheme in such a manner as
may be prescribed by regulations. The date prior to which the contributions have to be
made as per such regulations shall be specified and any co-operative society or union
which fail to make contributions on the specified date, shall be liable to a fine prescribed by
regulations.
16. I. Where the registration of any co-operative society or union has been cancelled for
the purpose of liquidation by law and the contributor has made contributions up to
the date of such cancellation the pensions shall be made on such basis and prescribed
by regulations.
II. Where any co-operative society or union has been integrated or amalgamated with
another co-operative society or union by law, it shall not be constructed as forfeiture
of the pension of the contributor under this scheme but be constructed as the
contributor continues to be in the scheme through his employer society or union.
17. The director shall, in accordance with the regulations prescribed determine the award of
benefits under the scheme to any contributor.
18. I. The minister may appoint a Board of Appeal consisting of the following five members
for any contributor who is not satisfied with the determination of the director to make
an appeal.
II. The composition of the board of appeal is as follows (Sabaragamuwa  Province Provincial
council)
(a) Deputy Chief Secretary (administration), of  the Sabaragamuwa  Province
Provincial Council
(b) Secretary of the Co-operative Employees' Commission of Sabaragamuwa
province.
(c) An executive officer of the Labour Department appointed by the minister in
consultation with the Commissioner-General of Labour.
(d) Two executive officers to be appointed by the minister having not less than 20
years service in  a co-operative society or union of Sabaragamuwa Province
and who are not found guilty at an legal inquiry (members appointed under
Section c and d above should not be members of the advisory committee.
III. The quorum of the meetings of appeal board should be 03 members.
IV . Any contibutor who is not satisfied with the determination the notice of such
determination, made an appeal to the board of appeal stating the ground of is appeal.
Liquidation of
co-operative
societies or unions
Amalgamation or
integration is not a
reason to forfiet the
pension
The director to
determine the award
of benefit
Board of appeal
Composition of the
board of appeal
The quorum
Appeal to be made
within 30 days
The contribution

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.09.2014
V. The decision of the board of appeal should be conveyed to the appellant within 90
days of receiving the appeal.
VI. The decision of the board of appeal on such appeal shall be final and effective.
19. No pension, gratuity or allowance payable from the scheme be assigned or transferred and
every assignment or transfer shall be absolutely null and void and of no effect. Except
under the powers of director or regulations made under this scheme or under this statute,
no such pension or gratuity or allowance shall be attached, prohibited or taken in execution
of writs on account of any debt or payment due by the person to whom such pension or
gratuity or allowance is payable.
PART III
Co-operative Employees' Pension Fund
20. I. There shall be established a co-operative employees' pension fund (hereinafter referred
to as the fund)
II. There shall be paid into the fund :
(a) Such sums and money as may be approved from time to time by the Minister in
charge of the Co-operatives of the Sabaragamuwa  Province Provincial Council
(b) Such sums of money as may be voted from time to time by the Sabaragamuwa
Provincial  Province Council for the operation of the scheme.
(c) Such sums of money as may be advanced or donated to the director from time
to time by the Sabaragamuwa  Province Provincial Minister in charge of the
subject of finance.
(d) All sums of money given by the Minister in-charge of the subject of
Co-operatives from the ministry allocations annually.
(e) All sums of money as may be received from a co-operative society or a union
from time to time or annually.
(f) All sums of money received in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this statute.
(g) All sums of money received from any source as gifts and donations.
(h) All sums of money paid as contributions to the scheme by the contributions
and co-operative societies and unions as monthly contributions.
(i) All sums of money including initial payments paid by contributor an the
co-operative society or union when an employees is enroll to this scheme.
(j) All sums of money earned as interest or profits from investments.
(k) All sums of money received from any source as gifts and donations and received
from any source at co-operative society or union to the fund and such sums of
money as may be advanced to the director by co-operative societies or unions
in the discharge of functions of this scheme.
Decision should be
delivered within 90
days
Pension, gratuity or
allowance not to be
assigned or levied
upon
Co-operative
employees' pension
fund

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.09.2014
8A
III. For the purpose of this fund, a current account should be maintained in a state bank,
all sums of monies received for the fund should be credited to this account.
IV . There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the advisory committee or the director in the exercise,
performance and discharge of the powers, duties and functions of the advisory
committee and the director under this statute and the sums of money required to be
paid out of the fund by or under this statute.
V. All the monies of this fund should not be utilize to any other activity except to pay co-
operative employees' pensions and related expenses.
21. All monies in the fund which are not immediately required by the director under this statute,
should be invested by the director with the concurrence of the advisory committee in a
state bank or in a state owned financial institution or in the District Co-operative Rural Bank
Union.
22. The director may with the concurrence of the advisory committee borrow by way  of bank
overdraft or otherwise obtain from any co-operative society, union or a state owned financial
institution on credit terms such sum as the director may require for the meeting of the
obligations of the director or carrying out of objectives of the scheme under this statute.
23. I. The financial year of the scheme shall be the calendar year.
II. The director shall cause books of the scheme to be balanced as on the 31st day of
December in each year and shall before 31st day of March next submit to the advisory
committee an income and expenditure account and balance sheet containing a
summary of the assets and liabilities of the scheme made up to the first mentioned
date.
III. The details mentioned in the 23.II paragraph should be submitted to the provincial
council before 30th June of that year.
IV . Accounts of the scheme should be audited every year by the officer provincial council
in charge of auditing or the auditor general according to the law.
PART IV
Other Matters.
24. I. The minister may make regulations in respect of all matters which are stated or required
by this statute and regarding the following matters.
(a) Regulation, administration and management of the scheme.
(b) The qualifications, conditions and circumstances in which and the restrictions
subject to which any co-operative employee shall be eligible to join the scheme.
(c) The determination of the amount of contribution to be made by the contributor
and by the co-operative society or union for such contributor.
(d) The determination of the basis on which pensions, gratuities or allowances are
payable to contributors.
Invetment of the
funds
Borrowing power
Financial year and
accounts
Accounts should be
submitted to the
provincial council
Auditing of
accounts

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.09.2014
(e) Conditions governing the default of payment of contributions.
(f) Regulation of the procedure and transaction of business of the advisory
committee.
(g) Making regulations and procedures regarding appeals.
(h) The termination or forfeiture of the pension entitlement certificate.
(i) The determination of the basis of payment and the amount of death gratuity.
(j) The prescription of relevant forms.
II. Every regulation made by the minister shall be published in the Gazette and come
into operation on the date of such publication or such later date as may be specified
in the regulation.
III. Every such regulation shall as soon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette
be brought before the provincial council for approval. Any regulation which is not so
approved, shall deem to be rescinded as from the date of such disapproval but
without prejudice to anything previously done thereunder. Notification of the date
on which a regulation shall deem to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
25. I. No civil or criminal suit or prosection shall lie against the director or the advisory
committee or the members of the advisory committee or appeal board for any act
which is good faith is done by the director, advisory committee or any member of the
advisory committee or appeal board.
or
II. Against any member of the advisory committee or the board of appeal or any officer
or employee who assists the implementation of the scheme for any act which in good
faith is done or purported to be done by him under this statute or on the direction of
the director.
26. Every person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this statute or of
any regulation made thereunder shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction after
a summary trial before a magistrate be liable to imprisonment of either description for an
term not exceeding 06 months or to a fine of Rs. 1,500/- or to both such fine and imprisonment.
27. In this statute unless the context otherwise requires.
“Provincial Council” means the Provincial Council of the Sabaragamuwa Province.
“Minister” means the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Minister in charge of the subject of
Co-operatives in that time.
“A Co-operative Society” means Co-operative Society/Association registered in the
Sabaragamuwa Province Co-operative Societies Statute  No. 03 of 2007 and Co-
operative Statute  No. 03 of 1994 read with Co-operative Societies No. 05 of 1972 as
amended by Act, No. 11 of 1992 and 32 of 1983.
“A Co-operative Association” means an association comprising several Co-operative
Societies registered in the Sabaragamuwa Province Co-operative Societies statute
No. 03 of 2007 and Co-operative statute No. 03 of 1994 read with Co-operative
Socieities Act, No. 05 of 1972 and amended by Act, No. 11 of 1992 and 32 of 1983.
Protection for
actions taken under
this statute or on
direction of the
dirctor
Offences
Interpretion

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.09.2014
10A
“The employee” means an employee who received a permanent appointment to a Co-
operative Society/Association as per the interpretation of the Co-operative
Employees' Commission act read with amendment Act, No. 51 of 1992.
“A lawful inquiry” means a disciplinary inquiry as per the provisions of the Co-operative
Employees' Commission Act, No. 12 of 1972 read with the amended Act,  No. 51 of
1992 or an inquiry conducted as per the provisions of the co-operative societies
Act. No. 3 of 2007 and No. 3 of 1994 read with Co-operative Societies Act, No. 05 of
1972 as amended by Act, No. 11 of 1992 and No. 32 of 1983.
28. In the event of any inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this statute, the
Sinhala text shall prevail.
09-1140
Sinhala text
toprevail in case of
consistancy
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.