

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2009
437
437
wxl 1"595 - 2009 ud¾;= 27 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'03'27
No. 1,595 – FRIDAY , MARCH 27, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 440
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 441
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  03rd April, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 20th March,
2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.—  Part  IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,594 of  20.03.2009 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2009
438
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2009
439
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) St andard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of
Examinations.Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2009
440
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars  of  Muslim Marriages
KEGALLE DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the  posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births  and Deaths in  the Divisions set  out in the  Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should  be permanent residents  of the said  Births, Deaths and  Marriages Registration Divisions  and  should
be  entitled  to properties  and have  acquired   sufficient interest and influence in the  area.
02. Muslim males  only can  apply  for these posts.
03. Applicants  should  be not  less than  21 years and not more  than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should  be married.
05. Details  regarding Educational and  other  Qualifications etc. could  be obtained  from the nitices exhibited in public plac es
such  as District Secretariats Land  and District Registries Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural
Development  Societies and Co – operative Societies in the  Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable  from  the offices  of District Secretaries  (Government Agents) and Land  and  District
Registries. Applications should  be sent by registered post    to the  address given  in the Schedule on or before 07 th  May
2009.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
27th March 2009,
Registrar General's  Department,
No. 234/A3,
Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
Schedule
District  Divisional Division and Post  for  Address to which
Secretary's which  applications Applications must
Division are  called be sent
Kegalle Mawanella Post  of Registrar of Muslim District Secretary
marriages in Add. Registrar
Uyanwatta Area of General District
Kinigoda Korale Secretariat
Galbada Kegalle
03-523

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2009
441
SRI LANKA POLICE DEPARTMENT VACANCIES IN THE  POST OF POLICE CONSTABLES / WOMAN POLICE
CONSTABLES AND POLICE  CONSTABLES DRIVER  - SPECIAL TASK FORCE POLICE  CONSTABLES  AND POLICE
CONSTABLES DRIVER
AS Per  the Government Gazette Notification, No. 1582  of 26.12.2008 in Connection with the  Above Recruitment the  Closing Date of
Applications 31.03.2009  and Applications  has  been Extended 03 Month Till 30.06.2009.
Inspector General of Police.
03-650
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  SRI  LANKA    AYURVEDIC  MEDICAL  SERVICE - 2009
IT’s hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination for Ayurvedic Medical Service (For Ayurvedic Medical Officers) will be held in
Colombo by the Department of Ayurveda.
01. Candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner of Ayurveda.
02. The application for this examination should be in the form of the specimen appendix to this notification and should be
prepared by the candidate him/her self. Application should be sent by those who are qualified according to the service minute o f the Sri
Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service, by the registered post through the respective heads of the institution to reach the Registrar, Examination
Division, Department of Ayurveda, Nawinna, Maharagama on or before 30.04.2009. "Efficiency Bar Examination  for  Sri Lanka
Ayurvedic Medical Service - 2009" should be indicated at the top left hand corner of the envelop containing the application. Applications
received after the closing date will be rejected.
The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time need not pay examination fees. However, stamps to the value
of Rs. 200  should be affixed for the whole examination for subsequent sittings and stamps to the value of Rs. 50 per subject  should be
affixed if not applying for the whole examination. The stamp should be duly cancelled by placing signature of the candidate and the date.
Under any circumstance the fees will not be refunded or transferred.
03. Identity of the candidates.-  Candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of
the supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of the following documents should be submitted to the supervis or :-
(i) The National Identity Card Issued by the Department of Registrar  of Persons ;
(ii) A valid Passport.
04. The Commissioner, Department of Ayurveda will issue the time table and admission card to all candidates whose applications
have been accepted. Candidates should get their signature on the admission card attested in advance and submit to the superviso r of the
examination hall. Candidates without admission cards will not be permitted to sit for the examination. If a candidate has not received his/
her admission card at least seven days(07) before the day of examination,  He/She should without delay inform the Register Examination
Division Department of Ayurveda, Nawinna, Maharagama about the non-receipt of admission cards along with the following information.
(i) Name of the Examination;
(ii) Full Name of the Candidate;
(iii) Postal Address;
(iv) Post Office, Registration Number and Date of dispatch.
05. Scheme of Examination : (According to the service minute of the Sri Lanka Ayurveda Medical Service) :
(i) Financial Regulation  One paper based on the following .-
(a) Financial Regulation of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka - Part I(Except chapter X)

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2009
442
(ii) Establishments Code  - One paper based on the following: -
(a) Chapters - I, II, III, IV , V, VI, VII, VIII, XII, XIII, XIV , XXIII, XXVII, XXIX, XXX, XXXII of the Volume I of
the establishments Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, and
(b) Chapters - XLVII and XLVIII of Part II of the Establishments Code of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka.
(iii) Hospital Administration  . - One paper based on the following  :-
(a) General rules and regulations relevant to in respect of hospitals.
(b) Cleanliness in hospitals.
(c) Rules and Regulations relevant to the patients.
(d) Supply proper meals to the patients.
(e) Administration of drug manufactures.
(f) Rules and regulations regarding  the admission of patients.
(g) Knowledge of the duties of all the employees in the hospitals.
(h) General administration  in hospitals.
(i) General administration of the Department of Ayurveda
(j) Regulations of the stores accounts of the Department of Ayurveda.
(k) Manual of procedure of the Department of Ayurveda.
(iv) Of ficial Languages - Oral test. Sinhal/Tamil (15 minutes)
(i) For officers who joined the service in the Sinhalese medium-
(a) Answering the Tamil questions in the Tamil Language
(b) Translate Tamil sentences Sinhala Language
(c) Translate Sinhala sentences Tamil Language.
(ii) For officers who joined the service in the Tamil medium -
(a) Answering the Sinhala questions in  Sinhala Language
(b) Translate Sinhala sentences  Tamil Language.
(iii) T ranslate Tamil sentences to Sinhala Language
Note - Candidate must obtain 40 marks to pass in each subject.
R. P. W. GUNAWARDANA,
Commissioner of Ayurveda.
DEP ARTMENT OF AYURVEDA.
Department of Ayurveda,
Nawinna,
Maharagama.
06th March, 2009.
Specimen Application Form
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR SRI LANKA AYURVEDA MEDICAL SERVICE - 2009
Index No.:
(For office use only)
Medium of Examination:
Write the relevant letter in the cage
Sinhala - S T amil - T
01. Name with Initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss.:–––––––––.
    (In Capital Letters)

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2009
443
02. Name with Initials :–––––––––.
   (In Sinhala/Tamil)
03. Names denoted by initials :–––––––––.
   (In capital letters)
04. Names denoted by initials :–––––––––.
   (In Sinhala/Tamil)
05. National Identity Card No.:
06. Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institute:––
   (In English Capital Letters)
07. Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institute:–––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil):–––––––––.
08. (i)  Post:–––––––––.
(ii) Number and date of the letter of appointment:–––––––––.
09. Subject/s you offer :
Number Subject Subject No.
10. Have you been passed the exam in previous sittings, any of the following subjects.
Financial Regulations/Establishment code/Hospital Management/Oral Examination(Tamil/Sinhala).
If, so, index No. and  Date :–––––––––.
11. Are you sitting the examination for the first time?:–––––––––.
   If not, value of the stamps affixed :–––––––––.
Stamp Cage
Stamp to the value of Rs. 200  for whole
Examination and Rs. 50 for each subject
Note .-  The candidate should affix stamps to the relevant value and cancel them by placing their signature and date. Stamps
should not overlap each other.
I declare that the above particulars are true that I am eligible to appear for the examination in the language medium indicated
above. I also certify that the Rs. …………… Stamps affixed hereto are genuine and have not been used before. I agree to abide by t he rules
and regulations of this examination.
———————,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :–––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2009
444
Note .-The candidate should sign in the presence of the Head of his/her Department/Institution or an officer authorized to sign
on behalf of such Head of the Department.
Attestation of the Signature
I do hereby certify that ……………who forward this application is an officer attach to my office/ known to me personally and
that he/she place his/her signature before me on …………….
——————,
Signature of the Attestor.
Name of the  Attestor  :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
03-563
MINISTRY   OF   FOREIGN    AFFAIRS
Competitive Examination for filling vacancies in the
Public Management Assistants' Service Cadre in Sri Lanka Missions abroad-2009
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited to fill vacancies in the home-based Public Management Assistants' Cadre in Sri Lanka Missions
abroad, from eligible officers of the Public Management Assistants Service, Provincial Public Management Assistants Service and Local
Government Public Management Assistants Service and to sit for the competitive examination conducted by the Commissioner-Genera l
of Examinations, on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to be held in Colombo.
2. Eligibility : Applicants should meet the following eligibility criteria.
(a) Should be an officer of the Class I or Class II of the Public Management Assistants Service, or class I or Class II of the
Provincial Public Management Assistants Service or the Local Government Public Management Assistants Service. Officers
in other Management Assistant Services not belonging to the above services are not eligible to apply.
(b) Age of the applicants should be less than 57 years on the closing date of applications.
(c) Applicants should have earned on the due dates all the annual increments, falling within the five years immediately preceding
the date of application.
(d) Should have not been subjected to any form of discplinary punishment, other than warning.
(e) At the time of the application, should not be attached to Sri Lanka Missions abroad.
Note :  (i) An applicant who is eligible at the time of forwarding his/her application and subsequently promoted to a Calss/Grade
higher than Class I of the Public Management Assistants Service/Provincial Public Management Assistants Service/Local
Government Public Management Assistants Service or appointed to a post in any other service, will cease to be eligible to
fill a vacancy in the Home-Based Public Management Assistants cadre at Sri Lanka Missions abroad. It is the responsibility
of such applicant to pormptly inform the secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the event of any change in his/her official
status that might have an impact on his/her eligibility under the clause (a) of this paragraph.
(ii) Preference will be given to officers with experience in accounts and establishment work and hava a good working knowledge
of English/other foreign languages. (Written and spoken) Working knowledge in other foreign languages will be considered as
an added qualification.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2009
445
(iii) Computer skills will be an added qualification and the extent of such skills must be stated in the application.
3.  Method of Selection.- Selection will be made on the basis of the written examination to be conducted by the Commissioner-General
of Examinations and the interview, which will be held in Colombo.
3.1  Written Examination :- The written examination will consist of the following papers each of which will carry 100 marks.
Subject No. Paper Duration
01 Accounting 2 hours
02 Establishment & Office Procedure 2 hours
03 English 2 hours
04 General Knowledge 1 hour
Note :0 1 Accounting.-This question paper which will consist of objective and subject type questions is set to test the candidate's
practical knowledge of financial operations and accounting procedures of a Government Institution.
02. Establishment and Office Procedure .-The question paper will be set in a manner to let the candidates select questions of
their choice. The questins in this objective and structured type of paper are set to test the candidate's practical knowledge
of establishment and office procedures of a Government Institution.
03. English.-This question paper is designed to test the candidate's knowledge in comprehension and written communication.
04. General Knowledge .- This paper will consist of questions on political, social, cultural and economic environment, history
and geography of Sri Lanka as well as current international affairs.
3.2 Interview :
3.2.1 The interview will carry 100 marks and will be conducted by a Board appointed by the Secretary, Ministry of Foreign
Affairs.
3.2.2 Those candidates who have obtained a minimum of 40 percent marks in each paper and a total aggregate of 200 or above at
the written examination will be eligible to be called for the interview. The Secretary, Ministry fo Foreign Affairs reserves the
right to call candidates with lesser marks for the interview, in case there are no sufficient qualified applicants with the above
mark levels at the written examination.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4.1 Candidates after being selected to fill the vacancies will be required to serve initially at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs  in
Colombo for a specified period of one year prior to being posted to a Sri Lanka Mission Abroad. If the work and conduct
of a candidate during this initial period of service at the Ministry are found to be unsatisfactory, his/her selection is liable to
be cancelled.
4.2 An officer selected on being posted to a Sri Lanka Mission Abroad, is normally required to serve abroad for a period of three
years on terms and conditions as stipulated by the Secretary, Ministry of Foreign affairs and to enter into an agreement to
that effect. On completion of the term, the officer will have to return to the Island.
4.3 The selected officers while serving at a Sri Lanka Mission will contnue to receive their substantive salaries paid in Colombo.
In addition, the officer will be paid an overseas allowance during their  period of service abroad.
4.4 The Government of Sri Lanka will meet the cost of air passage of the selected officer, from Sri Lanka to the country of
posting and back. Accommodation and other facilities as determined by the Secretary, during his/her service abroad will be
met by the Government only in respect of the officer, his/her spouse and for a maximum of two children who are under 21
years of age and dependent on the officer.
5. Method of Application :
5.1 The application forms prepared in an A4 size paper as per the specimen which is appended to this notification, containing
items from 01-05 on the first page, 06-14 on the second page and the rest on the third page. Applications which are not in

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2009
446
conformity with the specimen and those not providing the required details will be rejected without any notice. Applicants
are advised to keep photostat copies of applications. Applicants should satisfy themselves that their applications are in
conformity of the specimen application form. Sinhala and Tamil applicants should indicate the name of the examination in
English in addition to Sinhalese or Tamil.
Candidates should prepare the applications and should forward through the respective Head of Departments with the
recommendation and endorsement from Head of Departments   on the eligibilit of the application for service overseas and
the correctness of details given in the application. The Head of Department should also state whether the applicant if
selected, can be released immediately from the present post.
5.2 Applications should be forwarded by registered post to reach the "Commissioner-General of Examinations, Organization &
Foreign Examination Branch, Department of Examinations, Pelawatte, Battaramulla" on or before 24th April 2009 and
should be marked "Examination for Selection of Management Assistants to fill vacancies in Sri Lanka Missions Abroad" on
the top left hand corner of the envelope.
6. Examinations Fees - Examination fee of Rs. 300 should be paid at any post office to the credit of Revenue Head 4000-20-03-20-13 of
the Commissioner General of Examinations, and the receipt obtained should be pasted in the relevent cage of the application.
Details of the receipt such as number, date, amount and the post office should be indicated in the relevant cage of the
application. Receipt obtained by paying examination fees through any other mode or stamps or postal/money orders will
not be accepted. It will be appropriate to keep a photocopy of the receipt. The examination fees will not be refunded.
7. In complete applications will be rejected. No allegation that an application has been lost or delayed in the post will be co nsidered.
Applications received after the closing date will not be accepted.
8. Admission to sit for the Examination :
8.1 Applications will not be acknowledged.
8.2 The Commissioner-General of Examinations will forward Admission Cards to all those applicants whose applications were
accepted. A candidate presenting herself/himself for the examination must produce his/her admission card with attestation
of signature to the supervisor of the Examination Centre. A candidate who fails to produce his/her admission card as
mentioned above will not be permitted to sit for the Examination. As soon as the admission cards are dispatched to the
candidates a notification to tha effect will be published in the news papers by the Department of Examinations. As
instructed in the notification, the Department of Examinations should be informed in case the admission cards of any
candidate is not received within 2 or 3 days after the appearance of the paper notification. Such applicants should inform
the Department of Examinations about the non receipt of the admission card with a copy of the application form, the receipt
issued on payment of examination fees and the receipt issued on the registration of the letter enclosing the application form.
(In case of an appeal from out station, a fax number should be indicated in order to send the admission card.)
8.3 A candidate must sit for the Examination at the Examination Hall assigned to him/her. All candidates should surrender their
admission cards on the first day of the examination to the supervisor. A set of rules to be observed by all candidates is
published in the Gazette. The candidates are subjected to all rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations. If such rules or regulations are violated, the candidate should have to face penalty imposed by the Commissioner
general of Examinations.
9. Medium of Examination.-The Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English media. Candidates will not be allowed to
change the medium subsequently.
9.1 A candidate is required to answer all question papers in one language only, except the English Language paper.
10. Penalty for Furnishing False Information :
10.1 If any of the particulars furnished by a candidate are found to be false within his/her knowledge, or if he/she willfully
suppressed any material fact, he/she will be liable for dismissal from the Public Service, and therefore, he/she will be
ineligible to sit for the examination.
10.2 If a candidate is found to be ineligible to sit for this examination at any stage prior to, during or after the examination, his/her
candidature is liable to be rejected. The issued of an admission card to a candidate is not an acceptance of his or her eligilibity
to appear for the examination.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2009
447
11. Identity of Candidate :
11.1 A candidate will be required to prove his/her identity at the examination Hall to the satisfaction of the Supervisor for ea ch
subject he/she offers. For this purpose any of the following documents will be accepted :
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(b)  A valid Passport
PALITHA T. B. KOHONA,
Secretary/Foreign Affairs.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
P. O. Box 583, Republic Building,
Colombo 01.
12th March 2009
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
APPLICATION FOR THE COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR FILLING VACANCIES IN THE PUBLIC MANAGEMENT
ASSISTANTS CADRE IN SRI LANKA MISSIONS ABROAD
Part A
For office Use
Medium in which the applicant wishes to sit for the examination
Sinhala - 2,
Tamil - 3, (Give the relevant number in the Box)
English - 4
1.0  Name :
1.1 Name with initials :————.
(In English block letters)
Eg. : SILVA M. A.
1.2 Name in full (In English block letters) :————.
1.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :————.
2.0  Address : (In English block letters) to which Admission cards should be sent to :————.
2.1 Permanent Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :————.
Tel. No. :————.
2.2 OfficialAddress (In English block letters) :————.
Tel. No. :————.
3.0  Sex : Female - 1
Male - 0
(Give the relevant letter)
3.1 National Identity card No.:
3.2 Date of Birth :
Y ear Month Date

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2009
448
3.3 Age as at the closing date of application :
Years Months Days
4.0 Service (Public Management Assistants Service/Provincial Public Management Assistants Service/Local Government Public
Management Assistants Service).
(Delete whichever is inapplicable)
4.1 Date of first appointment to the Public Service/Provincial Service Local Government Service and Language medium. (Delete
whichever is inapplicable)
5.0  Civil Status (If married - 2, If single - 1)
      (Pl. mark the relevant number in the cage)
5.1 If married, number of children
Their dates of birth and ages :————.
6.0  If the spouse is employed, give details :————.
7.0  Educational Qualifications (with language medium) :————.
8.0  Date of Promotion to :
8.1 Class II :————.
8.2 Class I :————.
8.3 The Class to which the applicant is currently attached and the date of appointment for the same.
9.0 Present Annual Salary :————.
10.0   Experience (Give the number of years)
10.1 Accounts :————.
10.2 Establishment Procedures :————.
11.0 Proficiency :
Reading Writing Spoken
(a) Sinhala Language
(b) Tamil Language
(c) English Language
(d) Any other Foreign Language
12.0  Ability :
12.1 Typing (Sinhala/Tamil/English) :————.
12.2 Computer Literacy (Give details) :————.
13.0  If the applicant has previsously served at any Sri Lanka Mission Abroad, give the name of the Missions with dates :———.
14.0  Any other qualifications  :————.
1. Receipt No. :————.
2. Post Office :————.
3. Date :————.
4. Amount :————.
Note : The receipt issued by the Post Office on payment of examination fees should be affixed here.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.03.2009
449
15.0 Applicant's Certificate :
I do hereby declare that I have earned all increments falling due in the 5 years immediately preceding 24.04.2009 and have not been
subjected to any disciplinary punishment, except warning. I also declare that to the best of my knowledge the information furni shed in
this application is true and accurate. If any information is found to be incorrect or false, before, during or after the examin ation, the
Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the right to cancel my candidature/or appointment.
I also agree to be bound by the rules governing the examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior
to, during or after the examination, if it is found that I am ineligible according to the regulations of this examination.
————,
Applicant's Signature
Date :————.
PART B
(To be filled by the Head of Department)
I declare that I have verified that Mr./Mrs./Miss...................................................Class I/Class II of the Pub lic Management Assistants
Service/Provincial Government Public Management Assistants Service/Local Government Public Management Assistants Service.
(a) has earned all increments during the 5 years immediately preceding 24.04.2009.
(b) and has not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment  during the 5 years immediately preceding 24.04.2009 and
that the information furnished in the application is true.
Recommendation :
(i) Applicant's suitability for service in Missions abroad :
(ii) Whether he/she can or cannot be released, if selected
————,
Signature of the Head of
Department with the Official Frank.
Designation  :————.
Date :————.
03-693
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.