

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'08
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.10.2010
933
933
wxl 1"675 - 2010 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'10'08
No. 1,675 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 08, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 15th October, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 01st
October, 2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 934
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... —
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... 852
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Tamil version of this Gazette is separately printed.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'08
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.10.2010
934
Provincial  Council  Notifications
HAMBANTOTA  URBAN  COUNCIL
Entertainment Tax Ordinance
THE following resolution passed by the Urban Council in terms of Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Entertainment Tax ordinanc e
(Chapter 267) has been approved by the Ministry of Local Government in the Southern Province in terms of Sub-section (2) of tha t
Section and is hereby published in terms of that Sub-section.
RESOLUTION
By virtue of the powers vested by Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Entertainment Tax Ordinance (Chapter 267), the Urban
Council hereby, resolves to impose and levy, with effect from the 01st day of the following month of the month in which this re solution
is the Gazette, a tax equivalent to 7% (percent) of the payment made for admission to entertainments defined in the Ordinance (other than
Entertainment Tax) held in the area within the administrative limits of the council.
Provided that the tax levied upon a payment made to watch a film stall be 7% (percent) of that payment within the first two
years in which this resolution is in force.
M. W. WIJETHILAKA ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Local Government Southern Province.
At the office of Hambantota Urban Council,
06th April of 2010.
10–326
–––––––––––––––
DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBILC  OF  SRI  LANKA
Provincial Council of the Central Province
DRAFT OF THE PROPOSED INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENTERPRISE PROMOTION STATUTE OF THE
PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF THE CENTRAL PROVINCE
I herewith publish the above proposed draft of the statute which will be enforced in the Central Province Provincial Council fo r public
comments.
The statute will be submitted to the Central Province Provincial Council for approval after 10 days of this has published. If any
comments to be forwarded related to the contents of this statute should be forwarded to the below address within 10 days after this
notice.
ANUSHIA SIVARAJAH,
Minister,
Ministry of Industries, Sports, Women, Rural Development,
Estate Infrastructure Development, Hindu Cultural,
Youth Affairs and Education (Tamil).
P. O. Box 41,
Gatambe,
Peradeniya.
D
RAFT OF THE STATUTE FOR THE CENTRAL PROVINCIAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENTERPRISE PROMOTION STATUTE No. ............. OF 2010
Statute to carry out the Industrial Development and Enterprise Promotional services effectively and efficiently in the Central
Province while discharging the Industrial Development and Enterprise Promotion matters as set out under article No. 21 of List No. 01
in the Ninth Schedule to the 13th Amendment Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 1978 and to make
provisions for matters connected therewith.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'08
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.10.2010
935
Be it enacted by the Central Province Provincial of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
01. This state may be cited as the Provincial Industrial Development and Enterprise Promotion in Central
Province - Statute No. of 2010 and shall come into operation on such date as the Governor grants approval therefore.
PA RT I
02. There shall be established a Department called Industrial Development and Enterprise Promotion
Department for the industrial development and enterprise promotion in the Central Province (hereinafter in this
statute, referred to as "the Department)"
03. (i) Director of Industries (hereinafter referred to as the 'Director') shall be the head of the Department
established under Section 2. He/She shall be an officer in Class I of the Sri Lanka Administrative
Service and appointed by the Governor.
(ii) The provisions of the Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987, the circulars, rules and registrations
issued thereafter shall apply with regard to the appointment, transfers, promotions and disciplinary
control of the staff required of the functioning of the Department.
04. (i) There shall be a Deputy Director of the Industrial and Assistant Director of Industrial and other
officers appointed for the functions of the Department.
(ii) The powers and functions vested on the Director of Industries under this statute and any of the
powers functions that had been vested on him can be delegated to a Deputy Director of Industries.
05. (i) The Minister has the power to issue orders with regard to the implementation of the rules and
regulations made under the Provisions of this Statute.
(ii) When and appeal is made against the direction or decision issued by the Director of Industrial it is
lawful to change such directions or decisions by the Secretary to the Ministry using his discretion
under this statute. In every such occasion the decision of the Secretary shall be final and conclusive.
06. The vision and mission of the Department is to highly contribute of the steadfast Department in the
Central Province through putting into operating the project with novel concepts towards the entrepreneurship
department, Technical development and creative skills development, by turning in to and outstanding institution that
provides Industrial and Business Services for a High Technical culture in the Central Province.
07. (i) Making the Central Province an attractive region for the up lift of the economic benefits of the
Industrial ventures to a maximum level while developing the existing industries and starting new
Industries in the Central Province.
(ii) Enhancing contribution towards poverty eliminating through promotion of employment
opportunities in the Central Province with the enhancement of contribution to the National economy
by uplift productivity in the Industrial Sector and by improving the living standard of the employees
in the Industrial sector.
(iii) While giving priority to protect the traditional industries inherent to Central Province encouraging
to newly establish the micro, small and medium scale industries and to further extend the existing
industries.
08. It is the function of the Department to full the following services and requirements within the Central
Province.
1. Human resource development with high skills relating to Industrial sector.
2. Development of micro, small and medium scale Industrial Development.
3. Development of traditional industries.
Short title and date
of operation.
Establishment of
Industrial
Development and
Enterprise
Promotion
Department in the
Central Province.
Director of
Industries in the
Central Province.
Power can be
delegated by the
Director of
Industries.
Powers of the
Minister.
Powers of the
Secretary.
Vision and mission
of the Department.
Objective of the
Department of
Industrial
Development and
Enterprise
Promotion.
Functions of the
Provincial
Industrial
Development and
Enterprise
Promotion
Department.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'08
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.10.2010
936
4. Restoration of ailing industries.
5. Development of necessary infrastructure facilities for industrial development.
6. Technical development relating to industrial sector.
7. Industrial development relating to industrial sector.
8. Promulgation and implementation of rules and regulations conductive to industrial sector.
9. Establishment and development of industries based on agricultural products.
10. Productivity development in the Industrial sector.
11. Act as a mediator to raise technical financial facilities.
12. Implementation of training and research programmes relating to industrial sector.
13. Market development relating to industrial sector.
14. Promotion of alliance between the Government and Private sector.
15. Export promotion in the Industrial sector.
09. The department shall have powers necessary to achieve the objective of the Department under this
statute and to discharge the functions assigned to the Department, subject to the limitations under the written laws.
10. The Director of industries can make a request for a staff according to the needs of the Department arising
from to time.
PART II
ADVISORY BOARD IN THE CENTRAL PROVINCIAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND
ENTERPRISE PROMOTION DEP ARTMENT
11. (i) The Minister shall appoint a Provincial Advisory Board Provincial consisting eleven members for
the purpose of the purpose of obtaining instructions generally for industrial advisor the minister in
charge of Provincial Industrial Development and Enterprise Promotion affairs.
(ii) This Advisory Board is consisting of following persons :
1. Secretary to the Provincial Ministry of Industries.
2. Provincial Director of industries.
3. Tow representatives appointed by the Minister.
4. Assistant Director of National Crafts Council in charge.
5. Chairman export chamber of commerce.
6. A representative from the camber of commerce and industries in Central Province.
7. Proficient Technical Consultant of Government Technical Institute.
8. Chairman of the Provincial Crafts Council.
9. Head of the Department of the fine arts faculty in the University of Peradeniya.
10. One person for bank representation.
11. Central Provincial Assistant Director of the National Design Centre.
(iii) The secretary to the Ministry of Industries shall be ex-officio the Secretary of this Advisory
Board.
(iv) The Director of Industries shall be ex-officio the Secretary of this Advisory Board.
(v) The term of office of the members is 02 years.
(vi) In the event of a resignation or death or at the end of the term of office of a member or when the
minister dismisses a member the term of office of a member shall come to an end.
(vii) Members can be reappointed when the membership falling vacant for the reason of expiry of the
term of officer.
Powers of the
Provincial
Industrial
Development and
Enterprise
Promotion
Department.
Staff.
Provincial
Industrial advisory
board.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'08
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.10.2010
937
(viii) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall be seven members.
12. The functions of the Advisory Board are to submit appropriate observations, recommendations, advice
to the Minister in charge of the subject of industry and furtherance of service of the Department of Provincial
Industrial Department and enterprise promotion.
13. The advisory board shall meet at least once in three months.
14. (i) Within the meaning of the Bribery Act, the Department of Provincial Industrial Development an
Enterprise Promotion is a Scheduled institution and the provisions of the said Act, shall apply as
it is to this department.
(ii) All the officers and servants of the department shall protect the confidentiality within the limitations
of the law.
15. All officers and servants of the Department of Provincial industrial Development and Enterprise
promotion shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of and the purpose of the Penal Code.
PA RT III
OFFENCES AND PUNISHMENTS
16. Any person who contravenes the provisions of this statute any regulation made there under or willfully
obstruct any one who discharges the function under this statute shall be guilty of and offence under this statute.
17. The general law shall apply to all the offences committed under the regulations made under this statute
and accordingly the punishments imposed for such offences shall apply.
PA RT IV
GENERAL PROVISIONS
18. (i) All the assets and properties belonging to all the institutions within the province used for the
purpose of the functions of the Department prior to the date of this statue coming in to operation
shall be treated and properties vested on the Department of Provincial Industrial Department and
Business Promotion.
(ii) Save and except the matters under Sub section III the building and premises in the training,
marketing and service centers should not be utilized for any other for other purpose.
(iii) In the event of these institutions are required for any other purposes of common importance prior
approval of the Secretary or the Director of Industries should be obtained.
19. (i) The provisions of the Provincial Act, No. 42 of 1987 shall apply with regard to the granting of
financial provisions and expenses required to maintain the institutions established under this
statute.
(ii) There shall be no obstructions to obtain financial material aid from local and foreign resource for the
proper function of the Department subjects to the written provisions.
20. The Director shall submit an annual administrative report to the Minister within six month after every
year containing the manner in which the is being conduct within the province in each year, the problems arisen and the
steps to solve such problems.
21. The department shall be subject to the written general and special directives issued by the Minister in
the exercise of its powers and the department shall carry out such directives.
22. (i) The minister may make orders to discharge the policies and provisions contained in this statute.
(ii) Every order made by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette should be implemented on the
date of such publishing or with effect from a date after the date specified therein.
Function of the
advisory board.
The Department as a
Scheduled
institution.
Officers and servants
as public officers.
Offences.
Punishments.
Responsibilities of
the Department.
Institution used for
other common
matters.
Financial aid for the
operation of the
Department.
Annual
administrative
report.
Power of the
Minister to issue
directives.
Power of Minister to
made orders.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'08
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.10.2010
938
(iii) Every older publish in the Gazette shall be forwarded to the Provincial Council for approval and if
any order disapproval shall be deemed to be repealed to be repealed without prejudice to anything
made under that order.
(iv) Any such order repealed shall be published in the Gazette on the date on which it was deemed to be
repealed.
23. There shall be established new training and production services, sales centers and institutions congenial
to the development of industries in agreement with the minister based on the needs and expediency of the people in
the Central Province.
24. It shall be lawful for an officer of the Ministry of Department authorized by the Minister or the
Director to enter into any premises belonging to the Department and carry out insepctions.
25. In this statute unless the context otherwise requires :–
"Industries" means and include all the industries such as Micro, small and medium scale industries.
"Minister" means the Minister in charge of the subject of industries of the Central Province.
"Province" means the Central Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
"Provincial Council" means the Central Provincial Council.
"Secretary" means the Secretary to the Ministry of Industries in the Central Province.
"Director of Industries" means the Director in the Industrial Development and Enterprise Promotion
appointed to Central Provincial under the provisions Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987.
26. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil text of this statute the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Establishment of
new institution.
Power of
inspections.
Interpretation.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
10–306
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.