

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.01.2019
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2105$19 - 2019 ckjdß ui 09 jeks nodod - 2019'01'09
No. 2105/19- WEDNESDAY,  JANUARY  09, 2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A - G  29208 — 67  (01/2019)
Notice of Approval of the Establishment of Advisory committee for the areas declared under Section 3(1) of
the  Urban Development Authority Law No. 41 of 1978
NOTICE is hereby given to the General Public of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka under the statutory
provisions of the Urban Development Authority Law No. 41 of 1978 as amended from time to time that I, Patali Champika
Ranawaka, Minister of Megapolis and Western Development by virtue of the powers vested in me under Section 7 of the
Urban Development Authority Law No. 41 of 1978, have approved the establishment of a body called the Advisory
Committee (hereinafter referred to as the “Advisory Committee”) for all such areas declared by the Minister under
Section 3 as ‘Urban Development Areas’ for the purpose of advising the Minister and the Authority on any matters in
relation to;
(a) Regularizing urban development activities in order to plan, implement and enforce of development plans and  
taking actions thereof
(b) Appeals made to the Minister by ag grieved parties against r efusal to  grant a permit by the Authority under  
Section 8j (5)
(c) Committee shall do all such acts or thin gs that are incidental to or consequential  upon the exercise, discharge  
and performance of its powers, functions and duties thereon
The Advisory Committee shall consist of-
I. The Additional Secretary (Technical), Ministry of Megapolis & Western Development (Chairman)
II. The Director General, Urban Development Authority
III. The Additional Director General, Urban Development Authority
IV. The Deputy Director General (Planning), Urban Development Authority 

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.01.2019
2A
V . The Director (Legal), Urban Development Authority
VI. One of such persons shall be appointed as the Representatives of  the Chairman of the Advisory to
Committee to act in the capacity of Secretary, Convener and officer in Charge for reviewing case studies
to the committee
1. It shall be the duty of the Advisory Committee to tender advice on the future direction and strategy
to the Minister and make its recommendations thereon.
2. The Advisory Committee shall have power to fix and regulate its own procedure for the purpose of
carrying out and giving effect to the principles and provisions of the law.
3. The Minister may give special or general directions in writing as to the performance of the duties
and the exercise of the powers of the Advisory Committee, and the Advisory Committee shall give
effect to such directions.
4. The Authority may forward any matter to the Advisory Committee for its advice and the Advisory
Committee shall forward its advice within the shortest possible period.
5. The term of office of the members of the Advisory Committee shall be three years.
6. A member vacating his office by resignation or by the expiration of his term of his office shall be
eligible for reappointment
7. (a) Any member of the Advisory Committee may resign from office by letter to that effect
addressed to the Minister.
(b) Where a member is temporary unable to discharge the duties of his office on account of ill
health, absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the  Minister may appoint some other
person to act as a member in his place for the period of his absence.
8. The members of the Advisory Committee and other officers and servants may be paid such
remuneration out of the fund as may be determined by the Authority.
9. The Advisory Committee may with the approval of the Minister, appoint such officers or servants to
assist the Advisory Committee in carrying out its duties under this mandate.
P
A TALI C HAMPIKA  R ANAWAKA,
Minister of Megapolis and Western Development
02nd January, 2019
01 - 553
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.