

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price :  Rs. 6.00  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 03,  2009
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 31st August, 2009]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
LASANTHA ALAGIYAWANNA
FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
  ACT,  NO . 45 OF  2009

<!-- page 2 -->

1Lasantha Alagiyawanna Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 45 of 2009
2—PL 004155—3,250 (07/2009)
[Certified on 31st August, 2009]
L. D. — O. (Inc.) 25/2008.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  LASANTHA  ALAGIYAWANNA  FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “Lasantha
Alagiyawanna Foundation” has heretofore been formed in
Mahara and Aththanagalla for the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting the objects and matters
connected with the said Foundation according to the rules
agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the said application :
BE it therefor enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Lasantha Alagiyawanna
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.  45 of 2009.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the Lasantha
Alagiyawanna Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the
“Corporation”) or shall hereafter be admitted members of the
Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual
succession, under the name and style of “Lasantha
Alagiyawanna Foundation” and by that name may sue and
be sued with full power and authority to have and use a
common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. (1) The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to give physical and qualitative assistance and
encouragement to schools and to enable the school
children to achieve the required educational
qualification;
Short title.
Incorporation
of the
Lasantha
Alagiyawanna
Foundation.
Preamble.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Lasantha Alagiyawanna Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 45 of 2009
(b) to conduct special services for  needy school children
and to offer assistance by way of scholarships, library
facilities and other necessary support for studies;
(c) to organize educational programmes and classes to
assist students to prepare for public and other
examinations;
(d) to conduct workshops, discussions and seminars on
the matters of educational interest;
(e) to make provision to exhibit, imporve and appreciate
the cultural talents of school children and award
certificates to talented school children;
(f) to implement a special training programme to build
up a generation of children who appreciate values
and good conduct on practical terms;
(g) to conduct workshops, discussions and seminars to
train teachers of the Daham schools and the pre-
schools and to provide incentives to inaugurate pre-
schools with the approval of the relevant provincial
educational authorities if so required by law;
(h) to conduct leadership camps and workshops to
school children to build up leadership qualities and
to provide necessary skills to equip them for practical
living;
(i) to conduct a practical programmes which develop
patriotism in order to develop a generation of school
children with physical capability through a
programme of sanitation, health habits and a
programme for sports and physical education;
(j) to organize educational tours, shramadanas and
workshops, aimed at protecting Sri Lanka’s heritage,
environment and forestry;

<!-- page 4 -->

3Lasantha Alagiyawanna Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 45 of 2009
(k) to support and encourage the services provided by
senior citizens movements ;
(l) to give full support and assistance to informal
education programmes, special education
programmes and elders education programmes;
(m ) to encourage farmers engaged in traditional and
export oriented agricultural activities and to
conduct various activities to enable them to expand
their knowledge;
(n) to assist in various programmes implemented for
granting necessary facilities for the “Ranaviru”;
(o) to take action to provide self employment and
necessary support and training to the unemployed
youth community;
(p) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreign
institutions which have similar objects;
(q) to establish housing projects for the low income
groups, and to provide for their betterment;
(r) to develop religious places belonging to all the
religions;
(s) to assist needy people to obtain health facilities;
(t) to assist in the activities of societies established in
grama niladhari divisions; and
(u) to assist and act for the welfare of the pensioners.
(2) In the implementation of the objectives of this Act as
are specified in subsection (1), the Corporation shall ensure
that such implementation is carried out without distinction
based on race, caste, religion, language, sex or political
opinion.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Lasantha Alagiyawanna Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 45 of 2009
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the provisions of this Act and the rules of  the Corporation,
made under section 6, be administered by a Board of Directors
consisting of the Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer and eleven
members elected in accordance with such rules.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), the
founder member of the Foundation, Hon. Lansantha
Alagiyawanna shall be the first Chairman of the Board of
Directors.
(3) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Administration of the
Foundation holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act.
(4) A member of the Board of Directors shall unless he
vacates his office earlier by death or resignation, hold office
for a period of four years reckoned from the date of his
election.
(5) If any member of the Board of Directors vacates his
office prior to the expiry of his term, his successor elected in
accordance with the rules of the Corporation shall hold office
only for the unexpired term of office of the member who he
succeeds.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the furtherance
of its objects or any one of them, including the power to
acquire and hold property movable or immovable, to open,
operate and close bank account, to borrow or raise moneys
with or without security, to receive or collect grants or
donations, to invest its funds, to erect any building or
structures on any land held by the Corporation, and to engage,
employ and dismiss, officers and servants required for the
carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
General powers
of the
Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Lasantha Alagiyawanna Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 45 of 2009
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any General Meeting of the members and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the memebers present
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act or any other written law, for all or any of the
following matters :—
(a) classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable ;
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Board of Directors, the quorum for such meetings
and the exercise and performance of their powers
and duties ;
(c) the appointment, powers, duties and functions of
the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation ;
(d) qualifications required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the Board of Directors ;
(e) election of Board of Directors; and
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation made under this section.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation and all debts
Rules of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Lasantha Alagiyawanna Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 45 of 2009
due to and subscriptions and contributions payable to the
foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gifts,
bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grants
for and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited to
the credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as the
Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property both movable or immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of purchase, grant,
lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act and be subject to the rules  of the Corporation made
under section 6 and the Corporation shall have full power to
sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the
same.
10. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation be
liable to make any contribution exceeding the amounts of
such membership fees as may be due from him to the
Corporation.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of its debts and liabilities any
property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation, but shall be given or
transferred to some other institution or institutions having
objects similar to those of the Corporation and which is, or
are by its or their rules prohibited from distributing any
Fund of the
Corporation.
Limitation of
liability of
members.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Corporation may
hold property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Lasantha Alagiyawanna Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 45 of 2009
income or property among its members such institution or
institutions shall be determined by the members of the
Corporation at or immediately before, the time of dissolution
of the Corporation.
12. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper accounts to be kept of all moneys received and
expended by the Corporation.
(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by a qualified auditor
or auditors appointed by the Board of Directors.
(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—
(i) an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued by
the Council of such Institute; or
(ii) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as an Accountant, issued by the Council of such
Institute.
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of the
Chairman and the Secretary of the Corporation, who shall
sign their names to the instrument in token of their presence
and such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Audit and
accounts of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Lasantha Alagiyawanna Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 45 of 2009
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or any body politic or
corporate.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil  texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Lasantha Alagiyawanna Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 45 of 2009
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.