

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.12.2010
2405
2405
wxl 1"685 - 2010 foieïn¾ ui 17 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'12'17
No. 1,685 – FRIDAY , DECEMBER 17, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2408
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2408
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 24th December, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 10th
December, 2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.12.2010
2406
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.12.2010
2407
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.12.2010
2408
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars – Marriages, Births and Deaths
GAMPAHA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 18th of January, 2 011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
25th of November, 2010.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary’s Division applications are called applications should be sent
Gampaha Negombo Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) The District Secretary/The Additional
For Negombo Town of Aluthkuru Registrar General, District
Koralaya North Division Secretariat, Gampaha
12–565
Posts – Vacant
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATIONS  FOR  THE
OFFICERS  IN SRI  LANKA  ANIMAL PRODUCTION
AND HEALTH SERVICE – 2009(2010)
AMENDMENTS to the praragraphs 01, 10 and 14 of the
Advertistment published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka  No. 1,680 dated as 12.11.2010.
01. It is hereby notified that the Efficiency Bar Examination for
Officers in the above mentioned service will be held in Peradeniya
on February, 2010. Applications are being called from the officers
who were in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service as
at 30.11.2010.
10. Applications should be forwarded through the Head of
Department/Institute by Registered Post to reach the Director
General to the address given below on or before 31.12.2010. The
applications received after the closing date will be rejected :–
Director General of Animal Production and Health,
Department of Animal Product and Health,
Getambe, Peradeniya.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.12.2010
2409
14. Fees will be levied from the candidates who sit for the
examination on the following basis :
(a) No fees will be levied from candidates who sit for this
examination for the first time.
(b) For each subsequent sittings :
For whole examination Rs. 400 0
Single subject Rs. 200 0
Candidates who have already sat for this examination are required
to pay the relevant fees as indicated above. The above examination
fees should be paid to any Post Office/District or Divisional
Secretariat situated in the island to be credited to the Revenue Head
No. 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations and
the receipt of it should be affiixed to the edge of the relevant cage in
the application. Further it may be useful to keep a photostat copy
of it.
A. H. Gamage,
Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock and Rural
Community Development.
Ministry of Livestock and
Rural Community Development,
No. 45, St. Michel Road,
Colombo 3.
November, 2010.
12-465
––––––––––––––
 
SRI  LANKA  CUSTOMS  DEPARTMENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the
Posts of Customs Guard, Grade III of
Sri Lanka Customs Department – 2010
THE Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to Posts of
Customs Guard, Garde III of the Sri Lanka Customs Department
will be held only in Colombo by the Commissioner General of
Examinations in March, 2011. The date of the examination will be
notified in due course through the newspapers. The Sri Lanka
Customs Department reserves the right of postponing or cancelling
this examination.
Applications are invited for these posts from both sexes
possessing the qualifications given below :
02. Eligibility :
(i) Every candidate must furnish satisfactory proof to the
fact that he/she :
(a)  is a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(b)  is of excellent moral character,
(c) is not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years
of age on the date of closing of applications.
(ii) Physical Requirements.– In the case of males, their height
should not be less than 5 feet 5 inches and chest not less
than 33 inches (when expanded).
In the case of females their height should not be less than
5 feet 3 inches.
(iii) Educational qualifications.– The candidates must possess
the following educational qualifications :
(a) Pass six main subjects in one sitting at the General
Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) including
Credit passes in Sinhala Language or Tamil Language,
Mathematics and English Language.
03. Conditions of Service .– When called for to examine the
eligibility to recruit as Customs Guard, Garde III the candidates
should undergo training as  a beginner in the next six months at a
place determined by the Director General of Customs. An allowance
is paid during the training period (but no salary is paid). The
candidates will be examined in the use of firearms and fighting
methods of self defence at the end of the training. Those who reach
the required level of training will be recruited to a permanent post
in the Customs Department. The services of the failures will be
terminated.
(i) Salary.– The consolidated monthly salary scale attached
to the post is as follows :–
Rs. 12,210 - 130 x 10 - 145 x 10 - 160 x 10 - 170 x 12 -
Rs. 18,600. (Public Administration Circular No.
6/2006(IV) -P-L-2-2006-A).
(ii) The post is permanent and pensionable and should
contribute to the Widows’ and Orphans’/Widowers’ and
Orphans’ Pension Scheme.
(iii) Successful candidates will be appointed subject to a
probationary period of three years with effect from the
date of appointment.
(iv) The appointees must undergo a medical examination held
by a Government Medical Officer to test whether they
are physically fit to serve in any part of the Island.
(v) The appointees are bound to serve day and night on any
part of the Island.
(vi) The atten tion is invited to the General Conditions
applicable to the posts in Public Service which have
been published at the beginning of Part I Section (IIA) of
the Government Gazette Notification.
04. Scheme of Examination .– The examination for recruitment
consists the following question papers (two) :–
Marks
(01) Aptitude T est (01 hour) 100
(02) Mathematics (01 1/2 hours)
100
Total 200

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.12.2010
2410
Aptitude Paper.– This paper will consist of questions to test the
language skills and the ability in logical reasoning.
Mathematics Paper. – This paper will consist of questions to
test the mathematical skills.
Note.– (i) This examination will be conducted in all the three
media Sinhala, Tamil and English. Candidates
should sit this examination in the same language
medium in which they passed the qualifying
examination referred to in paragraph 02(iii) of this
notification ( i. e . Sinhala or Tamil or English).
However, a candidate who has passed the
qualifying examination sitting it in Tamil or English
medium or a candidate who was educated in Tamil
or English medium may answer in Sinhala medium
at the Examination if he/she desires. It is not
permitted to change the applied language medium
subsequently.
(ii) Marks will be deducted for bad handwriting and
wrong spelling. Candidates whose handwriting is
illegible are liable to be disqualified.
(iii) Admission cards of the examination will be sent
to the eligible candidates by the Commissioner
General of Examinations. But the receipt of an
admission card must not be treated as a fulfillment
of qualifications to sit the examination. The
candidates are bound by rules and regulations of
the Commissioner General of Examinations and if
the candidates breach such rules and regulations
they would have to face the punishment imposed
by him.
(iv) Evaluation.– Marks of 50% or above for each
question paper will be totaled and such candidates
will be called for the structured interview on the
descending order of totals according to the
prevailing number of vacancies. Maximum of 10
marks will be awarded for the sports talents at
the structured interview. And then will be referred
to a general interview in which no marks will be
awarded and will examine only the fulfillment of
requirements necessary for the post.
Marks awarding procedure at the structured
interview :
Marks for sports at the zonal level  : 3 marks for
the First place, 2 marks for the Second place and
1 mark for the Third place.
Marks for sports at the district level : 4 marks for
the First place, 3 marks for the Second place and
2 marks for the Third place.
Marks for sports at the national level  : 5 marks
for the First place, 4 marks for the Second place
and 3 marks for the Third place.
05. Basis of selection .– Candidates who are successful at the
written examination and the interview will be selected for conferment
of appointments as beginners. 10% of the approved cadre will be
reserved for female candidates.
Note.– The nature of the work in Customs Department is
such that even the female staff has to work the night
duties.
06. It is compulsory for every candidate that, he/she should
have fulfilled all the requirements prior to the date of closing
applications for the examination.
07. Method of Application :
(i) A specimen form of the application has been given at
the end of this notification. Candidates should prepare
their application forms themselves in the medium on
which they intend to sit the examination conforming to
the specimen form referred to above and fill them in
their own handwriting. Every cage of the application
must be filled by the candidates as instructed and if
there are cages not applicable, the words “not
applicable” should be entered in such cages. It must be
noted strictly that leaving blank cages in the application
will cause the applications liable to be rejected. (Heading
Numbers 01 to 06 of the specimen form should be on
the First page, 07 to 12 in the Second page and the rest
in the third page of the application that needs to be
prepared in A4 size papers.). The title of the examination
should be in English as well in Sinhala and Tamil
applications.
(ii) Applications must be sent under registered post on or
before 07th January, 2011 to Commissioner General of
Examinations. Any applications received after the due
date will be rejected. The name of the examination should
be written clearly on the top left-hand corner of the
envelope in which the application is enclosed.
(iii) Examination fee of Rs. 400 may be paid at any District/
Divisional Secretariat office to the credit of Revenue
Head Number 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General
of Examinations. The receipt must be attached to the
application and it is advised to retain a photocopy of
the receipt with the candidate. This fee will not be
refunded under any circumstances.
(iv) Candidates who are already employed in Government
Departments/Boards/Corporations must forward their
applications through the Heads of their Departments
or Institutions in which they are serving at present.
Candidates are requested to forward their applications
to Heads of their Departments or Institutions well in
time with a request that they be transmitted to the
Commissioner General of Examinations so as to reach
him on or before 07.01.2011.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.12.2010
2411
The applications should not be sent addressed
personally to the Director General of Customs or any
other officer of the Department. Applications received
after the due date, even if they are forwarded by the
departments will be rejected.
If the attestation of the signature of an applicant who is
in Government Service does not bear the signature and
the official seal of the Head of Department/Head of the
Institution, such applications will be rejected.
(v) Attestation.– The signature of an applicant who is in
Government Service should be attested by his/her Head
of Department or by an officer authorized to do so on
his behalf.
The signature of other applicants should be attested by
a person authorized to do so, i. e.–  a Justice of the
Peace, a Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, a
Notary Public, a Principal of a Government or a Director
Managed School, a Commissioned Officer of the Navy,
Air Force or Army, a permanent Government Officer
drawing an annual salary of Rs. 240,360 or over, a Chief
Incumbent or a Head of a Buddhist temple, any other
religion in charge of a place of worship or holding a
position of importance.
08. Admission to the Examination.– the Commissioner General
of Examinations will send admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been accepted. Candidates presenting themselves
for the examination must produce their admission cards with duly
attested signature to the Supervisor of the Examination Hall. A
candidate who fails to produce such a card will be refused admission
to the examination.
A candidate must sit the examination at the examination hall
assigned to him/her a Candidate presenting himself/herself at an
examination hall other than the one assigned to him/her will not be
allowed to sit the examination. Every candidate presenting himself/
herself for the examination must hand over his/her admission card
to the Supervisor on the day of the examination itself.
The rules for candidates are given separately in Part I : Section
(IIA) of this Gazette Notification. Candidates will be bound to
observe these rules.
The Department of Examinations notifies in the newspapers
the issuance of admission cards immediately after their issuance. If
a candidate does not receive his/her admission card within two or
three days after the newspaper notice, he/she should so inform
Department of Examinations as mentioned in the newspaper notice.
You may inform the Department of Examinations after retaining
- a certified photocopy of the application, a certified photocopy of
paid receipt, registered post receipt, letter of request with the fax
number to dispatch the admission card if in an area outside Colombo.
09. Identity Cards.– Candidates will be required to prove their
identity. Any of the following documents will be accepted for this
purpose :
(a) An Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid passport issued not more than five years before
the date of examination.
The candidature of a candidate who fails to produce a document
referred to above is liable to be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
10. Documents of Eligibility :
(i) No documents other than the receipt of examination
fee should be forwarded with the application. But the
necessary particulars should be provided in the form,
as prescribed. An application which is not completed
conforming to these requirements will be judged on its
own merits and may be rejected.
(ii) Candidates, who have qualified to be called for the
interview, should prove their eligibility by producing
documentary proof.
(iii) The originals of the following documents will be
required.
(iii) ( a) A certificate of moral character signed by a
responsible person.
Note.– The certificate of character may be obtained
from a Justice of the Peace, Attorney-at-Law,
Divisional Secretary of the area of residence, or a
permanent Government Officer in receipt of an
annual consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360 or over
or some person whose name is known and to
whom reference can be readily made. The
Designation, name and address of the person who
issues the certificate must be clearly indicated on
the certificate.
Candidates holding permanent posts in
Government Service will not be required to furnish
certificates of moral character.
(iii) ( b) A certified copy of the entry of the registration of
the birth of candidates or a Special Certificate of age
issued by the Registrar General (in the case of
candidates whose birth has been not registered).
Note.–(i) The special certificate of birth issued for school or
educational purposes, or a certified extract from
the birth registration entry will not be accepted.
(ii) Affidavits or Baptismal Certificates will not be
accepted as substitutes for birth certificates.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.12.2010
2412
If the name/names appearing in the Birth Certificate
differs/differ from the name/names which the
candidate generally uses and under which the
candidate sits the examination, action should be
taken immediately in terms of section 27 or 28 as
the case may be, of the Births and Deaths
Registration Act, (Chapter 110) to get the name in
the entry of the registration of birth amended.
(iii) Certificate of Registration as  a citizen of Sri Lanka
or original official letter of acceptance of claim to
citizenship by descent (applicable).
(iv) Original certificate of educational qualifications or
where the certificate has not been issued, other
official documents.
(v) Documentary proof of achievements of sports at
Zonal/District/National Levels.
(vi) Candidates are warned to have all the necessary
documents in readiness at the time of forwarding
the application. Any candidate who fails to produce
the necessary documents or who delays in producing
them when called for will be made disqualified for
appointment as  a beginner to this post.
11. Penalty for Furnishing false particulars. – If a candidate is
found to be ineligible according to the regualtions for this
examination, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any
stage prior to, during or after the examination.
If any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is found to be
false to best of his/her knowledge or if he/she has willfully
suppressed any material fact, or if it is proved, at any time during
the period of his/her service that he/she was ineligible to sit the
examination, he/she will be liable to immediate dismissal from the
service. The candidature of those who do not strictly conform to
the requirements laid down in this notification will be cancelled.
12. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be
dealt with at the discretion of the Director General of Customs.
This application should be forwarded under registered post to –
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations,
Organizing and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
Director,
General of Customs.
Sri Lanka Customs Department,
Bristol Street,
Colombo 01.
SRI LANKA CUSTOMS DEPARTMENT
O
PEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE
POSTS OF CUSTOMS GUARD, GRADE III OF SRI LANKA CUSTOMS
DEPARTMENT - 2010
(for office use only)
Medium in which you sit this examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Write the relevant number inside the box).
01. Name of the Applicant :
1.1 Name with initials at the end (English capital letters) :
–––––––––––.
Ex.– SILV A, B. A.
1.2 Name with initials (Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
1.3 Names denoted by initials (English capital letters)
 :–––––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
02. Permanent residential address : (English capital letters) :––––.
Address to which the Admission Card should be sent :––––––.
03. Particulars of the National Identity Card :
3.1 Number of the Identity Card :
3.1 Date of issue :
04. Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
05. State whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka :
By descent - 1 By registration - 2
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
06. Ethnicity :
Sinhalese - 1 Ceylon Tamil - 2
Indian Tamil - 3 Muslim - 4
Burgher - 5 Other - 6
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
07. ( a) Date of Birth :
Y ear Month Date
(b) Age on the closing date of application  :
Years Months Days

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.12.2010
2413
08. Physical requirements :
(i) Height :  Feet :––––––––––. inches :––––––––––.
(ii) Chest (when expanded) : inches :–––––––––.
(Only for male candidates)
09. Educational Qualifications :
General certificate of education (Ordinary Level) in one sitting :
Year of examination :––––––––––.
Index number :––––––––––.
Subject No. Subject Performance
10. Have you ever been convicted of any offence in the Court of
Law ? (Yes/No)
If yes, give details :
11. Examination fee (receipt to be attached) :
District/Divisional Secretariat Date :
Office :
Receipt number :
(These particulars should be given compulsorily).
12. Applicant's declaration/certification :
I do hereby certify that the particulars given by me in the
application are true and correct. I am aware that if any
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect,
I am liable to disqualification if detected before selection or
discontinuance after selection. Furthermore, I would abide by
rules and regulations of the Commissioner General of
Examinations regarding the conducting of the examination.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
13. Attestation of applicant's signature (delete whichever
inapplicable) :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................... who is
submitting this application is personally known to me/is an
employee of this Department/Board/Corporation, he/she has
paid the due examination fee and has attached the paid receipt
and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on this
.......... day of ........... 2010.
In the event of his/her selection for the appointment of Customs
Guard, Grade III he/she can be released from this Department/
Board/Corporation.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Attester.
Full name of attester :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
Note.– The attestation should be made by a person referred to in
paragraph 7(v) of the Gazette Notification.
12–504
–––––––––––––
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  PRESCRIBED
FOR OFFICERS  IN  SEGMENT  "B"  AND  SEGMENT
“A”  OF  CLASS  II  OF  THE SRI  LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL  SERVICE - 2010/2011
IT is hereby notified that in accordance with the approved service
minute of Sri Lanka Technological Service, the above mentioned
examinations will be held by the Commissioner General of
Examinations, in Colombo in March, 2011.
02. (i) These examinations will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and candidates will be bound by the rules
and regulations prescribed by him in respect of the examinations.
(ii) The candidates will be subjected to a punishment imposed
by the Commissioner General of Examinations, if such rules are
violated by them. Rules prescribed for candidates are printed
separately at the beginning of this Gazette Notification.
03. The specimen application for admission to this examination
is published at the end of this notification. Candidates are required
to prepare their applications in accordance with the specimen form
and officers in the public service should forward their applications
through the respective head of department and officers in the
provincial public service should forward their applications through
the secretary of PSC in the provincial Council where they serve, by
registered post to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organizations and Foreign Examination Branch, Department of
Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or before 14th January,
2011. The top left corner of the envelope containing the application
should bear clearly the title of the examination. Applications
received after the closing date of application will be rejected.
04. Identity cards .– Candidates should prove their identity at
the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.12.2010
2414
subject they offer. For this purpose any of the following documents
will be accepted :–
(a) an identity card issued by the Department of Registration
of Persons ;
(b) a valid passport.
The candidature of any applicant who is unable to furnish any
of the above documents is liable to cancellation on the discretion of
Commissioner General of Examinations.
05. Application :
(i) Applications should be prepared in a paper A4 in size
No. 01 to 02 should appear on the first page. Whilst the
rest should appear on other pages. Applications could be
typed but they should be completed correctly and legibly
by the candidate in his/her own hand writing and in the
language medium in which the candidate sits this
examination.
(ii) When the application form is prepared, the title of the
examination appearing in the specimen should be indicated
in English Language as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil
application forms. Applications which are incomplete
and not prepared in accordance with the specimen form
will be rejected without any notice. It is the responsibility
of the candidate to make sure that the application form
perfected by him/her self complies with the specimen
given in the examination notice and it would be advisable
to keep a photocopy of the completed application form.
(iii) The Candidates appearing for the examination for the
first time need not pay examination fees. However, for
subsequent sittings, a fee of Rs. 90 should be paid for the
whole examination and if only one subject is offered, a
fee of Rs. 50 should be paid. The fee can be paid to any
post office in the island to be credited to revenue head
20-03-20-13 of the Commissioner General of Examination
and the receipt obtained thus should be affixed firmly in
the relevant cage. It would be advisable to keep a
photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. Under no
circumstance, will the fee be refunded not transferred in
respect of other examinations.
(iv) Candidates are not allowed to change the language medium
selected by them in their applications. If applications are
received in Sinhala, Tamil and Engish languages, this
examination will be held in those three languages. However,
candidates should answer the question papers in one and
the same language selected by them.
(v) An officer is not allowed to sit for both Efficiency Bar
Examination at one and the same occasion.
(vi) However, officer in class II segment ‘B’ who has
completed a service period of five years and passed the
1st Efficiency Bar Examination can sit for the Efficiency
Bar Examination in Class II Segment ‘A’.
06. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards along with a copy of the time table to all candidates
whose applications have been received. A candidate sitting himself
for the examination must produce his admission card with bear the
candidate's signature which duly attested to the supervisor of the
examination center. A candidate who fails to produce his admission
card will not be permitted to sit the examination.
A notification will be published in newspapers as soon as the
admission cards are issued to the candidates. If the admission card
isnot received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps
should be taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the
manner specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable to
keep the following in hand at the time of calling the Department of
Examinations. i. e. certified photocopies of the application form
and the receipt kept at your possession, receipt of registration and
in case of applciants outside Colombo letter of request furnishing a
fax number to which the admission card should be sent.
07. The documents furnished later by the candidates who have
failed to satisfy the requirements indicated in para (06) above will
not be considered
08. Officers may, if they so which, present themselves for
different  subjects separately at different examinations. However,
in order to secure a pass at least 40% of the marks should be
obtained in respect of each question paper.
09. Issue of the results of the examination.– In accordance with
the particulars indicated in para 3 above, the results of the candidates
belonging to provincial public service will be issued  to the Secretary
of the respective Provincial Public Service Commission and the
results of the candidates belonging to public service will be issued
to the Secretary of the respective ministry.
10. Scheme of Examinations :
(i) The Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Class II
Segment “B” will consist of 02 question papers.
1. Office Administration and Establishments Code (Two
hours)
(100 marks) (Subject No. 01)
2. Financial Regulations (Two Hours)
(100 marks) (Subject No. 02)
Syllabus for the first question paper :
Office Administration and Establishments Code (Subject No. 01)
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of Establishments
Code.
Chapter II - Recruitment Procedure and Appointment
Chapter III - Transfers
Chapter IV - Grant of Monthly Pay, Temporary Status,
Permanent status and Pensionability
Chapter V - Release, Reversion, and Termination of
Employment

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.12.2010
2415
Chapter VIII - Overtime, Holidays, Holiday Pay and
Allowances
Chapter XII - Leave
Chapter XIII - Railway Warrants
Chapter XIV - Travel on duty within the Island
Chapter XIX - Government Quarters
Chapter XLVII - General Conduct and discipline
Syllabus for the second question paper :
Financial Regulations (Subject No. 02)
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of Financial
Regulations :
(1) Chapter I
Estimates of Expenditure and Revenue
The Consolidated Fund, Annual Estimates, Variations
of Estimates
(FR. 1 to 68)
(2) Chapter III
Financial Management and Accountability
Chief Accounting Officers, Accounting Officers, Revenue
Officers, Authorization, Approval, Certification,
Delegation of Authority (FR. 124 to 147)
(2) The Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Class II
Segment ‘A’ will consist of 02 question papers.
3. Office Administration and Establishment Code (Two
Hours)
(100 marks) (Subject No. 03)
4. Financial Regulation (Two Hours)
(100 marks) (Subject No. 04)
Syllabus for the first question paper :
Office Administration and Establishments Code (Subject No. 03)
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of
Establishments Code.
Chapter XV - T ravel abroad for study, training or on duty
Chapter XVI - Holiday Travel
Chapter XXIII - Special concessions and conditions
regarding officers suffering from certain
types of illnesses
Chapter XXIV - Salary Loans and Advances
Chapter XXV - Concessions to members of Trade Unions
Chapter XXVII - Channels of Communication
Chapter XXVIII - Administrative procedures
Chapter XXX - Right of Government over its officers
Chapter XXXIII - Legal advice and legal actions.
Chapter XLVII - General conduct and discipline
Chapter XLVIII - Rules of disciplinary procedure
Circulars issued on performance appraisal.
Syllabus for the second question paper :
Financial Regulations (Subject No. 04)
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of Financial
Regulations.
(1) Chapter VI
Custody of Public Money, etc., Imprests and Bank
Accounts.
Security of Public Money, Boards of Survey, Bank
Drafts, Bank Accounts (FR. 315 to 396).
(2) Chapter XIII
Supplies, Works and Services.
Supplies/Purchasing, Stock Verification, Procurement
Procedures, Contracts, Tender Procedure. (FR. 708 to
775)
11. The decision of the Secretary, Ministry of Pubic
Administration and Home Affairs will be the final in respect of any
matter not provided for in this notification.
12. Issue of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily
mean that his/her eligibility to sit for the examination has been
accepted.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil
and English texts of this gazette notification, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
2010.
Specimen Form of Application
(for Office use only)
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION PRESCRIBED FOR
OFFICERS IN SEGMENT “B” AND SEGMENT “A” OF
CLASS II OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE
- YEAR 2010/2011
(Applications for “B” and “A” Segments cannot be Submitted at
one and the same time)
Medium in which you Examination which you
sit for the examination apply (II 'B' -0/ II 'A'- I)
(Sinhala - 2/Tamil - 3/English - 4)(Indicate the relevant number in
(Indicate the relevant number the cage)
in the cage)
01. (a) Name with initials (Indicate the initials at the end of the
name) :––––––––––.
(in English block capital letters) (eg. SILV A  A. B.)

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.12.2010
2416
(b) Name in full :————.
(in English block capital letters)
(c) Name with initials:————.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
(d) Official Address : (Admissions will be posted to this
address) :
(in English) :–––––––––.
(in Sinhala) :–––––––––.
(e) Sex :––––––.
(Male - 0/Female - 1)
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(f) Subject/Subjects offered :
Subject offered for the Class II Segment B/Class II Segment A
Efficiency Bar Examination (delete inapplicable words)
Subject Subject No.
...............................
...............................
02. (i) National Identity Card Number :
(i) Whether you belong to the provincial public
service or public service (indicate the relevant
number in the cage)
(Public Service - 1/Western - 2/Southern - 3/Central - 4/
North Western - 5/Sabaragmuwa - 6/Uva - 7/North Central - 8/
North - 9/ East - 10)
03. (i) Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(ii) Age as at 31.12.2010 :
Years : Months : Days :
04. (i) Designation:————.
(ii) Class and Grade of Sri Lanka Technological Service :––––.
(should be included as II A/IIB)
(iii) Service period in the above class and grade as at 31.12.2010
:––––––––.
05. Department which you belong to :————.
affix the receipt here (It would be advisable to keep
a copy of the receipt)
I declare that the particulars furnished above are accurate and I
am entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium
mentioned above. Further, I agree to abide by the rules imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examination on conducting the
examination.
————,
Signature of the candidate.
Date:————.
Note.- Candidate should place his/her signature in the presence
of the Head of Department or an officer duly authorized to
sign on his behalf.
Attestation of candidate's signature
I hereby certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss .................. is presently
employed in my office and is well known to me and he/she placed
his/her signature in my presence on ................ 2010.
————,
Signature of the attestor.
Certification of the Head of the Department
I hereby certify that the particulars given in paragraphs 1-6
above are correct and this candidate is eligible to sit for the
examination and also eligible to sit for the examination in the language
medium mentioned above.
————,
Signature and designation of Head of Department.
Date:————.
12-572
–––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  GERMAN  RAILWAY  TECHNICAL
TRAINING  CENTER – RATMALANA
Admission of Apprentices – 2010
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka with minimum
qualifications in accordance with the clause 02 stated hereunder for
admission of apprentices to the Ratmalana Sri Lanka - German
Railway Technical Training Center for the year 2010.
02. Minimum qualifications :
(a) Age.– Between 16-25 years as at 31.05.2010 ;
(b) Educational qualifications.– G . C. E. (O/L) examination
in 6 subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language,
Mathematics and Science at not more than two (02)
sittings. Five (05) subjects at the 1st sitting before
31.12.2009.
03. Training Courses.– Apprentices selected will be permitted to
undergo training in the following vocations for periods relevant to
those vocations. All the courses will be conducted in Sinhala medium
only.
(i) Diesel Engine M echanic 2 1/2 years
(ii) Welder 03 years
(iii) Electrician (Power sets) 03 1/2 years
(iv) Mechanics (General) 03 1/2 years

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.12.2010
2417
04. Applications.– In accordance with the specimen form provided,
the applicants are to prepare their own applications on 297m. m. x
210 m. m. (A4 size) white paper and indicate full information
correctively. Applications which do not furnish necessary information
will be rejected.
05. Selection to the courses :
(i) Whilst the selection is made on the performance at the
written and practical tests, those with minimum
qualifications and those who had paid examination fees in
accordance with clause 7 will be called up for the written
examination.
(ii) The question paper will comprise of Mathematics, Basic
mechanical knowledge and General knowledge. Those who
obtain highest marks will be called up for the practical/
interview.
(iii) Those who obtain highest marks for written and practical
tests will selected for the respective study courses.
06. Medium of examination.– Eexamination will be conducted in
Sinhala, Tamil and English medium.
07. For this examnation a non-refundable examination fee of
Rs. 500 will be levied. A money order for this amount drawn in
favour of General Manager, Railways, payable at Maradana Post
Office, obtained from any post office should be attached to the
application. Applications that do not accompany money orders will
be rejected. It should be noted that due to the non-appearance at the
examination or any other reason examination fees will not be refunded.
08. Examination Centres.– A written examination at a centre in
Colombo only will be held for those applicants who fulfil all the
conditions stipulated.
09. Execution of Agreement .– All the applicants selected for
training at the institute should enter into an agreement with the
National Apprentices and Industrial Training Authority to the effect
that the training course would be successfully completed during the
period relevant to the vocation.
10. During the period of training apprentices would be paid a
monthly allowance by the National Apprentice and Industrial
Authority.
11. The Department is not bound to provide with employment
to the trainees.
12. Applications should prepared in accordance withthe following
specimen application form and sent to ; Director, Sri Lanka German
Railway Technical Training Centre, Kaldemulla Road, Ratmalana,
under registered cover having written to "SLJRT II/2010" on the top
left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
13. The last day applications accepted .– Application will be
accepted till 17.01.2011. Late applications will be rejected.
General Manager of Railways.
Office of the General Manager of Railways,
Sri Lanka Railway Service,
Colombo 10.
ADMISSION OF APPRENTICES TO RATMALANA SRI
LANKA GERMAN RAILWAY TECHNICAL TRAINING
CENTRE - YEAR 2010
For office use only
01. Full name (with surname)
In Sinhala :––––––––.
In English :––––––––.
02. Address (Sinhala) :––––––––.
              (English) :––––––––.
03. District :––––––––.
04. Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
05. Male/Female :––––––––.
06. Educational Qualifications :
G . C. E. (O/L)
First year :––––––––. Examination No. :––––––––.
No. Subjects Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
Second year :––––––––.         Examination No. :––––––––.
No. Subjects Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.12.2010
2418
07. Medium the applicant sits the examination  :––––––––.
08. In accordance with the notice calling for applications indicate
two vocations that you like in order of preference :
1. ........................... 2. ...........................
09. I have attached hereto a money order bearing No. ............. having
paid a sum of Rs. 500 to ................. Post Office. The receipt
bearing No. ................. having paid a sum of Rs. 500 to ...........
Railway Station.
Attach the money order so that it won't come off
10. I certify that the information furnished by me above are true and
correct. I am aware that if any information furnished by me here
were found to be untrue before I am selected I would be
disqualified and if found after selection, I would be removed
from training.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––.
12–601/2
–––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  LIVESTOCK  AND  RURAL
COMMUNITY  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Animal Production and Health
RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF RESEARCH
ASSISTANT IN CLASS II B OF THE SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE - 2010
THE paragraph of 9:1 pertaining to the recruitment of Research
Assistants Grade II'B' of Sri Lanka Technological Service the notified
in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
No. 1,682 dated as 26.11.2010 is hereby amended as follows :
09. Method of Application :
(i) The application should be related to the specimen
application form published in Gazzete notification
No. 1,682 on 26.11.2010. Application should be prepared
on paper 8 1/2" x 12"(A4) using both sides of it.
The application should be sent under registered cover to reach
the Director General, Department of Animal Production and Health,
P. O. Box 13, Getambe, Peradeniya on or before 21.12.2010. The
words 'Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to the Post of
Research Assistant' should be written on the top left hand corner of
the envelope clearly. The applications received after the closing date
will be rejected.
Dr. A. D. N. C
HANDRASIRI,
Director General (C. D.),
Department of Animal Production and Health.
Department of Animal Production and Health,
Peradeniya.
29th November, 2010.
12–598
––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  RAILWAYS  DEPARTMENT
Recruitment of Railway Sub-station Masters on
Contract Basis
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited for recruitment of Sub-station
Masters on contract basis to Sri Lanka Railways Department for the
following vacant stations :–
01. Pannipitiya 11. Avukana
02. Anuradhapura New Town 12. Sevanapitiya
03. Horiwila 13. Kudahakapola
04. Thudella 14. Heendeniya Pattigoda
05. Horape 15. Thiladiya
06. Enderamulla 16. Laksha Uyana
07. Baththuluoya 17. Gallella
08. Navinna 18. Ranmukgama
09. Udahamulla 19. Pengiriwatte
10. Malapalla 20. Thelwatte
01. Sub-Station Master's Duty Details.– The Agents employed in
charge of the Railway ticket issuing stations in accordance with the
trains stopped at such stations, are to issue Railway Tickets 24
hours a day,  receive parcels, hand over the parcels received to the
rightful owners, remit monies collected, to the Chief Accountant
Railways, upkeep the sub station and carry out other duties as and
when directed by the General Manager Railways, will be the normal
duties of these Agents.
02. Allowances.– A post that does not belong to permanent cadre
of employees. The selected will be paid a commission depending on
the income of stations and approved allowances only. Whilst the
maximum allowances paid with the minimum commission of Rs. 310
will be not be less Rs. 5,329.
03. Whilst only males could send in their applications, an applicant
could apply for one sub-station only. At instances where applications
are made for more than one station, the first sub-station indicated in
the application will be considered as the sub-station for which the
application has been made.
04. Age Limit. – As at the last date of the acceptance of the
applications, the age should not be less than 18 years or more than
45 years.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.12.2010
2419
05. Educational Qualifications. – G . C. E. (Ordinary Level)
Examination in six subjects with 4 Credit passes including Sinhala/
Tamil/English and Mathematics at one sitting.
06. Other qualifications :
(i) The applicant should be a permanent resident for a period
of 05 years of a place within a distance of 11 Km (Radius)
from the substation. Before issuing the letter of assignment,
the place of permanent residence should be confirmed by
documents ("Grama Niladhari" certificate, Divisional
Secretary's certificate, extract from the V oters' Register,
etc.). Whilst the address indicated in the application need
to be the permanent address. It is from this address, the
direct distance to the station to be calculated.
(ii) Applicants should be Sri Lankan Citizens.
(iii) Those at present serving as sub railway station masters or
those who had served in such a capacity are not eligible to
apply.
(iv) Selection will be made after proven to be of sound health
condition and good eye sight. Educational qualifications
and good eye sight are compulsory.
07. Method of selection. – Selection will be made on the merit
performance at a written competitive examination conducted by the
General Manager, Railways. Accordingly all the applicants need to
answer two question papers set under the following subjects at this
competitive examination. Minimum marks of 40% on each subject
should be obtained to be qualified at this examination.
(i) Language ability :
Duration - 01 hour, total marks 100
A question paper comprising of subject related questions
on correct command of the language and understanding.
(ii) Intelligence test :
Time - 01 hour, Total marks 100
A question paper of multiple choice question type set to
gauge logical, quick decisions through mathematical
problems, language sections, tables, matching records,
pictures and graphs including critical intelligence where
the answers are to be furnished in the question paper
itself.
Note :
(i) Out of those who are qualified at the examination, in
accordance with the indicated ticket issuing stations,
the applicant who obtained the highest marks will be
called up for a qualification examining interview in
order to appoint the applicant to the relevant ticket
issuing station.
(ii) No marks whatsoever will be given at the interview.
(iii) If the qualified had obtained equal marks, at such a
situation, an opportunity will be given to the applicant
who had worked as an approved substitute under a
Railway Ticket issuing Agent or a Sub-Railway Station
Master, in such an absence, the resident closest to the
substation will be selected.
08. Conditions for Employments in Service :
(a) The selected are to deposit a sum of money as decided
by the General Manager, Railways or a minimum sum of
Rs. 25,000 as a security deposit and are to Act in
accordance with the conditions of agreement entered into
with the General Manager, Railways. Violations of
conditions stipulated in this agreement will tantamount
to termination of service.
(b) As this appointment is on a contract basis, the relevant
contract needs to be re-newed annually. When not
renewed the contract will be revoked.
(c) The selected applicant needs to obtain a training of the
duties for a period of 14 days relevant to the station he
will be assigned to a Railway Station named by the
General Manager, Railways. No allowance will be paid
during the training period.
(d) The selected applicant could obtain the services of an
assistant with the approval of Department of Railways.
No payment will be made to the substitute by the
Department and the full responsibility of the station
will vest with the Railway Sub Station Master.
(e) During the period of training or during the period of
service as a Sub Railway Station Master or at any point
of time or at the interview, if the applicant was found to
have furnished incorrect and invalid information his
service will be discontinued immediately without prior
notification.
(f) The Department is not bound to offer permanent
employment in the Railway Department to the applicant
selected as the Sub Railway Station Master.
9. Service Conditions :
(i) If some condition or several are violated in the agreement
entered in to, the appointment will be immediately
discontinued ;
(ii) The applicant should agree to be subjected to, the
provisions and regulations enforced from time to time
by the General Manager, Railways.
10. Examination Fees.– All the applicants should attach a money
order to the value of Rs. 300 which is non refundable made to the
name of General Manager, Railways payable at Maradana Post Office.
Payment of examination fees by other methods would result in the
rejection of the application. Incomplete and informal applications
will be rejected without any notification. The applicants to the
examination should prove their identity at the examination.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.12.2010
2420
11. Submission of applications.– The applicant himself should
prepare the application on typing sheet size (A4). The applications
should be addressed to : The General Manager, Railways, P. O. Box
355, Colombo 10. Indicating "Application for the Sub Railway Station
Master's Examination – Railway Station Applied" on the top left
hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application. The application
should be sent under registered cover to reach us on or before
17.01.2011 (the specimen form of the application is as follows).
12. Certification of the application.– The signature of the applicant
in the application should be certified by Principal of a Government
school/Justice of the Peace/Commissioner for Oaths/Attorney-at-
Law/Commissioned Officer in the Army/An Officer in the Police
Service holding a gazetted position or a permanent Government
Officer in receipt of an annual salary of not less than Rs. 237,060.
A. G . M
AHANAMA,
Acting General Manager, Railways.
At the Office of the General Manager of Railways,
Colombo 10,
On the November, 2010.
THE APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF
SUB RAILWAY STATION MASTER ON
CONTRACT BASIS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF SRI LANKA
GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS
01. Sub Railway Station applied :
(i) Full name :––––––––––.
(ii) Name with initials (Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
(iii) Name with initials (English) :––––––––––.
02. Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(i) Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––.
(ii) English :––––––––––.
(iii) Telephone No. (residence) :––––––––––.
(Mobile) :––––––––––.
03. Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
04. National Identity Card No. :
05. District :
06. Divisional Secretairat Division :
Grama Niladhari's Division :
07. The distance from your permanent to the Sub Railway Station
you apply indicate in K. M. (Direct distance) :––––––––––.
08. Educational qualifications :
G . C. E. (O/L)
Year and Examination No. Subjects Grade
09. Other qualifications :––––––––––.
10. The medium you sit the examination (Sinhala/Tamil/English) :
11. Have you been found guilty by a Court of Law for an allegation,
If so indicate details :––––––––––.
12. Having paid a sum of Rs. 300 to ................ Post Office. I attach
hereto the original copy of the Money Order bearing No. ..........
(Payment of examination fees by any other means other than
what is mentioned will be a reason for rejection of the application)
13. Certificate of the applicant :
(a) I certify that the information furnished by me in this
application are true and correct.
(b) I am aware that in the event this declaration made by me
was found to be untrue or incorrect before I am appointed
I would be disqualified and if found after my appointment
I would be discontinued from service.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
14. Certification of the applicant signature :
I certify that Mr. ....................... holder of National Identity
Card bearing No. ................. submitting this application is
personally well known to me and placed his signature today,
before me.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the officer certifying.
Name of the officer certifying :––––––––––.
Position :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
(Please place seal of office)
12–601/1
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.