

<!-- page 1 -->

PALAKA SABHAWA OF BERUWALA
MALEWANA SRI GNANISSARA AYURVEDIC
MEDICAL COLLEGE (INCORPORATION)
ACT,  No.  15  OF  1999
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
[Certified on 15 th June, 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 18, 1999.
PRINTED  A T  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICA TIONS  BUREAU, COLOMBO 1
Price : Rs. 4.50 Postage : Rs. 3.50
(Internet Version)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Palaka Sabhawa of Beruwala Malewana
Sri Gnanissara Ayurvedic Medical College
(Incorporation) Act No. 15 of 1999
[Certified on 15 th June, 1999]
L.D.–O.80/95.
A N  ACT   TO   INCORPORATE  THE  PALAKA  SABHAWA  OF  BERUWALA
M ALEWANA  SRI GNANISSARA  AYURVEDIC  M EDICAL  COLLEGE
WHEREAS  a college called and known as the “ Beruwala
Malewana Sri Gnanissara Ayurvedic Medical College” has
heretofore been established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of
effectually carrying out and transacting all the objects and
matters connected with the said College according to the rules
agreed to by its members ;
AND WHEREAS the affairs and objects of the said College
have heretofore been managed and carried out by a Palaka
Sabawa;
AND WHEREAS the said Palaka Sabawa has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application ;
BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :
1. This Act may be cited as the Palaka Sabhawa of
Beruwala Malewana Sri Gnanissara Ayurvedic Medical College
(Incorporation) Act, No.15 of 1999.
2. From and after the date of  commencement of this Act,
the members of the Palaka Sabhawa for the time being of the
Beruwala Malewana Sri Gnanissara Ayurvedic Medical College
(hereinafter referred to as the “ College”) shall be a body
corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with
perpetual succession under the name and style of the “Palaka
Sabhawa of Beruwala Malewana Sri Gnanissara Ayurvedic
Medical College” and by that name may sue and be sued in all
courts, with full power and authority to have and use a common
seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be-
(a) to conduct, maintain and administer the College as a
national centre providing instructions to the
traditional Ayurvedic and allied systems of medicine;
General objects
of the
Corporation
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation of
the Palaka
Sabhawa of the
Beruwala
Malewana Sri
Gnanissara
Ayurvedic
Medical College.
H - 022545

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Palaka Sabhawa of Beruwala Malewana
Sri Gnanissara Ayurvedic Medical College
(Incorporation) Act No. 15 of 1999
Rules of the
Corporation.
(b) to establish an Ayurvedic Hospital for training of
students in the traditional Ayurvedic system of
medicine and to provide free treatment to patients;
(c) to make recommendations to the Ayurvedic Medical
Council for the purpose of determining those who
are competent in the traditional Ayurvedic system of
medicine;
(d) to construct, maintain and equip buildings that are
necessary for the College;
(e) to award the M.G.A.S. (Malewana Gnanissara
Ayurvedic Sasthri) certificate to those who
successfully complete a four year course at the
College after an examination conducted by a Board
of examiners appointed by the commissioner of
Ayurveda ;
(f)to promote, encourage and foster researches in
Ayurvedic system of Medicine;
(g) to award honorary certificates annually to persons
who are engaged in activities for the promotion and
development of traditional Ayurvedic system of
medicine in Sri Lanka.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
and furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including the power to  open, operate and  close
accounts, to borrow or raise money with or without security,
to receive or collect grants or donations, to invest its funds
and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
5.  (1) It shall  be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law,  for the election, and terms of office of
General powers of
the Corporation

<!-- page 4 -->

3Palaka Sabhawa of Beruwala Malewana
Sri Gnanissara Ayurvedic Medical College
(Incorporation) Act No. 15 of 1999
members, the management of the affairs of the Corporation
and the accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made
may at a like meeting and in like manner be altered, added to,
amended or rescinded.
(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.
6.  All debts and liabilities of the College existing on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall be
paid by the Corporation and all debts due to and subscriptions
and contributions payable to the College on that day shall be
paid to the Corporation for the purpose of this Act.
7. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,
lease or testamentary disposition, or otherwise for the purpose
of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being
of the Corporation with full power to sell, mortage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
8. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such number
of members as provided for in the rules, who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence, and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
9.  Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic, or of any body politic or corporate,
or of any other persons, except such as are mentioned in this
Act, and those claming by, from, or under, them.
10. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Debts due by and
payable to the
College.
Corporation may
hold property
movable or
immovable.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others
Sinhala test to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 5 -->

Annual subscription of  English Bills and Acts of  the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , No. 32,TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.