

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2011
313
313
wxl 1"695 - 2011 fmnrjdß ui 25 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'02'25
No. 1,695 – FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 315
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... ––
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 04th March, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 18th
February, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,694 of 18.02.2011 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2011
314
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2011
315
Posts – Vacant
RECRUITMENT   OF   STUDENTS  TO  BE  TRAINED FOR   POSTS  OF  OPHTHALMOLOGISTS,   DENTAL
TECHNOLOGISTS,  ENTOMOLOGICAL    ASSISTANTS AND   SCHOOL   DENTAL   THERAPISTS  IN  THE PARA-
MEDICAL   SERVICES   UNDER   THE   MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH - 2011
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible citizens of Sri Lanka to be trained for the under mentioned posts, according to the manner given
against each category:
Post of Opthalmologists from both, eligible male
and Dental Technologists and female citizens
Posts of Entomological Only from eligible male citizens
Assistants
Post of School Dental Only from eligible female citizens
Therapists to be recruited as Students.
01. Selection of eligible candidates for the courses to be trained for the Posts of Opthalmologists, Dental Technologists and Entomological
Assistants, School Dental Therapists is made based on a priority list prepared according to the “Z” score secured at the G. C. E.
(Advanced Level) Examination held from 2007 to 2009.
02. Selection will be made based on the district population ratio depending on the number of students to be recruited for train ing.
03. (i) Since this is a full-time course of training, students who attend other courses on the five days of the week and the fore -noon
on Saturday should not apply for this course.
(ii) If you had or have been registered with any University to follow a course on any date, you should get that registration
cancelled by the final date for closing the applications (Although you have not attended or you are not attending lectures, after
registration with a University you are treated as a student, and therefore such applicants also should get their registration
cancelled.)
(iii) If you have completed your degree in any university the effective date of that degree should be one earlier than that of the
closing date of applications.
N. B.:- You should note that any section of this Gazette notification does not mean that you are compulsorily selected and admitted
to a Training Course for posts of Opthalmologists, Dental Technologists, Entomological Assisstants or School Dental Therapists for
having cancelled your registration with any University as per 03 II and/or 03 III or have already completed a degree.
Also if you have not secured an adequate “Z” score value you will not qualify to follow these training courses irrespective of the fact
that you have got your registration with the University cancelled or you have completed your degree.
At the same time if you have not fulfilled the requirements in paras 03 I, 03 II and 03 III above you will not be qualified for this training
course irrespective of the fact that you have secured an adequate “Z” score value.
04. The period of training for all the relevant courses is 02 years.
05. Educational Qualifications –
Code T raining Course G. C. E. (O. L) qualifications G. C. E. (A. L.)
No. Qualifications
01. Ophthalmologists Should have passed the G. C. E. (O/L) Passed GCE (A/L) Examination
Examination in Six subjects, at not more than from 2007 to 2009 in 03 subjcts of
two sittings, with credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil Physics with a credit pass for Biology
Language, Mathematics, Science and English and one of the science stream subjects
Language (Out of these five subjects should have of Botany, Agriculture and Chemistry
been passed in one sitting) A Credit pass for (It is compulsory to have “Z” score
English Language is compulsory for the Post of value of the GCE (A./L) Examination.)
Opthalmalogist.
 

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2011
316
02. Dental Technologist Should have passed the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination Passed GCE (A/L) Examination from 2007
in six subjects, at not more than two sittings, to 2009 in 03 subjects with a credit pass
including a pass in English and credit passes for for Chemistry and Biological stream of
Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics, Science subjects inclusive of one out of Physices.
and another subject. Combined Maths and Agricultural science
(It is compulsory to include Z score value
of the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination)
03. Entomological Should have passed the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination passed GCE (A/L) Examination from 2007
Assistant in six subjects, including English Language at not to 2009 in 03 subjects with a credit pass
more than two sittings, with credit passes for for the Biology in Bialogical stream of
Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics, Science subjects with 02 of the following subjects
and another subject. of Physics, Botany, Agricultural Science
and Chemistry at one sitting. (It is
compulsory to include Z score value of
the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination.)
04. School Dental Should have passed the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination Passed G .C.E. (A/L) Examination from
Therapist in six subjects, at not more than two sittings, inclusive 2007 to 2009 in 03 subjects with a credit
of English Language and with credit passes for Sinhala/ pass for Biology in Science stream of
TamilLanguage, Mathematics, Science and subjects with 02 of the following subjects
another subject. of Botany, Physics, Agricultural Science
and Chemistry. (It is compulsory to
include the Z score value of the G .C.E.
(A/L) Examination.)
06. Other Qualifications :
(a) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years of age as at 25.03.2011.
(b) Should be prepared to serve in any part of the Island.
(c) Should be physically fit
(d) Both female and male candidates could apply for the posts of Opthalmologists and Dental Technologists
(e) Candidates for posts of Entomological Assistants is confined to males only.
(f) Should be of a height of over 04 feet 10 inches and be unmarried females in respect of candidates for the post of School Dental
Therapists.
(g) Three years residency in the district from which the candidate submits the application.
(h) The trainee candidates can apply for 03 courses and they should indicate their option in order in their applications. The
candidates who were selected for the first one will not be called for the others. However if they were called for an interview
more than once due to any reason, they will be selected based on their options. No change will be allowed in options under any
conditions. Once registered, they will not be allowed to access any other course and they should not even apply for the same.
07. Method of Application :
(a) If any candidate wishes to supply for more than one post- viz Opthalmologist, Dental Technologist, Entomological Assistant
and School Dental Therapists separate applications should be submitted. Applications should be prepared as per specimen
annexed herewith Applicants should send a Money order to the value of Rs. 200 payable at the Colombo General Post Office
drawn infavour of the “Director General of Health Services”, Ministry of Health, “Suwasiripaya”, No. 385, Ven. Baddegama
Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10” The Money Order should be annexed to the application and this money is non-
refundable, under any circumstances.
(b) The signature of the applicant should be attested by an officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Education Administrative
Service/Government Accountancy Service/Principal of a Government School/Justice of the Peace/an Attorney-at-Law or an
Officer in Government Service drawing a salary of not less than Rs. 240,360 per annum.
(c) Duly perfected applications should be sent under registered cover to reach the Director (Administration) 02, Ministry of
Health, “Suwasiripaya”, 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10, on or before 25.03.2011. The top
left hand corner of the envelope containing the applications should be marked “Recruitment of students to be trained for Posts
of Opthalmologists, Dental Technologists, Entomological Assistants, School Dental Therapists.”
Code T raining Course G. C. E. (O. L) qualifications G . C. E. (A. L.)
No. Qualifications

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2011
317
08. Applications will not be acknowleged.
09. Applications received after the due date will not be entertained.
10. Applicaions which do not conform to the requirements of the notice will be rejected.
11. Applicants, who have fulfilled the educational and other qualifications given above, will be called for interviews. Applicants should
submit the originals of the following documents at the interview. The candidature of those candidates who fail to submit the or iginals of
the relevant documents at the interview will be cancelled.
(a) Certificate of Birth.
(b) Originals of the educational qualifications and in the absence of the originals, the results issued to the external candidates, or
the original of the letter issued to the applicant by the Principal of the school from which the applicant sat for the
examination.
(c) Certificate issed by the Department of Examinations indicating the “Z” score marks level secured at the GCE (A/L)
Examination.
(d) The National Identity Card/Passport or Driving Licence.
(e) In respect of candidates applying for the post of School Dental Therapists, the relevant certificate to be submitted in proof
of unmarried status will be stated in the letter calling for the interview.
(f) Certified copies of the V oters List relevant to the years 2007, 2008 and 2009 to prove residency of 03 years within the
district.
If the name of the applicant is not mentioned in the V oters List, the names of his/her parents have to be in the V oters List such
candidates should, in addition to the certified copy of the V oters List, submit the Certificate of Residency with in the District
from the Grama Sevaka counter-signed by the Divisional Secretary.
12. Scheme of Training :
(a) Selected candidates will be admitted to the respective schools of training to follow the courses applied for Candidates should
follow the course in the English medium.
(b) The students admitted for training will be subjected to the rules and regulations in force with the schools of training and other
regulations that are enforced by the Department of Health from time to time.
(c) The training of those students who fail the examinations or whose work and conduct is proved unsatisfactory or those who
fail to comply with the conditions of examinations and leave in the School of training during the period of training is liable
to be stopped at any time without payment of any compensation.
(d) The Trainees will be paid a monthly allowance during the period of training In addition they are entitled to the cost of living
allowance as well.
(e) The trainess, when entering the Schools of Training should enter in to an agreement with the Director General of Health
Services to the effect that the said training programme will be successfully completed and that the training programme will
not be abandoned and if given an appointment after completion of the training shall serve the Department of Health Service
for a minimum of 10 years period. In the event of the trainee withdrawing from the training or abandoning the training or has
to be discontinued from the training as per para (03) above during the period of training, he/she shall refund the Department
the expenditure incurred for the payment of allowances and other expenses borne by the Government during the period of
his/her training. Otherwise action will be taken to recover such expenses incurred by the Department as stipulated in the
agreement.
13. Terms of Engagement -
The Government is not bound to grant permanent appointments at the end of the training. However, the trainees who succeed in
the final examination will be given appointments to the Class III of the relevant post, depending on the vacancies available in any
part of the Island based on their merit. (It is compulsory to serve at least 02 years at the station of first appointment from the date
of appointment.)
14. When filling the applications the educational and other qualifications should be entered with due care. Provided that the
certificates furnished were proved to be false or incorrect after recruitment for training or after appointments are given, action will
be taken to discontinue them from the training or to dismiss them from service and also to black-list their names and there-by
preventing them from re-entering the Government Service.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2011
318
15. The selected candidates will have to undergo a Medical Examination, to assure that they are physically and mentally fit to
serve in any part of Sri Lanka, and those who are proved unfit at the said Medical Examination will become disqualify to
continue with their training.
16. All the officers so recruited will be subjected to all the rules and regulations applicable to the public officers, the prov isions
of the Establishments Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, policies enforced by the Department of Halth
Services, Financial and other regulations and rules and regulations and orders enacted from time to time by the Government.
17. The decision of the Secretary to the Ministry of Health will be final in respect of any issue arising out of the recruitment  to
the training which does not cover by this Gazette notification.
Secretary,
Ministry of Health.
Ministry of Health,
No. 385,
Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
07th February, 2011.
Specimen Form of Application
Ministry of Health
Recruitment of Students to be trained for posts of Opthalmologists, Dental Technologists, Entomological Assistants and
School Dental Therapists in the Para Medical Services - 2011
01.
02. (a) Name with Initials (in block capitals in English):
(b) Name in Full (in block capitals in English):
03. Postal Address : (in block capitals in English) :
04. (I). Permanent Address : (in block capitals in English):
(II). District :
(III). Are you a permanent resident in this District? Yes/No :
(IV). If yes, since when?
Code No.The Course you applied

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2011
319
05. Date of Birth: Year ……………………………………    Month:  …………………      Date: ………………………………
Age as at 25.03.2011 Years: ………………………… Months:  …………………………………  Days: …………………
06. Whether Male of Female: (Mark “    ” in the relevant cage)
07. Height:                            Feet:- …………………… inches:- ……………………
08. Are you a Citizen of Sri Lanka?
(Mark “    ” in the relevant cage)
09. National Identity card Number : ………………………………
10. Marital Status: ………………………………
11. Educational Qualifications:
(a) G. C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination (Science subjects only) (Please attach copy of mark list) :
Date of Examination : ……………………………
Year : ……………………………   Index Number: ……………………………
Z Score: ……………………………
(b) G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination :
First Sitting :
Year : …………………            Index No. : …………………
3
Male
Female
Ye s
No
Subject Grade
Subject Grade
01.
02.
03.
04.
GradeSubject
01.
02.
03.
04.
05.
06.
07.
08.
09.
10.
11.
12.
3

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2011
320
(b) G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination :
Second  Sitting :
Year : …………………            Index No. : …………………
12. Have you been convicted by a Court of Law for any charge?
(Mark “    ” in the relevant cage)
(If “yes” please furnish details:- ……………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………
13. Money Order Number:- ……………………………………
14. Certificate of Applicant :
(a) I do hereby certify that I am not following any other full time course at present and that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate to my knowledge.
(b) I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified to  be
selected for training and to dismissal without compensation if the inaccuracy is discovered after being appointed.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
Date :––––––––––.
15. Attestation of the signature:
I do hereby certify that the applicatn Mr./Mrs./Miss …………………………… is personally known to me and he/she placed his/her
signature in my presence on this day of ……………………………  2011.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
(with official frank)
Date :––––––––––.
Details of Attestor;
Full Name: ………………………………………………………………………………………
Designation: ………………………………………………………………………………………
Address: …………………………………………………………………………………………
(With official seal.)
02-551
Subject Grade GradeSubject
01.
02.
03.
04.
05.
06.
07.
08.
09.
10.
11.
12.
3
Ye s
No

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2011
321
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
Kandy District
Applications are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be enti tled
to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places s uch as
District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development Societies
and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District Registr ies.
Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 25th of March, 2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3,
Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
07th February, 2011.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretariat Application are called Applications should
Division be sent
Kandy Pathahewaheta Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/Kandyan) District Secretary/ Additional
of Pathahewaheta and Births Registrar General,
and Deaths of Haputhala Pahalagama Division. District Secretariat, Kandy.
Kandy Akurana Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/Kandyan) District Secretary/Additional
of Harispattuwa and Births and Deaths of Registrar General, District
Udagampaha No. 01 Division. Secretariat, Kandy.
Kandy Harispattuwa Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/Kandyan) District Secretary/Additional
of Harispattuwa and Birth and Deaths of Registrar General, District
Kulugammana Siyapattuwa No. 02 Division. Secretariat, Kandy.
Kandy Pathahewaheta Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/Kandyan) District Secretary/Additional
of Pathahewaheta and Births and Deaths of Registrar General, District
Gamdahaya South No. 02 Division. Secretariat, Kandy.
Kandy Minipe Hasalaka Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/Kandyan) District Secretary/Additional
of Ududumbara and Births and Deaths of Registrar General, District
Kandapahala South, South. Secretariat, Kandy.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2011
322
Kandy Udunuwara Post of Additional Marriage Registrar District Secretary/Additional
(General/Kandyan) of Yatinuwara Udunuwara Registrar General, District
Division. Secretariat, Kandy.
02-611
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretariat Application are called Applications should
Division be sent
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
Matara  District
Applications are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be enti tled
to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places s uch as
District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development Societies
and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District Registr ies.
Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 25th of March, 2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3,
Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
07th February, 2011.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretariat Application are called Applications should
Division be sent
Matara Devinuwara Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/ Additional
of Wellabodapattuwa and Four gravets Registrar General,
(Thalalla) Division. District Secretariat, Matara.
02-610
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.