

<!-- page 1 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .09.21
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2007
1033
1033
¡â¤ 1 ,516 _ 2007  ÌæÀà”æ´Ú 21 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .09.21
No. 1,516 – FRIDAY ,  SEPTEMBER 21, 2007
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1036
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1041
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 28th September, 2007 should reach the Government
Press on or before 12 noon on 14th September, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .09.21
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2007
1034
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .09.21
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2007
1035
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .09.21
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2007
1036
Post – Vacant
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
Vacancies in the Post of Police Constable Driver
APPLICATIONS are invited from the Citizens of Sri Lanka for post
of Police Constable Driver in the Sri Lanka Police Department.
02. Application forms duly perfected in accordance with the
Specimen form given below, should be sent to “Director
(Recruitment), Recruiting Office, 2nd Floor, New Secretariat Building,
Colombo 01. The applications should be sent by registered post to
the above mentioned address to reach on or before 21.12.2007 and
the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing applications should
be marked “Police Constable Driver” Delayed applications will be
rejected and no applications will be issued by the Sri Lanka Police
Department.
03. Salary Sclae.– Police Constable Driver.
Rs. 166,560 – 7 x 1,440 -27 x 1,800 – Rs. 225,240
(a) All uniforms will be provided free of charge.
(b) Facilities to improve skills and talents in sports.
(c ) Traveling expenses for duty and money will be granted as
rewards for outstanding and arduous duties.
04. Basic qualifications required.– Police Constable Driver.
(a) Age limits.– The age should be between 19 and 28 years as at
closing date as per the Gazette Notification.
Educational qualifications.–A minimum of six subjects
should have been passed not or than twice including maths and
language of recruitment in the G.C.E.(O/L) Examination.
Those who have passed  on two sittings should have passed five
subjectes on the first sitting.
Note 01.– According to the classification of subjects of the
Department of Examinations,  in calculating the number of
subjects passed at G.C.E. (O/L) both passes in Science
subjects numbers 41 and 44 will be treated as one subject and
both passes in Mathematics numbers 42 and 45 will be treated
as one subject  (They can’t be considered as four separate
subjects taking into account the number of subjects passed).
Note 02.– Failure in the technical subject at written test of G.C.E.
(O/L) examination will be considered as failure in the same
subject, although a pass has been obtained for the same in the
practical test.
Note 03.– Since optional subjects of Tamil, English and Sinhala
have not been included in the stream of G.C.E. (O/L) passes
in any of these subjects will not be computed as a pass in the
G.C.E. (O/L) examination.
(a) Physical Requirements.– Police Constable Driver
(i) Height 5 feet 03 inches.(minimum)
(ii)Chest 30 inches (deflated)
Note.– Applicants who are slightly short of the physical
requirements but fulfill the other stipulated qualifications will
be eligible at the discretion of Inspector General of Police
provided they have skills in sports or have achieved best
performance in sports at National level or they have earned
reputation for Sri Lanka by participating in an International
competition.
(b) Visual requirements.– Vision should not be less than 6/12
with each eye. If the vision is 6/6 with one eye and 6/18 with
the other eye will be accepted. Colour vision should be normal.
Applicants wearing spectacles or contact lenses will not be
eligible.
(c) Trade qualifications :
(i) Certificate of competence in  driving, light or heavy
vehicles.
(ii)Atleast, one year experience in driving motor vehicles
after obtaining the above certificate.
Note.– Priority will be given in case of knowledge of Motor
Mechanism, experience in repairs to vehicles and long
experience in driving vehicles.
(d) Other qualifications :
(i) Applicants should be unmarried (the divoresed persons will
also be traded as married for this purpose). This condition
will not be applicable for officers who presently server in
the Police Department and who have fulfilled the
qualifications.
(ii) If any applicant has deformity or any other physical
disability which impedes movement of physical limb required
for competence in driving will be disqualified. Although he
has obtained a medical certificate to the effect that he is fit
for the service.
(iii)The applicants who have basic qualification will be tested
for their ability for driving and maintain vehicles. Their
knowledge of road rules and traffic signals and basic
knowledge of mechanical theories of the vehicle in which the
applicant has achieved competence in driving will also be
tested.
(iv) Successful applicants should pass a medical examination
before they are enlisted. Applicants who are accepted as
disqualified for the Police service will be rejected.
(v) Applicants must qualify in an endurance test and a trade
test which will be held by the Police Department prior to
their appearance before he final selection board.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .09.21
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2007
1037
The following areas will be tested in the trade test.
(a) Competence in driving vehicles.
(b) The Highway code.
(c) Knowledge of maintenance of, and minor repairs to vehicles.
05. Conditions of Appointment :
This appointment is permanent and pensionable.
Contribution has to be made towards the widows/widowers
orphans’ pension scheme.
06. Conditions of Service :
(i) This appointment is subject to a period of probation for
three years.
(ii) The applicant should abide by any regulations already in
force enforce or which will be issued from time to time by the
Government for implementation of the Official language
Policy.
(iii) They should be subjected to the regulations given in the first
and second volume of the Establishments Code. Police
Disciplinary Code and any other regulation issued from time
to time by the Inspector General of Police or by the
Government.
(iv) Every officer should pass the Departmental all examination
specified, prior to their confirmation in the post. Those who
fail to pass the specified examination or those deemed to be
unfit for Police duties are liable to be removed from service.
(v) Basic training will be 01 year at the Sri Lanka Police College
and the regional training will be 02 years.
(vi) The appointees will not be permitted to marry until they are
confirmed in their posts, However, in terms of the notification
41 of the Police Gazette II dated 28th February, 1973, the
officers who have completed a minimum period of two years
satisfactory service could get married on the permission
granted by the Inspector General of Police, under special
circumstances.
(vii) Application on being appointed and after the training should
serve a probationary period of three years in the Police
Department and If they wish to resign from the service before
their probation is over, they should sign an agreement of
consent to the effect that they are willing to pay of the time
of tendering their resignation, any amount which was incurred
on uniforms etc., during on by the Director of Police Training
College. The acceptance of resignation should confirm to the
Section 4 Chapter 5 in  volume 1 of the Establishment
Code, 1985.
(viii) Probationary Police constable Driver immediately after they
have commenced training at the Police  Training college should
affirm/swear that they adhere to the Police Disciplinary Code
in terms of the I.G.P . circular No. 1693/2003. Sub Inspector
of Police who have been confirmed in the post will have
opportunities for promotions according to the approved
scheme of promotion of the police Department.
(ix) They should soon after commencing  the training at Police
College, subscribe the Oath of Allegiance to the Public Service
in terms of the I.G.P.’s Circular No. 1804/2004.
(x) Police Constable Driver will have the scope for  promotion
in terms of the approved scheme of promotion of the Police
Department.
07. (i) Attention is invited to the general conditions applicable to
appointment to posts in the Police Service Published in the Section
(II A) of the Part I of this Gazette.
(ii) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public Administration
Circular No. 15/90 dated 10.03.1990.
08. Applicants should annex copies of the following documents
to their application. (Originals must not be forwarded).
(i) Birth Certificate ;
(ii) Two recent testimonials of character (obtained from persons
who are not related) ;
(iii)Certificates in support of educational qualifications.
(iv) Certificates in support of any outstanding sports or other
extra curricular activities ;
(iv) Certificate of service experience (if available) ;
(v) A Photostat copy of the National Identity Card.
09. (a) Applications from applicants who are already in the
Public Service/Services must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective departments and must be accompanied by a certificate
stating that the officers can be released, if selected.
(b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their own
hand writing on paper 11"x 8" in size and post them, together with
the copies of certificates called for to the address given in paragraph
2, and under no circumstances should applications be handed over
personally to any officer in the Department.
10. Applications, which do not confirm to the requirements
stipulated in this notification will be rejected and such applicants
will not be notified.
Note.– No Traveling or other expenses will be paid to applicants
who are summoned for the test and interview.
Inspector-General of Police.
Police Headquarters,
Colombo 01.
Web Site :- www.police.lk.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .09.21
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2007
1038
POLICE DEPARTMENT
POLICE  CONSTABLE  DRIVER
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
01. Name in full (in block letters)  :–——.
(As stated in the applicants Birth Certificate) : 
02. Name with Initials :–——.
(b) Gender :–——.
03. National Identity card No. : ————.
04. Farther’s name in Full : ————.
05. Place of birth of the applicant :–——.
(a)  (police station to which the place of birth belongs): —–.
(b) Province :–——.
06. (a) Present address : ————.
(b) Police station to which the present address belongs :–——.
(c) Permanent address : ————.
(d) Police station and the Electorate to which the permanent
address belongs : ————.
07. (a) Nationality : ————.
(b) Whether you are citizen by birth or registration ? (If by
registration attached a copies of the certificate ): ————.
If you are a Citizen by birth, state the place of birth of :–—
.
(i) Applicant : ————.
(ii)Applicant’s father : ————.
(iii)Applicant’s paternal Grand father : ————.
(iv) Applicant’s paternal great Grand father : ————.
08. Date of Birth:
Age (As on the closing date of application given in the
Gazette): ————.
Years : ————, Months : ————, Days : ————.
 (copy of the birth certificate should be attached)
09. Height(Inches) : ————,     Chets (Inches) : ————.
10. Educational qualifications : ————.
(State Examinations passed and attach copies of cerficates)
11. Whether married or single : ————.
12. (i) Present employment : ————.
(ii)Are you a members of the any Armed Force ? :————.
13.Have you any special claims and/or Qualifications : ————.
14. Give names and address of two non-related referees  : ——.
(i) ––––––––––––.
(ii)––––––––––––.
15. Have you served earlier in  the Police Service  or Reserve
Police Service ? (If so, reasons for leaving the service, give
particulars):—–—.
16. Have you been enlisted in the police service or Sri Lanka Police
Reserve ? (If so state the date of appointment, rank and the
constabulary number), copy of the Appointments should be
attached :–––––––––.
17. (a) Are you serving in any of the Armed Services ? (If so your
application must be submitted through the respective Service
Commander  :————.
(b) Have you served in any of the Armed Services ? (If so,
attached copy of your discharge certificate) : ————.
18. (a) Are you serving as a V olunteer in any one of the Armed
Services? (If so your application must be submitted through
the respective Service Commander)  : ————.
(b) Have you served as a V olunteer in any of the Armed Services ?
(If so attach a copy /copies of your discharg certificate/
certificates:——,
19. Have you been involve in or concerned in or charged or arrested
even on suspicion and or convicted of any offence ? (If so, give
details) :––––––––.
20. Have any of your relatives been involved in or concerned in or
charged or arrested even on suspicion, or concivted of any
offence ? (If so, give details) :——,
I hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct to
the best of my knowledge and believe. I am aware that I am liable
for termination of my service in the Police Department forthwith
(even if I have been appointed at any  time) if the particulars
furnished are found to be incorrect or false.
————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date : ————.
09-851/1

<!-- page 7 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .09.21
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2007
1039
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
Vacancies in the Post of Women Police Constable
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for Post
of Women Police Constable in the Sri Lanka Police Department.
2. Application forms duly perfected in accordance with
the specimen form given below should be sent to Director
(Recruitment), Recruiting Office, 2nd Floor, New Secretariat
Building, and Colombo -01. The applications should be sent by
registered post to  the above mentioned address to reach on or before
21.12.2007  and the top left hand corner of the envelop enclosing
applications should be marked Women Police Constable. Delayed
applications will be rejected and no applications will be issued by
the Sri Lanka Police Department.
3. Salary Scale :
* Women Police Constable
Rs. 166,560 - 7 x 1,440 - 27 x 1,800 - 225,240.
(a) All uniforms will be provided free of charge ;
(b) Facilities to improve skills and talents in sports ;
(c) Traveling expenses for duty and money will be granted as
rewards for outstanding and arduous duties.
4. Basic Qualifications Required :
  *Women Police Constable
(a) Age Limits :
The age should be between 18 and 25 years as at closing
date as per the Gazette Notifications.
Educational Qualifications :
  *Women Police Constable
Applicant should have passed the G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination in 06 subjects at one sitting with Medium
Language and Mathematics.
Note 01.–  According to the classification of subjects of the
Department of Examinations, in calculating the number of
subjects passed at G. C. E. (O/L) both passes in science
subjects number 41 and 44 will be treated as one subject
and both passes in Mathematics number 42 and 45 will be
treated as one subject. (They can't be considered as four
separate subjects taking into account the number of sub-
jects passed.)
Note 02.– Failure in the Technical subject at Written Test of
G. C. E. (O/L) examination will be considered as failure in
the same subject although a pass has been obtained for the
same in the Practical Test.
Note 03.– Since optional subjects of Tamil, English and Sinhala
have not been included in the stream of G. C. E. (O/L),
passes in any of these subjects will not be computed as a
pass in the G. C. E. (O/L) examination.
(a) Physical Requirements :
*Women Police Constable
*Height : 5 feet 02 inches (minimum)
Note.– Applicants who are slightly short of the physical
requirements but fulfill the other stipulated qualifications
will be eligible at the discretion of Inspector General of
Police provided they have skills in sports or have achieved
best performance in sports at national level or they have
earned reputation for Sri Lanka by participating in an
international competition.
(b) Visual Requirements :
Vision should not be less than 6/12 with each eye. If the vision
is 6/6 with one eye and 6/18 with the other eye will be
accepted. Colour vision should be normal. Applicants
wearing spectacles or contact lenses will not be eligible.
(c) Other Qualifications :
(a) Applicants should be unmarried (the divorced persons
will also be treated as married for this purpose). This
condition will not be applicable for officers who presently
server in the Police Department and who have fulfilled
the qualifications.
(b) Applicants who are in the required are limit and fulfill
stipulated basic educational qualifications and physical
requirements will be given preference if they have sports
skills and special performances.
(c) Applicants should get through the  test of basic
qualification, endurance test and written test conducted
by the Police Department before they attend the final
selection board. The written test consists  of two papers.
The written test consists of two question paper viz.
* Question paper on construction of sentences - Duration -
45 Minutes
* Question paper  general knowledge and Intelligence test -
Duration - 01 Hour
* Successful applicants should pass a medical examination
before they are enlisted. Applicants who are accepted as
disqualified for the Police Service will be rejected.
5. Conditions of Appointment :
(i) This appoinment is permanent and pensionable.
Contribution has to be made towards the widows/
widowers orphans pension scheme.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .09.21
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2007
1040
6. Conditions of Service :
(i) This appointment is subject to a period of probation for
three years.
(ii)The applicant should abide by any regulation already in
force enforce or which will be issued from time to time by
the Government for implementation of the Official
Language Policy.
(iii)They should be subjected to the regulations given in the
first and second volume of the Establishment Code,
Police Disciplinary Code and any other regulation issued
from time to time by the Inspector General of Police or
by the Government.
(iv) Every officer should pass the Department all examina-
tion specified, prior to their confirmation in the post.
Those who fail to pass the specified examination or those
deemed to be unfit for Police duties are liable to be re-
moved from service.
(v) Basic training will be 01 year at the Sri Lanka Police
College and the regional training will be 02 years.
(vi) The appointees will not be permitted to marry until they
are confirmed in their posts. However, in terms of the
notification 41 of the Police Gazette II dated 28th
February, 1973, the officers who have completed a mini-
mum period of two years satisfactory service could get
married on the permission granted by the Inspector Gen-
eral of Police, under special circumstances.
(vii)Applicants on being appointed and after the training
should serve a probationary period of three years in the
Police Department and if they wish to resign from service
before their probation is over, they should sign an
agreement of consent to the effect that they are willing to
pay at the time of tendering their resignation, any amount
which was incurred on uniforms etc., during on by the
Director of Police Training Collage. The acceptance of
resignation should confirm to the Section 4 Chapter 5 in
V olume 1 of the Establishment Code 1985.
(viii)Probationary Women Police Constable immediately after
they have commenced training at the Police Training
Collage should affirm/swear that they adhere to Police
Disciplinary Code in terms of the I. G. P . Circular No.
1693/2003. Sub Inspector of Police who have been
confirmed in the post will have opportunities for
promotions according to the approved scheme of
promotion of the Police Department.
(ix)They should soon after commencing the training at Police
College, subscribe the Oath of Allegiance to the Public
Service, in terms of the I. G. P. s Circular No. 1804/2004.
(x) Women Police Constable will have the scope for
promotion in terms of the approved scheme of promotions
of the Police Department.
7. (i) Attention is invited to the general conditions applicable to
Appointment to posts in the Police Service published in the
Section (IIA) of the Part 1 of this Gazette.
(ii)Enlistment will be made in terms of Public Administration
Circular No.15/90 dated 10.03.1990.
8. Applicants should annex copies of following documents to their
application. (Originals must not be forwarded) :
(i) Birth Certificate;
(ii) Two recent testimonials of character (obtained from per-
sons who are not related);
(iii)Certificates in support of educational qualifications ;
(iv) Certificates in support of any outstanding sports or other
extra curricular activities;
(v) Certificates of service experience, (if available) ;
(vi) A Photostat copy of the National Identity Card.
9. (a) Applications from applicants who are already in the Public
Service/Services must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective departments and must be accompanied by a
certificate stating that the officers can be released, if selected.
(b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their own
hand writing on paper 11" x 8" in size and post them, together
with the copies of certificates called for to the address given
in paragraph 2 and under no circumstances should applications
be handed over personally to any officer in the department.
10. Applications, which do not conform to the requirements
stipulated in this notification will be rejected and such applicants
will not be notified.
Note.– No Travelling or other expenses will be paid to
applicants who are summoned for the test and interview.
V
ICTOR  PERERA ,
Inspector General of Police.
Police Headquarters,
Colombo 01.
Web Site : www.police.lk
POLICE  DEPARTMENT
W
OMEN  POLICE  CONSTABLE
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
01. Name in full (In block letters) :————.
(As stated in the applicant’s Birth Certificate) :
02. Name with initials :————.
03. National Identity Card No. :————.
04. Father’s Name in Full :————.
05. Place of birth of the applicant :————.
 (a) Police station to which the place of birth belongs :———.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .09.21
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2007
1041
06. (a) Present address :————.
(b) Police station to which the present address belongs :—–—.
(c) Permanent Address :————.
(d) Police station and the electorate to which the permanent
address belongs :————.
07. (a) Nationality :————.
(b) Whether you are citizen by birth or registration (if by
registration attach copies of the certificate)
If you are a citizen by birth state the place of birth of -
(i) Applicant :————.
(ii)Applicant’s Father :————.
(iii)Applicant’s paternal grandfather :————.
(iv)  Applicant’s paternal great grandfather :————.
08. Date of Birth :————.
Age : (as on the closing date of application given in the Gazette):
Years :————, Months :————, Days :————.
(Copy of birth certificate should be attached)
09. Height (Inches) :————. Chest (Inches) :————.
10. Educational Qualifications  (State Examinations passed and at-
tach Copies of certificates) :————.
11. Whether married or single :————.
12. (i) Present employment :————.
(ii)Are you a member of any Armed Force :
13. Have you any special claims and/or qualifications :————.
14. Give names and address of two non - related referees :
 (i) ————.
(ii)————.
15. Have you served earlier in the Police Service or Reserve Police
Service? (If so, reasons for leaving the service, give particulars)
:————.
16. Have you been enlisted in the Police Service or Sri Lanka Police
Reserve ? (If so state the date of appointment, rank and the
constabulary number), Copy of the Appointment should be
attached :————.
17. (a) Are you serving in any of the Armed Services? (if so your
application must be submitted through the respective Service
Commander) :————.
(b) Have you served in any of the Armed Services? (If so, attach
copy of your discharge certificate) :————.
18. Have you been involved in or  concerned in or charged or arrested
even on suspicion and or convicted of any offence? (if so, give
details) :————.
19. Have any of your relatives been involved in or concerned in or
charged or arrested even on suspicion, or convicted of any offence?
(If so, give details) :————.
I, hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct to
the vest of my knowledge and belief. I am aware that I am liable for
termination of my service in the Police Department forthwith (even
if I have been appointed at any time) if the particulars furnished are
found to be incorrect or false.
——––––——,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :————.
09-851/2
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
FIRST  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR
DEVELOPMENT  OFFICERS  AND  PROJECT
OFFICERS  RECRUITED  UNDER  THE  MINISTRY
OF  PLAN  IMPLEMENTATION  -  2007
THE Efficiency Bar Examination for Development Officers and
Project Officers recruited under the Ministry of Plan Implementa-
tion which should be passed before they reach the third step of the
salary scale will be held in Colombo in the December by the Com-
missioner General of Examinations. The closing date for the applica-
tions will be on 22nd October 2007.
02. Scheme of Examination :-
This efficiency bar examination will consist of the following
subjects:
(1) Financial Regulations/Office System (2h) Marks - 100
(2) English Language (1 1/2h) Marks - 100
Note :
(a) An Officer may sit all subjects in one attempt or several
attempts.
(b) A candidate should obtain 40% or above, of the marks in each
paper for a pass.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .09.21
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2007
1042
03. Subjects :-
(1) Financial Regulations/Office System (2h) :- Marks - 100
(i) State Management Structure of Sri Lanka
(ii)Financial Control and Annual Estimates
(iii)Orders of the Establishment Code and Financial Regulations:
The following Chapters of the Establishment Code will be
covered :  i, ii, iv, v, vii, ix, xii, xv, xxiii, xxvi, xxvii, xxx, xxxi, xxxii, xxxiii
State Financial Regulations - 1st Section (except the Chapter X)
(iv) Office Management
(2) English Language (1 1/2h) :- Marks - 100
This question paper is designed to test the English knowledge re-
quired for the Development Officers to carry out their duties. This
paper will be in level of G. C. E. (O/L) paper and will consist of
language knowledge, essay writing, precis writing, grammer and com-
prehension.
04. Qualifications :-
The Officers who were recruited as a Development Officer or a
Project Officer under the Ministry of Plan Implementation are eligible
to sit for this examination.
05. Method of Application :-
(a) An application form should be prepared on a A4 size paper
using both sides according to the specimen form appended at the end
of this notification. Column 1 to 7 should be prepared in the first
page and other columns should be prepared in the second page. The
form should be filled in by the candidate's own hand writing.
The applications which are not according to the specimen
application form and, the applications which are not duly completed
will be rejected without any notification. (Keeping photocopy of
the application will be useful). The applications should be forwarded
according to the specimen application form and otherwise they will
be rejected. When preparing the application, the Heading of the
Application and the name of the Examination should be in English
for Sinhalese and Tamil applications.
(b) Examination Fees :-
Fees will be charged from the candidates who sit for this examination
on the following basis :-
(a) For the first sitting Free
(b) For the whole Examination after the first sitting Rs. 115.00
(c) For a single subject Rs. 75.00
A cash receipt obtained from any Divisional Secretariat in the
Island drawn in favour of the Revenue Head 4000-20-03-20-13 of
Commissioner General of Examinations should be affixed to the
application (Keeping a photocopy of the receipt will be useful).
(c) Applications should be sent through the Heads of the
Departments by Registered Post to reach the Commissioner General
of Examinations, National Evaluation and Testing Services,
Department of Examination of Sri Lanka, P. O. Box 07, Palawaththa,
Battaramulla on or before October 22. The name of the examination
should be mentioned on the top left-hand corner of the envelope.
(Keeping a photocopy of the receipt will be useful).
(d) Applications should be prepared in the language in which the
candidates sit for the examination. It cannot be changed afterwards.
(e) Applications which are not in the above relevant format and
do not contain all information and delay to reach will be rejected
without any notification. No allegation that an application has been
lost or delayed in the post will be considered.
06. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue admission
cards together with a copy of the Time Table to all candidates whose
applications have been accepted. If a candidate doesn't receive his
Admission Card at least seven days before the day of the examination
he should communicate without delay with the following information
to the Commissioner General of Examinations, Organizations and
Foreign Examinations Division, Sri Lanka Examinations Department,
Palawaththa, Battaramulla. The Dept. of examination will publish a
paper notice as soon as the admission cards are issued. If admission
cards are not received even after 2 - 3 days of the paper notice, the
applicant should inform the Dept. of Examination as specified in the
notice. It is more effective to send the certified copies of the application
and cash receipt and the Registered Post receipt, a fax number to fax
the admission card if you are living outside Colombo to Dept. of
Examinations.
(i) Name of the Examination ;
(ii) Full name of Applicant ;
(iii)Full postal address ;
(iv) A photocopy of the application ;
(v) A photocopy of the cash receipt (only if relevant).
07. Identity Cards :- Candidature will be required to prove their
identity (in respect of each subject) in the examination hall to the
satisfaction of the supervisor. For this purpose any of the follwing
documents will be accepted.
(a) A valid Identity Card issued by the Commissioner for
Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid Passport.
The Commissioner General of Examinations has the power to
cancel or reject the candidature of any applicant who is unable to
provide any one of the above mentioned documents. Also, on the
day of the examination, the Admission Card with the certified
signature should be submitted to the supervisor.
08. Heads of the Departments are requested to grant duty leave
to officers of his Departments who have been issued Admission
Cards by the Commissioner General of Examinations to present
themselves at the examination. The candidates are subjected to all
rules and regulations imposed by Commissioner General of
Examination. If such make or regulation is violated, the candidate
should have to face penalty imposed by the Commissioner General
of Examinations.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .09.21
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2007
1043
09. Any matter not provided for in these regulations, will be dealt
with direction of this Ministry.
D HARA  WIJAY ATILAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Plan Implementation.
Level 12, Tower 05,
Central Bank Building,
No.30, Janadhipathi Mawatha,
Colombo 01.
First Efficiency Bar Examination for Development Officers
and Project Officers Recruited under the Ministry of Plan
Implementation - 2007
Note : This form should be filled correctly and legibly in candidate’s
own handwriting.
Language Medium in which
you sit for the Examination
Sinhala - 2/Tamil-3/English-4
(Put the appropriate number in relevant cage)
01. (I) Name with initials with initials at the end(In English Capital
letters Ex.: SILV A A. B.) :————————.
(II) Name at the end with initials (In Sinhala/ Tamil):————.
(III) Name denoted by initials (In Sinhala/Tamil):—————
(IV) Name denoted by initials (In English Capital Letters):——
.
02. (I) Official Address (In Sinhala/Tamil):—————.
(II) Address to which the Admission Card should be sent to
(In English capital letters):—————
03. Date of Birth :
Year:              Month:             Date:
04. Date of assumed duties as a Development Officer/Project Officer
(The exact date on which duties were assumed should be stated)
Year :              Month:              Date:
05. Subjects applied for under Para. 2 of the Gazette Notification:–
.
(I) Subject : Subject No.:
(II) Subject : Subject No.:
06. Are you sitting for the examination for the first time?:–——.
(For Office use only)
07. If not the first sitting, examination fees paid:—————
Fee for the whole examination is Rs. 115. If it is for one subject,
Rs. 75. A cash receipt obtained from any Divisional Secretariat in
the Island drawn in favour of the revenue head 4000-20-03-20-13 of
Commissioner General of Examinations should be affixed to the cage
below. Keeping a photocopy of the receipt will be useful.
To paste the receipt
I hereby declare that the particulars furnished in this application
are correct and I am entitled to sit for the examination in the language
medium indicated above, and I agree to abide by all rules and
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
—————,
Candidate’s Signature.
Date:—————.
Note:- The candidate should sign in the presence of his/her Head
of Department or an officer authorized to sign on behalf of such
Head of Department or his local head.
09. Attestation:-
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ————— who is an officer in my
office and who is known to me personally has put his/her signature
in my presence in this —————day of—————2007.
—————,
Signature of Attestor.
(Official Seal should be placed)
Name:—————.
Designation:—————.
Address:—————.
10. Certificate of Head of the Department :-
(I) The particulars furnished above have been checked and
found to be correct.
(II) I certify that the candidate is eligible to sit for this
examination.
(III) I certify that the correct examination fees have been paid
and the receipt is fixed.
—————,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
(Official Seal should be placed)
Name:—————.
Designation:—————.
Address:—————.
09-828
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.