

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'05'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.05.2017
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Government  Notifications
w;s úfYI
wxl 2021$27 - 2017 uehs ui 31 jeks nodod - 2017'05'31
No. 2021/27 - WEDNESDAY,  MAY  31, 2017
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
L.D.B. 3/ 2016
PROTECTION OF  THE RIGHTS OF  PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES  ACT,  No. 28 OF  1996
RULES made by the National Council for Persons with Disabilities under Section 26 read with Sections 12 and 13 of the
Protection of the Rights of  Persons with Disabilities Act, No. 28 of 1996.
Chairman,
For and on behalf of the National Council
for Persons with Disabilities.
Colombo,
30th May, 2017.
Rules
1. These rules may be cited as the White Cane Rules No. of  ...........2017.
2. It is desirable for a blind or visually impaired person to carry or use a white cane to indicate their identity and
protection :
Provided however, nothing contained in this rule shall be construed as depriving a blind or visually impaired
person, not carrying such a cane of  the rights and privileges conferred by any written law.
3. A blind or visually impaired person using a white cane may carry a medical certificates as proof of his visual
impairment.
4 (a) A long white cane with red at the bottom may be used by a blind or visually imparied person.
(b) The types of canes referred to in paragraph (a) may be :
(i) rigid ; or
(ii) collapsible,
       which may help to navigate the area ahead of the user.
1A- G  25647— 09 (05/2017)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'05'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.05.2017
2A
(c) The type of white cane used may depend on the person’s visual impairment, age, height and other specific
needs.
(d) Training for the use of the cane and travel skills may be provided by the certified orientation and mobility
specialist.
5. Whenever a blind or visually impaired person carries in a raised or extended position a cane which is white in
colour or white tipped with red, crosses or attempts to cross away, the driver of every vehicle approaching the place where
such pedestrian is crossing or attempting to cross shall take such precautions as may be necessary to avoid injuring such
pedestrian.
6. (a) The blind and the visualy impaired person shall have the same right as the able-bodied to the full and free
use of streets, highways, sidewalks, public buildings, public facilities and other public places ;
(b) The blind and the visually imparied persons are entitled to full and equal accommodations, advantages,
facilities and privileges of all common carriers, air planes, motor vehicles, railroads, trains, motor buses,
street cars, boats or any other public conveyances or modes of transportation, hotels, lodging places,
places of public accommodation, amusements or resorts and other places to which the general public is
invited subject to any condition or limitation established by law and applicable to all persons.
(c) The blind and visually impaired persons shall be entitled to full and equal access, as other members of the
general public, to all housing accommodations offered for rent or lease subject to the conditions and
limitations established by law.
7. For the purpose of these Rules
“Visual impairment” means reduction in vision that cannot be corrected with standard glasses or contact
lenses and it reduces a persons’ ability to function at certain or all tasks, it includes
(i) inability to see images clearly and distinctly ;
(ii) loss of visual field ;
(iii) inability to detect small changes in brightness ;
(iv) colour blindness ;
(v) sensivity to light
06-487
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.