

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
625
wxl 1"806 - 2013 wfm%a,a 12 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'04'12
No. 1,806  – FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2013
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (B) — LOCAL GOVERNMENT
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Notices under the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance —
Statements of Revenue & Expenditure ... —
Budgets ... ––
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
PAGE
Posts - Vacants ... 626
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Local Government Notifications ... 638
Notices - calling for Tenders ... ––
By-Laws ... 638
625
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 03rd May, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 19th  April,
2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SILV A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
N.B.— The Catalogue of Books printed quarterly in January - March, 2010 has been published in Part V of this Gazette.
Note .— (i) Defence Services Command and Staff College (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 22, 2013.
(ii) Earl Gunasekara Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 22, 2013.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
626
Posts – Vacant
WALALLA VITA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Vacancies
APPLICATIONS for under mentioned posts are invited for Western Provincial Government Service from suitable applicants residing in
Walallavita Pradeshiya Sabha territory.
Self prepared applications in accordance with the specimen application form should be sent to "Secretary" Walallavita Pradeshiya
Sabha - Meegahathenna on or before 30th April 2013 in registered post.
Serial Designation No. of Salary Scale Employment procedure
No. Posts Education qualifications
01 Driver 02 PL3-2006A Grade 8 certificate or above from a school approved by Director
Rs. 12,470-10x130- General of education.
10x145-10x 160-
12x170 - Rs. 18,860 Professional qualifications :
Possess a competency certificate from Commissioner of Motor
Traffic to drive private/hire vehicles and vans. (three years
experience with a valid certificate is required)
Possess a good knowledge of road rules.
Other qualifications :
At least 5 feet or above in height.
A good eye sight in both day and night
02 Field worker 06 PL-2006 Grade 5/6 certificate or above from a school approved by Director
Rs. 11,730 -10x120- General of education.
10x130 -10x145 -
12x160 - Rs. 17,600
03 Sanitary worker 04 PL-2006A No educational qualifications are required
Rs. 11,730 -10x120-
10x130 -10x145 -
12x160 - Rs. 17,600
04 Operator of 01 PL-2006 1. Internal applicants should possess a pass in Grade 8 (Year 9)
cremation house Rs. 12,210-10x130-
10x145-10x160 - 2. External applicants should possess minimum of two passes in
12x170 - Rs. 18,600 any two subject in G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) examination.
05 Assistant Operator 02 Rs. 11,730 -10x120 - Applicants should possess a pass in Grade 8 (Y ear 9)
of cremation house 10x130 -10x145 -
12x160 - Rs. 17,600
06 Machine Operator 02 PL2-2006A A pass at least in Grade 10.
Rs. 12,210-10x130 -
10x145-10x160- Professional qualifications :
12x170 - Rs. 18,600
1. Possess a competency certificate from Commissioner of Motor
Traffic to drive vehicles such as buses with more than 32
passengers and motor vehicles heavier than 34.
2. Should be at least 5 fleets and 6 inches in height.
3. Possess a minimum of one year old competency certificate for
the suggested post (mentioned No. 1) from a government
approved institute.
4. Possess a basic knowledge in motor mechanic.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
627
Other qualifications :
1. Applicants should NOT be less than 18 years or over 45 years of age on the final day of applications are received.
2. Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka either by descend or by registration.
3. He/She should be a permanent resident of Walallavita Pradeshiya Sabha territory for a minimum period of 5 year.
4. Possess a sound health and a good character.
5. Should not have been penalized or convicted by Court of Law.
6. Should not have been interdicted from government service or a pensioner under Circular No. 44/90.
7. Priority is given to applicants who are already attached to Walallavita Pradeshiya Sabha on contract basis.
8. Should possess minimum educational qualifications mentioned against each post.
Employment conditions :
1. The above posts are permanent and pensionable.
2. Should contribute to W & OP .
3. All the posts carry a three years probationary period.
Selected candidates need to be abide by the rules and regulations issued then and there by the Governmental Departments, Western
Provincial Council State Commission and Administration Code.
Method of application.– Self prepared applications in accordance with specimen form attached to this notice on a 12"x8" size
paper should be sent to "Secretary" Walallavita Pradeshiya Sabha, Meegahathenna with applied post written on top left hand corn er of
envelope on or before 30.04.2013 by registered post. (Applicants, already in Provincial Government service should send their applications
through Head of Department). Applications received after the closing date are rejected.
02. Photocopies should be attached to the application and originals should be forwarded at the interview :
* Birth certificate.
* Educational certificates.
* "Grama Seva" certificate with an endorsement from Divisional Secretary to prove permanent residency.
* Two recently obtained character certificates (one should be from "Grama Seva Niladhari").
* Professional/Service certificates (Governmental/Provincial).
Method of enrollment :
1. Applicants with suitable qualifications will be called for a structured interview.
2. Secretary of Walallavita Pradeshiya Sabha holds sole power to cancel or postpone recruitments after or during applications
are invited.
M. A. I
NDRANI,
Secretary,
Walallavita Pradeshiya Sabha.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF ................................... WESTERN PROVINCIAL STATE SERVICE
01. (i) Name with initials :––––––––––––.
(ii) Names denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
02. Permanent residence :––––––––––––.
2.1 District of permanent residence :––––––––––––.
03. (i) Date of birth :––––––––––––.
(ii) Age as at 08.02.2013 :
Years :––––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––––,  Dates :––––––––––––.
04. Sex :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
628
05. N. I. C. Number :––––––––––––.
06. Citizenship :––––––––––––.
(Please state weather you are a citizen of Sri Lanka by descends or by registration)
07. Educational qualifications :
(i) Grade/Year passed :––––––––––––.
(ii) G . C. E. (O/L) exam :––––––––––––.
Index Number :––––––––––––. Exam year and month :––––––––––––.
Subject :––––––––––––. Grade :––––––––––––.
08. State if you are already attached to service of the Pradeshiya Sabha :––––––––––––.
09. Experience/Professional qualifications :––––––––––––.
10. State if convicted by a Court of Law :––––––––––––.
I certify that the information furnished by in this application are true and correct. I am aware that I am disqualified if furnished
informations are found faulty and I am liable to be interdicted without any compensation if information provided by me are found to be un-
true after recruitment.
––––––––––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––––. Signature of applicant.
ENDORSEMENT OF HEAD OF DEPARTMENT
I forward this application of Mr./Ms. .......................................... who is in employment of this Department/Institute and I certify
that no actions or punishments have been taken agains him/her.
Head of Department :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
(Official stamp)
04–331
––––––––––––––––––
HAMBANTOTA  MUNICIPAL  COUNCIL
Southern Province Public Service
APPLICA TIONS are invited from eligible persons who are permanently residing in the Hambantota Municipal Council area for recruitment
to vacant posts of the Hambantota Municipal Council.
01. Sri Lanka Drivers' Service III  :
Serial Designation Class Number  of Salary Scale Education qualifications
No. Vacancies
1 Driver Class III 07 PL3-2006A Should have passed the G . C. E (O/L)
Primary Level Rs. 12,470 -10x130 - 10x145- examination in any six subjects in not
skilled 10x160 -12x170 - Rs. 18,860 more than two attempts
(Efficiency Bar before reaching
salary step 4)
Other qualifications.– Should have a valid driving license and competency certificate issued by the Commissioner General of
Motor Traffic for each vacant of Driver depending on the type of vehicle and further, such drivers should have a minimum of three years
experience as a driver after obtaining a valid driving license (service certificate should be submitted).

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
629
Recruitment Procedure :
(i) Recruitments are made following the publication of the Gazette Notification of calling applications and after verifying the
professional competency through a test and conducting a structured interview.
(ii) All appointments and recruitments made to this service category should be strictly in conformity with the provisions of
the Driver Service Minute meant for institutional drivers of the Local Government Department of the Public Service of the
Southern Province.
(iii) Only the eligible candidates are called for the interviews.
Remark.– Priority would be given to those candidates currently servicing in the Hambantota Municipal Council, who have
completed three years of uninterrupted service in the Hambantota Municipal Council on the basis of Substitute/Casual/Contract workers.
(This should be established through history sheet).
General conditions for recruitment :
(i) All candidates should be Sri Lankan citizens.
(ii) Most immediate three years of permanent residency in the Hambantota Municipal Council area to the last date the
applications are accepted.
(iii) Age of an applicant should be not less than 18 and not more than 45 to the last date the applications are accepted. (for
permanent public servants the maximum age limit is applicable).
(iv) Candidates should not have been penalized by a Court of Law under Penal Code.
(v) Candidates should be of excellent moral character and physically sound and if selected should submit themselves to a
medical examination conducted by a Government Medical Officer and if the candidate is found to be physically unfit
during such a medical examination the appointment may be cancelled.
(vi) Candidates should have satisfied the minimum qualifications set out for that post.
Terms of engagement :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable and all candidates recruited to these posts should be liable to contribute to the
Widows' and Orphans' Pension Scheme/Widowers' and Orphans' Pension Scheme.
(ii) This permanent post is subject to a three year probation period.
(iii) In addition, all officers are bond to comply with conditions of the Establishment Code and regulations imposed from time
to time by the Southern Provincial Council and recommendations of the Governor General of the Southern Province and
to comply with orders issued by the Public Service Commission of the Southern Province and orders issued by Commissioner
General of Local Government and Head of Local Governments.
02. Office Employees Assistant Service - Class II and III :
Serial Designation Class Number of Salary Scale Education qualifications
No. V acancies
2 Office Employee's Class II 4 PL 1-2006A Should have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) in
Assistant II non skilled Rs. 11,730-10x120 - not less than 06 subjects with 02 credits
10x130- 10x145 -12x160- in one sitting
 Rs. 17,600
3 Road Labourer Class III 16 PL 1-2006A Should have passed Grade 09
non skilled Rs. 11,730-10x120 -
10x130- 10x145 -12x160-
 Rs. 17,600
4 Health Labourer Class III 25 PL 1-2006A Should have passed Grade 09
non skilled Rs. 11,730-10x120 -
10x130- 10x145 -12x160-
 Rs. 17,600

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
630
03. Non classed posts :
Serial Designation Class Number of Salary Scale Education qualifications
No. V acancies
5 Machine Operator Primary 01 PL 2-2006A Should have passed Grade 09
level III Rs. 12,210 -10x130 -
semi skilled 10x145- 10x160 -12x170-
 Rs. 18,600
6 Electrician Primary 01 PL 2-2006A Should have passed Grade 09
level III Rs. 12,210 -10x130 -
semi skilled 10x145- 10x160 -12x170-
 Rs. 18,600
7 Carpenter Primary 01 PL 2-2006A Should have passed Grade 09
level III Rs. 12,210 -10x130 -
semi skilled 10x145- 10x160 -12x170-
 Rs. 18,600
8 Curator Primary 01 PL 2-2006A Should have passed Grade 09
 playgrounds level III Rs. 11,730 -10x120 -
non skilled 10x130- 10x145 -12x160-
 Rs. 17,600
9 Woodcutter Primary 01 PL 2-2006A Should have passed Grade 09
level III Rs. 11,730 -10x120 -
non skilled 10x130- 10x145 -12x160-
 Rs. 17,600
10 Custodian Slaughter Primary 01 PL 2-2006A Should have passed Grade 09
 house level III Rs. 11,730 -10x120 -
non skilled 10x130- 10x145 -12x160-
 Rs. 17,600
Other qualifications :
(i) Candidates applying for posts under semi skilled category such as machine operator, electrician and carpenter (PL2-
2006A) should submit NVQ1, NVQ2 or 3 competency certificates issued by the V ocational Training Authority or else
submit an equivalent certificate for Vocational Training accepted by the Government.
(ii) Candidates applying for posts under semi-skilled No. 3 above should have at least two year experience in the relevant post
in a Government Institute/Government Co-operation or Statutory Board or any other institute accepted by the government.
(Should prove with certificate).
Recruitment procedures :
(i) Suitable persons are selected by an interview.
(ii) Only eligible candidates are called for interviews.
Remark.– Priority would be given to those persons with a satisfactory service who are already serving in posts mentioned from
2 to 10 above under Substitute/Casual/Contract or Temporary basis in the Hambantota Municipal Council (Satisfactory service should be
proved with certificates).

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
631
General conditions of recruitment :
(i) Should be not less than 18 and more than 45 years of age by the date the applications are accepted.
(ii) Should be a Sri Lankan citizen.
(iii) Should be of excellent moral character and physically sound.
(iv) Should not have been penalized by a Court of law under Penal Code.
(v) Should establish the permanent residency of at least three years in the Hambantota Municipal Council area (when there are
no sufficient number of candidates who can establish their residency the attention will be drawn to candidates from the
nearest Local Government areas located in Hambantota District).
(vi) Municipal Commissioner of the Hambantota Municipal Council reserves the right to himself to delay making these
appointments or cancel or amend this notification during the period of calling application.
Term of Engagement :
(i) All posts from 2-10 are permanent and pensionable. All selected candidates should contribute to the Widows' and
Orphans' Pension Scheme.
(ii) This permanent post is subject to 3 year probation period.
(iii) In addition, all workers are bound to comply with the provisions of the Establishment Code, orders made by the Governor
General of the Southern Province, regulations imposed from time to time by the Public Service Commission of the
Southern Province and should comply with orders made by the Commissioner of Local Government and respective Heads
of Local Government Bodies.
Manner of sending applications.– Applications prepared in accordance with the specimen application provided in the notification
should be sent before 03rd May, 2013 by registered post to reach the Municipal Commissioner, Municipal Council, Hambantota. Top left
hand corner of the envelope containing these applications should be marked with the name of the post applied for (Those persons who are
already serving in Provincial Public Service should send their applications through their respective heads. All applications sh ould be
prepared on papers similar in size to A4 sheets). All incomplete, illegible and delayed applications will be rejected without prior notice.
(1) Certified copies of the following documents should be sent along with applications :–
(a) Birth certificate ;
(b) Result sheet ;
(c) Educational certificates ;
(d) Certificate to establish the residency (should be countersigned by the Divisional Secretary) ;
(e) Recently obtained Grama Niladhari Certificate ;
(f) Recently obtained 2 character certificates ;
(g) Certificates to prove other qualifications ;
(h) Service certificate ;
(i) Copy of the driving license in respect of the post "Driver".
Municipal Commissioner,
Hambantota Municipal Council,
Hambantota.
At the Municipal Council Office,
Hambantota.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
632
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
SOUTHERN PROVINCE PUBLIC SERVICE - HAMBANTOTA MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF ................................
01. ( a) Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(b) Names denoted by initails :–––––––––––.
02. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
03. ( a) District in which the person is residing permanently :–––––––––––.
(b) Divisional Secretary's Division in which the person is permanently residing :–––––––––––.
04. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
05. ( a) Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
(b) Age as at the date of applciations are accepted :–––––––––––.
06. Telephone Number :
(a) Mobile :–––––––––––.
(b) Residence :–––––––––––.
07. Sex :–––––––––––.
08. Civil status :–––––––––––.
09. ( a) Educational qualifications :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
(b) Particulars of highest Educational Qualifications achieved :–––––––––––.
10. ( a) Other Educational Qualifications :–––––––––––.
(b) V ocational qualifications :–––––––––––.
(c) Work experience :–––––––––––.
11. Drivers' service :
(a) Type of driving license :–––––––––––.
(b) Number of the driver license :–––––––––––.
(c) Date of issue of the driving license :–––––––––––.
12. If you are already serving in this Municipal Council :
(a) Current post :–––––––––––.
(b) Whether Permanent/Substitute/Casual/Temporary :–––––––––––.
(c) Date of appointment to that post :–––––––––––.
13. Have you ever been found guilty of any offence by a Court of Law, if so give details :–––––––––––.
14. I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my knowledg e. If these
particulars are found to be inaccurate before selection to the post, I am aware that I am liable to be disqualified and if such detection is
made after selection to the post I am aware that I will be dismissed from service without any compensation paid to me.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
633
Recommendation of the Head of the Institution if already occupied in the Public Service :
I hereby recommend the application of Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................................ serving in this Institution/Depart ment as
............................. and I further state that he/she has not been subjected to any inquiry on disciplinary ground (except admonishment).
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Official seal of the Department/Institution :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
04–393
–––––––––––––––––––––––
KURUNEGALA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Recruitments on Skilled, Semi skilled and Unskilled Category Posts
APPLICATIONS are called from permanent residents within the Kurunegala Pradeshiya Sabha limits, who have suitable qualifications as
under mentioned schedule for the recruitment of Vacant Posts at Kurunegala Pradeshiya Sabha.
Designation No. of Salary Scale Educational and other Qualifications
Vacant Posts
1. Unskilled Primary 07 (PA Circular No. 6/2006 IV)
Grade Employee PL-1-2006A Salary Code
Category - Class III Rs. 11,730 -10x120 -10x130 -
Health Labourer 10x145 - 12x160 - Rs. 17,600
2. Unskilled Primary 13 (PA Circular No. 6/2006 IV)
Grade Employee PL-1-2006A Salary Code
Category - Class III Rs. 11,730 -10x120 -10x130 -
Works Labourer 10x145 - 12x160 - Rs. 17,600
3. Unskilled Primary 01 (PA Circular No. 6/2006 IV)
Grade Employee PL-1-2006A Salary Code
Category - Class III Rs. 11,730 -10x120 -10x130 -
Watcher 10x145 - 12x160 - Rs. 17,600
4. Skilled Primary 02 (P A Circular No. 6/2006 IV)
Grade Employee PL-II-2006A Salary Code
Category - Class III Rs. 12,210 -10x130 -10x145 -
Electrician 10x160 - 12x170 - Rs. 18,600
(i) 08th standard should be passed (year 09) from
an approved Government School.
(ii) Existing Educational Qualifications according to
the recruitment procedure is relevant to the
employees personally to them who recruited for
primary unskilled Posts on Casual/Substitute/
Contract Basis.
(i) At least 02 subjects should be passed in G . C. E.
(O/L) exam (except viva subjects)
(ii) Existing educational qualifications according to
the recruitment procedure is relevant to the
employees personally to them who recruited for
primary unskilled Posts on Casual/Substitute/
contract Basis.
(i) At least 02 subjects should be passed in G . C. E.
(O/L) exam (except viva subjects)
(ii) Existing educational qualifications according to
the recrutiment procedure is relevant to the
employees personally to them who recruited for
primary unskilled Posts on Casual/Substitute/
Contract Basis.
(a) External Applicants :
At least 02 subjects should be passed in G . C. E.
(O/L) exam. (except viva subjects).

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
634
(a) Internal Applicants :
(i) Applicants who presently serves permanently
in the relevant Institution as an employee of
Provincial Council Pubilc Service should pass
08th standard (year 9) from an approved
Government School.
(ii) Existing educational qualifications according to
the recruitment procedure is relevant to the
employees personally to them who recruited for
primary semi skilled posts on Casual/Substitute/
Contract Basis.
(b) 08th standard should be passed (Year 09) from an
approved Government School for the applicants
those who presently serves at Kurunegala
pradeshiya Sabha in Permanent Post.
(c) A Training Certificate should be possessed from a
Government accepted Technical College or
V ocational Training Institute or from an accepted
Tertiary Institute for Electrical Technology.
Technique Skills :
Should possess a NVQ 4 level certificate related to the
post issued from the V ocational Training Authority.
Experience :
Should served in a Government Institution or any other
accepted Institution for at least 02 years or more
than that period in the relevant field. (It should be
confirmed by a certificate)
(i) At least 02 subjects should be passed in G. C. E.
(O/L) exam. (except viva subjects).
(ii) Existing educational qualifications according to
the recruitment procedure is relevant to the
employees personally to them who recruited for
primary unskilled Posts on Casual/Substitute/
Contract Basis.
(a) External Applicants :
At least 02 subjects should be passed in G. C. E.
(O/L) exam. (except viva subjects)
(b) 08th standard should be passed (Year 09) from
an approved Government School for the
applicants those who presently serves at
Kurunegala Pradeshiya Sabha in permanent post.
Existing educational.– Qualifications according to the
recruitment procedure is relevant to the
employees personally to them who recruited for
primary semi skilled Posts on Casual/Substitute/
Contract Basis.
5. Unskilled Primary 01 (PA Circular No. 6/2006 IV)
Grade Employee PL-1-2006A Salary Code
Category - Class III Rs. 11,730 -10x120 -10x130 -
Health Labour Overseer 10x145 - 12x160 - Rs. 17,600
6. Semi skilled Primary 01 (PA Circular No. 6/2006 IV)
Grade Employee PL-III-2006A Salary Code
Category - Class III Rs. 12,210 -10x130 -10x145 -
Works Overseer 10x160 - 12x170 - Rs. 18,600
Designation No. of Salary Scale Educational and other Qualifications
Vacant Posts

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
635
Technique Skills :
Should possess a NVQ 02 or 03 level certificate related
to the post issued from the Vocational Training
Authority.
Experience :
Should served in a Government Institution or any other
accepted Institution for at least 02 years or more
than that period in the relevant field. (It should be
confirmed by a certificate).
(i) At least 02 subjects should be passed in G . C. E.
(O/L) Exam. (Except viva subjects).
(ii) Existing educational qualifications according to
the recruitment procedure are relevant to the
employees personally to them who recruited for
primary unskilled posts on Casual/Substitute/
Contract Basis.
I. External Applicants :
(a) G. C. E. (O/L) Exam should be passed in 06
subjects with at least 02 credits not more than
two sittings. (except viva subjects). Minimally
05 subjects should be passed in one sitting.
(b) 08th standard should be passed (Year 09) from
an approved Government School for the
applicants those who presently serves at
Kurunegala Pradeshiya Sabha in permanent post.
II. Existing educational qualifications according to the
recruitment procedure is relevant to the
employees personally to them who recruited for
primary unskilled posts on Casual/Substitute/
Contract Basis.
Technique Skills :
A skilled certificate issued by the Commissioner of
Motor Traffic should be obtained for driving
Heavy Vehicles of 34hw of unlade weight, Weight
Trailers and Buses which could take more than
32 passengers. (Class A driving certificate).
III. Experience :
Should have 03 years experience as a driver. (Should be
confirmed by a Service Certificate).
Designation No. of Salary Scale Educational and other Qualifications
Vacant Posts
7. Unskilled Primary 02 (PA Circular No. 6/2006 IV)
Grade Employee PL-1-2006A Salary Code
Category - Class III Rs. 11,730 -10x120 -10x130 -
10x145 - 12x160 - Rs. 17,600
Karyala Karya Sahayaka
(K.K.S.)
8. Skilled Primary 04 (P A Circular No. 6/2006 IV)
Grade Employee PL-1-2006A Salary Code
Category - Class III Rs. 11,730 -10x120 -10x130 -
10x145 - 12x160 - Rs. 17,600
Driver

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
636
(i) Applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Applicants should be permanent residents of Kurunegala Pradeshiya Sabha limits. (Permanent residence for 03 years
should be confirmed and it should be certified by the relevant Grama Seva Niladhari (GSN) of the residential area with
countersigned certificate of the relevant Divisional Secretary).
(iii) Age limit should not be less than 18 years and not more than 45 years on the date of receiving applications. (Maximum age
limit is not applicable to the applicants who presently serve in a permanent post of Provincial Public Service).
Maximum age limit is not applicable for primary semi skilled/skilled/unskilled employees personally to them, who
recruited on Casual/Substitute/Contract basis on the time of implementation of this recruitment procedure.
(iv) Special attention is given for employees, those who presently serve at Kurunegala Pradeshiya Sabha on Temporary/
Casual/Substitute/Contract Basis.
(v) Applicants should be healthy and possessed a good moral character and should not be a person, of an offender from a
Court under Penal Code.
(vi) If presently an employee of Provincial Public Service and he should not be punished except an advice and all salary
increments should be earned for the previous 05 years up to closing date of receiving applications.
(vii) Educational qualifications existed in the Recruitment Procedure before the date of implementation of primary unskilled,
semi skilled and skilled recruitment procedure for Casual/Substitute/Contract employees is valid only personal basis to
them.
(viii) Qualified persons will be selected through a structural interview.
03. Terms of Engagement to the Service :
(i) This post is permanent and also pensionable.
(ii) Eligible to the Widow/Widowers and Orphans Pension Fund.
(iii) Appointment is under a Probation Period of three years.
(iv) In addition to terms and regulations of recruitment, all employees are liable to carry out regulations with accordance to the
Sri Lanka Democratic Establishment Code, Orders of Government Departments and Rules and Regulations which issued
on time to time by the North Western Provincial Council or North Western Provincial Public Service Commission.
04. Documents to be submitted with Applications.– Under mentioned copies of the certificates should be sent annexed with the
application and original copies should be submitted at the interview :
(i) Birth certificate,
(ii) Educational certificates,
(iii) Applicant's residential proof certificate of relevant Divisional Secretary,
(iv) Lately acquired two character certificates. (One should be Grama Seva Niladhari Certificates),
(v) Certificates related to experience and professional qualifications. (Applicants who serve in Public or Provincial Public
Service should send their applications through the Head of the institution).
Interview will be called only for the applicants who completed basic qualifications.
05. Method of Apply.– Applicants should send their applications prepared according to the model application as mentioned, on or
before 26.04.2013 by registered post to the "Secretary, Kurunegala Pradeshiya Sabha"  by stating the post of appointment on the upper left
corner of the envelope. Applications received after specified date will be rejected.
Whole authority is empowered to the Secretary, Kurunegala Pradeshiya Sabha to delay/change the recruitments or to cancel or
revise this notice, after calling applications or within the calling period.
D. D. W
ICKRAMASINGHE,
Secretary,
Kurunegala Pradeshiya Sabha,
Malpitiya, Boyagane.
Kurunegala Pradeshiya Sabha,
25th March, 2013.

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
637
MODEL APPLICATION
RECRUITMENT FOR PRIMARY SKILLED/UNSKILLED/SEMI SKILLED POST
 ........................................ - VACANT AT KURUNEGALA PRADESHIYA SABHA
01. Full name of the applicant :––––––––––––.
02. Name with initials :––––––––––––.
03. Permanent address :––––––––––––.
04. Permanent residing district :––––––––––––.
05. Date of birth :
Year :––––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––––.
06. Age at closing date of receiving applications :
Years :––––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––––,  Days :––––––––––––.
07. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
08. Civil status :––––––––––––.
09. Sex :––––––––––––.
10. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka ? If citizenship by descent or registration ? :––––––––––––.
11. Educational qualifications (Annex the photocopies of the certificates) :
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Index No. :––––––––––––. Year :––––––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass
G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Index No. :––––––––––––. Year :––––––––––––.
Subject Pass
12. (i) Other educational qualifications :––––––––––––.
(ii) Professional qualifications :––––––––––––.
(iii) Service experience :
(i) Presently serving Institute :––––––––––––.
(ii) Present Designation :––––––––––––.
(iii) Date of appointment for that post :––––––––––––.
(iv) Places served earlier and the designations :––––––––––––.
13. If ever convicted of any criminal offence in a Court of Law ? :––––––––––––.
I hereby certify that the particulars mentioned in this application by me are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. If it
is discovered that the above mentioned particulars are fraud before the recruitment, I know that I am not suitable for this pos t and if it is
discovered after the selection I will be dismissed without any compensation.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
638
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT FOR THE APPLICANTS WHO PRESENTLY
SERVES IN GOVERNMENT SERVICE
Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................................... is serving in this institute as ..................................... .. he/she could be/could not be
released from the service if selected for the Post. I hereby certify that he/she have not been charged except an advice for the previous 05 years
and I submit his/her application with my recommendation.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Institution.
Date :––––––––––––.
04–340
Local Government Notifications
PRADESHIYA  SABHA  OF  ANAMADUW A
Local Government (Standerd By-laws) Act
IT has been resolved by the Pradeshiya Sabha of Anamaduwa under Section 3(1) of the Local Government (Standard By-laws) at it's general
meeting held on 17th January 2013 that the By-laws of the Pradeshiya Sabha of Anamaduwa on unpleasant, dangerous and unpleasant and
dangerous trades, itinerant vendors, parking of vehicles within the Pradeshiya Sabha area, control of Mosquitoes and pests, decoration of
road within the Pradeshiya Sabha area and rest houses made by the minister in charge of Local Government in the North Western Provincial
in pursuance in to the authority vested in such ministry under Section of the Provincial Council (consequential provisions) Act , No. 6 of
1952 and published in Part IV(A) of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka of bearing No. 1,663 date 16th July 2010
and notified by the North Western Province Council and published in Part IV(A) in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka bearing No. 1,703/18 dated 28th April 2011 be implemented from the date on which this resolution is published in the Gazette.
H. M. UDARA MADUSANKA PERERA,
Chairman,
Anamaduwa Pradeshiya Sabha.
At Anamaduwa Pradeshiya Sabha,
On this 17th day of January.
04–333
By–Laws
BY-LAWS  RELATING  TO  ERADICATION  OF
MOSQUITOES  AND  DISEASE  INFLICTING  INSECTS
WITHIN  THE  MUNICIPAL  COUNCIL  AREA
THE draft By-laws set out below, frame by me as the Provincial
Minister in-Charge the subject to Local Government under Section
(2) of the Local Authorities (Standard By-laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952,
read with the Section (2) of the Provincial Councils (Consequential
Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, are hereby published.
Municipal Councils are empowered by paragraph (h) of Sub-
section (5) of Section 272 of the Municipal Councils Ordinance
(Chapter 252) read with the Section 267 of the said Ordinance to
make By-laws on Eradication of Mosquitoes and Disease Inflicting
Insects and the Municipal Councils of Southern Province are
empowered to adopt the By-laws in accordance with the provision
of Sub-section 3 of the Local Authority Standard By-laws Act, No.
6 of 1952.
Provincial Minister of Local Government
of the Southern Province.
21st day of May, 2012.
By-laws
1. These By-laws may be cited as the By-laws for the
improvement of the environmental conditions within the area of

<!-- page 15 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
639
Authority of Municipal Council by the prevention of mosquito
breeding and disease inflicting insect breeding and for the prevention
of epidemics within such area of authority.
2. No person shall do any act or cause any act to be done within
the area of authority of any Municipal Council which may cause
the breeding of or facilitating the breedding of mosquitoes or any
other disease inflicting insects.
3. It shall be the duty of every owner or occupier of any premises
whether resident or non resident, within the area of authority of a
Municipal Council to cause –
(a) open tins, bottles, boxes, plastic cans, tires, coconut
shells, split coconuts and any other article or receptacle
or vessel found within such premises to be removed or
destroyed ;
(b) gutters, down pipes and drains within such premises to
be cleared of any obstructions so as to ensure smooth
flow of water ;
(c) all water closets, tanks and other receptacles for water
to be maintained in good repair, closed and covered so as
to make it mosquito-proof and insect-proof and thereby
prevent the breeding of mosquitoes and disease inflicting
insects ;
(d) any well found in such premises to be maintain and kept
in good repair thereby prevent the breeding of mosquitoes
and disease inflicting insects ;
(e) any artificial pond or pool found in such premises to be
emptied and cleaned at least once in every week ;
(f) measures shall be taken to prevent water getting collected
in the drains found in such premises by allowing free
flow of water and with regular maintenance ;
(g) shrubs, undergrowth and all other types of vegetation
other than those grown for the purpose of food or for
ornamental purposes and found within a range of five
loss meters from any building within such premises
which is used as a dwelling place, to be removed in
entirety ;
(h) all quarries, abandoned gem pits, clay pits or any other
pits with in such premises and used for any other
purpose, to be maintained in a manner so as to prevent
water getting collected in them ;
(i) the removal and destruction of land grown ornamental
plants and aquatic plant commonly known as 'Diya
parandel', "Penda pasi". "Telpasi" or any other plants or
aquatic plants found within such premises which may
facilitate the breeding of mosquitoes and disease inflicting
insects and prevention of the floating of such plants
along any water course, by the erection of suitable
barriers ;
(j) any latrine, ditch, sewage, cess-pit or sealed pits found
in such premises and its surroundings to be maintained
and kept in good repair so as to make it mosquito proof
and prevent the breeding of mosquitoes ;
(k) take necessary measures to prevent water getting
collected in the monuments built in cemeteries or in any
other place within such area.
4. The Mayor of the Municipal Council or any officer authorized
in writing by him may, at any time of the day between 6 a. m. to 6
p. m. enter any premises within the area of authority of the
Municipal Council and inspect such premises to ensure the
following :-
(i) Whether such premises is a breeding place for
mosquitoes ;
(ii) Whether the occupier of such premises has complied
with the provisions of the By-laws ;
(iii) Where measures have to be taken to prevent the breeding
of and destory the mosquitoes, what such measures are
; and
(iv) Whether the spraying of insecticides in the premises
was a success.
5. (i) The Mayor or any officer authorized in writing for the
purpose by him may, after inspecting the premises, if
necessary, require the owner or occupier of such
premises by written notice, to adopt measures
necessary to destroy the mosquitoes and eradicate the
conditions favourable for the breeding of mosquitoes.
(ii) The owner or occupier of a premises to whom a written
notice was given under paragraph (i) shall, comply
with such notice within the period specified in such
notice.
6. (i) No person who is the owner or occupier of any
premises shall, without the written approval of the
Mayor, construct any well, bank, pond, water
receptacle, ornamental showers or any other structure
where water can get collected or stored.
(ii) Where any construction is done contrary to the
provisions of paragraph (I) of this By-law, the Mayor
shall, by a written notice served on the owner or
occupier of such premises, require him to fill up such
well, tank, pond, water receptacle, ornamental shower
or structure with specified material or destroy otherwise
or alter same in the manner specified in such notice
within the period specified in such notice.

<!-- page 16 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
640
7. (i) Any notice under By-law 5 or 6 may be either duly
served by delivering it personally to the owner or
occupier of the premises or by affixing such notice in a
conspicuous place in such premises.
(ii) Where, more than two co-owners are in joint possession
of any premsies and if notice specified in By-law 5 or
By-law 6 is duly served on one of them, all the co-
owners are jointly and severally liable for failing to
comply with the requirements of such notice or for
non-performance of the requirement of such notice.
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of any premises on whom
a written notice has been served under By-law 5 or
By-law 6, fails to comply with the requirements of
such written notice, the Mayor or any officer authorized
for the purpose by him in writing may, enter such
premises at any reasonable time of the day between 6
a. m. to 6 p. m. with any assistants or servants and
carry out or cause to be carried out the work or measures
specified in such notice.
(iv) Where any work or measures specified in a written
notice served on any owner or occupier of any premises
under By-law 5 or By-law 6 has been carried out by
the Mayor or any officer authorized by him in writing,
the expenses incurred in carrying out such work shall
be payable to the Municipal Council by such owner or
occupier of such premises. The owner or occupier of
the premises shall, within fourteen days from the date
of a request under the hand of the Mayor for the
payment of such expenses, to the Municipal Council
and if he fails to make such payment as requested the
provisions of the Part XV of the Municipal Councils
Ordinance shall be applicable.
8. Any person who contravenes of any provision of these By-
laws shall be guilty of an offense as per the Municipal Councils
Ordinance.
9. Unless the context otherwise requires, in these By-laws –
"Authorized Officer" shall mean any officer in a Municipal
Council authorized in writing by the Mayor of such
Municipal Council ;
"Mayor" shall mean the Mayor of the Municipal Council ;
"Disease Inflicting Insects" shall mean mosquitoes and other
insects which carries diseases ;
"Occupier" shall mean a person in occupation of any premises
or having the charge, management or control thereof,
whether on his own account or as an agent of any other ;
"Owner" shall mean any owner or lessee of a premises or
any person who has any right to the rent or produce of
the premises ;
"Premises" shall mean, any land, house, building or any
construction or any well, being used or abandoned or any
abandoned ship, container or vehicle and also includes
any pond, tank or any bank of any lake, water course,
drain or river.
04-88/1
––––––––––––––––––
THE  STANDARD  BY-LAWS ON  SOLID  WASTE
MANAGEMENT
Proposed by Ministry of Local Government and
Provincial Councils
THE draft By-laws set out below, framed by me as the Provincial
Minister in-Charge the subject of Local Government under Section
2 of the Local Authorities (Standard By-laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952,
read with the Section 2 of the Provincial Council (Consequential
Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, are hereby published.
Municipal Councils are empowered by paragraph ( b) of Sub-
section (5) of Section 272 and Section 129 of the Municipal Councils
Ordinance (Chapter 252) read with the Section 267 of the said
Ordinance, to make By-laws on Solid Waste Management and the
Municipal Council of Southern Province are empowered to adopt
the By-laws in accordance with the provisions of Sub-section 3 of
the Local Authorities Standard By-laws Act, No. 6 of 1952.
Provincial Minister of Local Government
of the Southern Province.
21st day of May, 2012.
GENERAL
1. These By-laws are cited as By-laws relating to solid waste
management.
2. These By-laws are enacted for the regulation, supervision,
inspection and control of segregation, storage, collection,
transportation, operation and maintenance of transfer stations,
processing, treatment and disposal of "solid waste" generated in
public places, private premises, at streets, thoroughfares within
Municipal limits and all other incidential activities thereto.
3. Every owner or occupier of any premises situated within the
Council area shall keep the premises free of waste and in a healthy
and pleasant condition.
4. The owner or occupier of any premises situated within the
area of the Council shall collect, segregate, store, transport and
remove the solid waste generated within the premises or cause to
do so accordance with the provisions of these By-laws.

<!-- page 17 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
641
5. (i) Every owner or occupier of a premises shall collect
solid waste generated within his own premises daily or
in lesser intervals if required, by sweeping or using any
other method.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall segregate or cause to be
segregated the waste collected in accordance with the
preceding sub-section of this By-law in accordance with
the provisions of By-laws No. 8 to 20.
(iii) Any bag, sack, bin or other receptacle used by the owner
or occupier for the storage or discharge of waste put out
for collection under the provisions of By-laws 8 to 20
shall be maintained in good condition and not put out
for collection, if they are torn, punctured, broken or
softened by prolonged exposure to moisture or if for
any other reason, they are likely to collapse or split
when reasonably handled. Council may provide such
receptacles if they so wish subsidizing the cost in part
or in full according to a decision made by the Council.
(iv) The owner or occupier shall dispose any waste collected
in the manner provided in sub-section (i) and in
accordance with the collection system and the time
schedule, operated in a Council area, as determined and
publicly notified from time to time by the Council.
(v) The owner or occupier shall not collect, store or dispose
of waste materials that are detrimental injurious or to
health of occupants, visitors or neighbours or to the
sanitary conditions in that area.
6. (i) No person shall discharge waste to a street, road,
thoroughfare, lane, avenue or any other public place or
premises or a drain or a waterway, water reservoir or
the sea.
(ii) No person shall burn waste by damaging the
environment in an open space within the Municipal
area.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier fails to obtain permission
in terms of the provisions of By-law No. 7 to discharge,
treat, process or dispose of any type of waste, he may
hand over such waste to an authorized collector.
(iv) Waste not processed, treated or disposed of under the
provisions of By-law No. 7 or any type of waste not
collected by an authorized collector under the provisions
of (iii) above shall be removed in accordance with the
provisions of By-law Nos. 8 to 20.
7. (i) The owner or occupier of any premises may dispose
the waste within such premises except –
(a) in areas where disposal of such waste is prohibited
by the Council ; or
(b) certain types of waste specificed by the Council.
(ii) The owner or occupier of any premises may burn waste
in an incinerator or burner in such premises constructed
in accordance with a plan and standard approved by the
Commissioner or treat, process or bury waste in the
manner approved by the Commissioner.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier makes a request to the
Commissioner for "compost barrel" the Commissioner
may supply such equipment subsidizing the cost in
part or in full provided the owner or occupier has
sufficient space in the premises to maintain the
equipment.
(iv) The owner or occupier of any premises shall process or
treat the garden waste collected within that premises in
a manner approved by the Commissioner as far as
practicable. Such owner or occupier shall hand over to
Municipal waste collector any residual garden waste on
payment of a fee specified as determined by the Council
from time to time taking into consideration the nature
of the disposal waste, to the Commissioner.
(v) Any person who cuts any part of a tree or plant by the
road side of a street, thoroughfare shall remove them or
cause them to be removed forthwith.
(vi) Every person shall take steps to prevent any animal
under his control to pass excreta in a street, thoroughfare
or in a public place. If excreta are passed, that person
shall be responsible for cleaning up the excreta and
disposing of it in accordance with By-law Nos. 8 to 20.
(vii) No person shall discharge or deposit any types of waste
from a vehicle to a street, road, thoroughfare or public
place within the Municipal area.
(viii) Any applicant for construction or renovation of a house
or any other premises shall include in his application
details of solid waste generated in his premises and the
manner of storing, treating or processing of discharged
material.
RESIDENTIAL PREMISES
8. (i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall segregate the
wastes collected by sweeping or by any other method
as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Animal carcasses, body parts or dung,
(e) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.

<!-- page 18 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
642
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall put the segregated waste
into separate bags, bins or other receptacles and place
them in an area reserved for this purpose until removal.
Food waste and other bio-degradable waste shall be
kept in a receptacle made of an impermeable material
which will be properly closed preventing the entry of
rats, insects and animals. Waste of animal carcasses,
body parts or dung shall be handed over to a municipal
waste collector without delay following the payment
of a fee to the Commissioner as determined by the
Council from time to time for the Municipal area taking
into consideration the nature of the disposable waste.
(iii) Every occupier may handover to an authorized collector,
types of waste specified in item (a) and (b) of paragraph
(i). If the occupier fails to do so, he shall together with
the type of waste specified in item ( c) hand over to a
Municipal waste collector or deposit in bins constructed
for each waste type by the Council or in bins or other
receptacles provided by the Council for such wastes.
9. (i) Every owner or occupier of each residence in a multi-
storied building with a number of tenements, shall
segregate their waste as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Animal carcasses, body parts or dung,
(e) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) The owner or occupier of a building specified in
paragraph (i) shall provide three types of bins or
receptacles in accordance with standards and
specifications approved by the Commissioner and shall
maintain them in a clean and sanitary condition.
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of a building specified in
sub-section (i) fails to comply with the provisions of
sub-section (ii), the Commissioner has the power to
require the owner or occupier of that building, to provide
such bins or receptacles on or before a notified date by
the Commissioner and it is the duty of the owner or
occupier to act in accordance with the requirements of
the Commissioner.
(iv) Every owner or occupier of a floor or a storey shall put
segregated waste in to the appropriate bin or receptacle.
(v) It shall be the duty of an authorized collector to remove
types of waste spcified in items ( a) and ( b) of sub-
section (i) of this By-law. Any such waste not removed,
together with types of waste of type (e) shall be handed
over to a Municipal waste collector.
10. (i) It is lawful for the Commissioner to provide waste bins
or receptacles for the use of shantydwellers, after
obtaining prior approval of the Council.
(ii) The owner or occupier of every shanty shall put all
collected waste from his place of residence, segregated
as follows, into the nearest approved bins or receptacles
supplied to his place of residence –
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(iii) The Commissioner has the power to permit a waste
collector to remove types of waste specified in items
(a) and (b) of sub-section (ii) of this By-law. Any such
waste not removed, together with types of waste of
type (c) and ( d) shall be handed over to a Municipal
waste collector.
SHOPS  AND  OFFICES
11. (i) Every owner or occupier of a shop or office shall
segregate waste colected in each complex as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Segregated waste shall be put into separate bins or
receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iii) The owner or occupier of a shop or an office may hand
over types of waste specified in items ( a) and ( b) of
sub-section (i) of this By-law to an authorized waste
collector.
(iv) The owner or occupier of a shopping or an office
complex with several storey and floors shall provide
the required number of waste bins or receptacles for
each shop or office in accordance with the standards
approved by the Commissioner for depositing or
collecting segregated waste from such shop or office.
(v) Any owner or occupier of a shop or office specified in
sub-section (iv) of this By-law shall put segregated
waste into separate bins or receptacles. Every owner or
occupier has the right to hand over to an authorized
waste collector, types of waste specified in items ( a)
and (b) in sub-section (i) of this By-law.
(vi) Types of waste specified in item (i) and any types of
waste specified in terms (a) and (b) of sub-section (i) of

<!-- page 19 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
643
this By-law, that are not collected by an authroized
collector shall be handed over by the owner or occupier
as the case may to a Municipal waste collector, following
the payment of a fee to the Commissioner by the owner
or occupier as the case may be as determined by the
Council from time to time.
(vii) It is the responsibility of each owner or occupier of any
shop or office to remove waste and maintain waste bins
or receptacles specified in this By-law so as not to
cause any health hazard or sanitation problem to
neighbors or persons engaged in services in such shop
or office.
(viii) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires –
"Occupier" means the owner of a shop, or occupier or
caretaker of a business or an office ;
"Office" has the same meaning given in the Shops and
Office Employees Act, No. 19 of 1954 (Chapter 129),
"Shop" means a place where goods are kept for wholesale
or retail and includes a place where food or beverages
are kept for sale and a place where a barber shop or
beauty salon is operated.
HOTELS
12. (i) Any hotelier or any person authorized by him in writing
shall segregate waste collected at the premises or cause
it to be segregated as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him in
writing shall put in suitable bins or receptacles the
segregated waste and store in a suitable place until
removal from the allotted space.
(iii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him in
writing shall pack in a bin or other receptacle made of
plastic or metal properly secured with a lid, all food
waste and bio-degradable waste preventing the entry of
flies, rats, insects or any other animal.
(iv) Types of waste specified in items ( a) and ( b) in sub-
section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to
authorized collector.
(v) Any such waste not handed over under sub-section (iv)
of this By-law and types of waste specified in item (i)
shall be handed over to a Municipal waste collector on
payment of a fee by the owner or occupier to the
Commissioner as determined by the Council from time
to time taking into consideration the nature of the waste.
(vi) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires, "Hotel" means a place with or
without sleeping facilities where food or beverages or
liquor are supplied for consumption on payment of
money and it includes a restaurant, guest house, lodging
house, rest house, pilgrim's rest, rice and curry boutique,
cafeteria and any other premises in which a business is
carried out in a similar manner to a hotel.
VEGETABLE AND FRUIT STORES
13. (i) The owner or person in charge of every vegetable or
fruit store shall segregate the waste collected within his
own premises as follows :-
(a) Vegetable, fruit or any other waste not suitable for
human consumption,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Types of waste specified in item ( a) of sub-section (i)
of this By-law shall be kept in a separate receptacle
made of impermeable plastic or metal and shall be secured
properly, preventing the entry of  flies, rats, insects or
any other animals. Other waste shall be put into any
suitable bin or other receptacle.
(iii) Types of waste specified in iterms ( a), (b) and ( d) of
sub-section (i) of this By-law, may be handed over to
an authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over
together with types of waste specified in item ( c) and
(d) of sub-section (i) of this By-law shall be handed
over to Municipal waste collector, on payment of a fee
to the Commissioner, as determined by the Council
from time to time.
(iv) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires "Vegetable and fruit store" means a
place where vegetable and fruit are stored and kept or
exposed for sale.
MEAT, FISH, POULTRY AND EGG STALLS
14. (i) No person shall slaughter any animal or bird other than
those permitted under the provisions of the Butchers
Ordinance in terms of a license issued by the

<!-- page 20 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
644
Commissioner for that purpose, at the place specified
therein.
(ii) Every license issued under sub-section (i) of this by-
law shall specify the type of animals or birds that can
be slaughtered, the manner in which the slaughter house
shall be constructed and conditions relating to cleaning
and removal of blood, intestines and other parts not
taken for human consumption and other condition the
Council may think fit.
(iii) The Commissioner may charge a fee as determined by
the Council from time to time for the issue of a license
under sub-section (i) of this by-law payable at time of
issue.
(iv) The owner or person who carried out the business of a
stall for the sale of meat, fish or egg shall segregate their
waste as follows :-
(a) Carcasses or parts of carcasses or eggs not suitable
for human consumption,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(v) Segregated waste shall be placed in a separate bin or
other receptacle, types of waste specified in item (a) of
sub-section (iv) of this by-law shall be placed inside an
impermeable receptacle and shall be secured properly,
preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other
animals so as to prevent pollution.
(vi) Types of waste specified in items ( a), ( b) and ( d) of
sub-section (iv) of this by-law, may be handed over to
an authorized collector. Any such waste not handed
over, together with type of waste specified in item ( c)
of sub-section (iv) of this by-law, shall be handed over
to a Municipal waste collector, following the payment
of a fee as determined by the Council from time to time
before the spread of foul odor.
(vii) For the purpose of this by-law, unless the context
otherwise requires "meat, fish or egg stall" means a
place where such items are stored for purpose of sale or
kept or exposed for sale.
PAVEMENT  HAWKING
15. (i) A pavement hawker who carried out a business which
generates waste shall keep a bin or other receptacle for
such waste, in accordance with the standards to be
approved by the Commissioner. Any such waste shall
not be put on the pavement or highway or in a public
place.
(ii) No pavement hawker shall keep either a bin or other
receptacle in such a way as to obstruct movement of
vehicles or pedestrian.
(iii) Every pavement hawker shall segregate waste generated
by reason of his business as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste.
(iv) Segregated waste shall be put into a separate bin or
other receptacle. Types of waste specified in item ( a)
of sub-section (iii) of this by-law that may be eaten by
insects, rats or animals shall be placed inside a secured
receptacle, which shall be kept closed except when
required to place additional waste inside.
(v) Every pavement hawker shall be handed over daily such
types of waste as specified in items ( a) and (b) of sub-
section (iii) of this by-law to an authorized collector or
together with such types of waste as specified in item
(c) of sub-section (iii) of this by-law to a municipal
waste collector. Receptacles with waste shall not be
kept, on a pavement or roadside or highway, when the
business is not in operation.
(vi) Every pavement hawker shall pay a fee as determined
by the Council from time to time before waste bins or
other receptacles are handed over to a municipal waste
collector.
(vii) For the purpose of this by-law, unless the context
otherwise requires, "Pavement hawker" means a person
who sells goods or provides a service on the pavement
or roadside.
FACTORIES
16. (i) Every owner of a factory or a manufacturer shall collect
waste generated by such factory within the factory
premises and segregate them as follows :-
(a) Bio-degradable waste,
(
b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Types of waste specified in items ( a) and ( b) of sub-
section (i) of this by-law may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over,
shall be handed over to a municipal waste collector, on
a payment of a fee as determined by the Council from
time to time, to the Commissioner.

<!-- page 21 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
645
(iii) Hazardous waste shall be removed according to the
conditions set out in the Environmental Protection
License issued under the National Environmental Act,
No. 47 of 1980, for that business.
(iv) For the purpose of this by-law, unless the context
otherwise requires, "Factory" has the same meaning as
in the Factories Ordinance No. 45 of 1942 (Chapter
128).
EXCA V ATION, CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION
17. (i) Every person who excavates any street road or any
public place or constructs or demolishes, any structure
shall store such waste so generated within the premises
or in a place approved by the Commissioner until
removal of such waste from such premises in an
appropriate manner.
(ii) The waste referred to in sub-section (i) of this by-law
shall be handed over to a municipal waste collector on a
payment of a fee to the Commissioner as determined
by the Council from time to time.
(iii) In this by-law, unless the context otherwise requires –
"For the purpose of this by-law, every person engaged in
an act of excavation, construction or demolition"
includes any person engaged for such service by an
employer.
"Waste" includes earth, mud, dust, waste generated in
construction from the use of building materials and
waste generated during demolition of any construction.
18. (i) Any person who excavates any street, road or any public
place for the purpose of providing gas, electricity, water,
telephone facilities or any other public amenities shall
obtain prior approval from the Commissioner.
(ii) The Commissioner shall take into consideration the
arrangements made by the applicant for the removal of
waste, the quantity of waste that may be kept
temporarily on the road or in a public place after
completion of the proposed job and the cost of removal
of such waste, if the applicant neglects to do so prior to
giving approval under sub-section (i) the applicant shall
be required to pay a amount equivalent to the estimated
cost as a deposit before approval is granted.
(iii) Where a person fails or neglects to remove the entire
quantity of waste or a part thereof, such quantity of
waste shall be removed in a manner to be decided by the
Commissioner and the resulting expenditure incurred
may be set off from the moneys deposited under sub-
section (ii).
HOSPITALS
19. (i) The owner of a hospital shall segregate or cause to be
segregated waste generated within the premises as
follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste, excluding type of waste item ( d)
in this sub-section,
(d) Hazardous healthcare waste,
(e) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Types of waste specified in items ( a) and ( b) under
sub-section (i) shall be deposited in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal. Types of
waste specified in items ( c) and ( d) of sub-section (i)
shall be deposited in a bins or any other receptacles
specially made for that purpose and kept in a place set
apart for that purpose and shall be removed in
accordance with the conditions set out in the
Environment Protection License issued to that hospital
under the National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) and (e) of
sub-section (i) shall be handed over to an authorized
collector or to the Municipal waste collector, following
the payment of a fee as determined by the Council from
time to time.
(iv) In this by-law, unless the context otherwise requires –
"Hospital" means any premises (howsoever described)
used or intended to be used for the reception, nursing
and treatment of persons or animals suffering from
any illness or infirmity and includes a nursing home,
clinic, medical centre, medical laboratory, maternity
home and veterinary hospital,
"Hazardous health care waste" means clinical waste, body
parts, placentas, infectious and highly infectious waste
and sharps.
OTHER PREMISES
20. (i) Any person who carries out a business not specified in
by-laws Nos. 8 to 19 or any person who organizes and
operates with the participation of the public, a religious,
social, cultural or educational activity or due to
maintenance of such an establishment as follows ;-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.

<!-- page 22 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
646
(ii) Any organizer of any activity specified in sub-section
(i) shall inform the Council in advance, so that special
arrangements may be made to collect the waste from
such activity. In such cases, waste collection may be
subject to a fee as determined by the Council from time
to time.
(iii) Segregated waste shall be packed in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iv) Types of waste specified in items ( a), ( b) and ( d) of
sub-section (i) of this by-law shall be handed over to an
authorized collector or to a municipal waste collector,
along with the type of waste specified in item ( c) of
sub-section (i), on payment of a fee as determined by
the Council from time to time.
STREETS AND PUBLIC PLACES
21. (i) The Commissioner in consultation with the Mayor and
subject to the approval of the Council shall take steps
to plan, supervise, control and administer the following :
(a) To maintain in a clean and sanitary condition, the
streets, public places, thoroughfares, public drains,
watercourses and public markets situated within
the Municipal area.
(b) To provide, fix and properly maintain a sufficient
number of waste bins on both sides of the streets or
roads and in all public places.
(c) To provide mobile waste bins for use in a public
places, at festivals, special events or any other event
as determined by the Council where the Council
decides to do so or following a request from the
organizers of such festival on special events.
(d) To maintain in a sanitary condition, public, waste
bins or receptacles installed in residential areas and
remove the waste deposited therein before it
becomes a nuisance to nearby residents.
(e) To investigate any complaint received in respect of
the activities specified in the preceding sections
and take action forthwith.
(ii) No person shall deposit household, commercial,
institutional, industrial or other waste in any waste bin
provided by the Council specifically for litter.
DUTIES OF THE MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
22. (i) The Commissioner in consultation with the Mayor and
subject to the approval of the Council shall plan,
supervise, control and administer following :-
(a) To encorage people to reduce, reuse and recycle waste,
(b) To conduct awareness programs or propaganda through
media in relation to segregation, collection, storage,
discharge and disposal of waste,
(c) To assist individuals and micro-enterprises engaged in
reuse and recycling activities,
(d) To offer incentives to those involved in the reduction,
reuse and recycle activities,
(e) To regulate different types of waste discharge system,
(f) To prepare a waste collection schedule, setting out
collection days, times, methods and fees as determined
by the Council for different types of waste in different
areas of the Municipality. This schedule shall be publicly
notified by the Council. It may include conditions for
collection on public holidays,
(g) To collect any segregated waste, not hand over to
authorized collectors separately, on time and according
to schedule,
(h) To transport, in a sanitary manner, hazardous waste
and any other waste, that has not been handed over to
authorized collectors,
(i) To hand over to an authorized collector waste collected
from street sweeping, cleaning the drains and the cleaning
the public places and waste collected from public bins
and waste collected by Council labourers, except for
hazardous waste or other types of waste specified by
the Commissioner,
(j) To take appropriate measures to deal with segregated
waste collected by Municipal waste collectors, including
arrangement for the processing and treatment of part or
all food and other bio-degradable, reusable and recyclable
waste as much as practicable and to dispose of the
rejects from such operations and other residual waste
of these types in a manner, approved by the
Commissioner,
(k) To dispose of all hazardous waste in a manner approved
by the Commissioner, in consultation with the Central
Environmental Authority,
(l) To obtain a license or environmental protection license
in accordance with the provisions of the National
Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 and subject to the
conditions specified in the license or environmental
protection license to burn waste or to maintain a sanitary
landfill.
(m) To provide appropriate clothing, hand gloves, mouth
covers and boots to every employee engaged in
sweeping, collection, segregation, transportation,
transfer and disposal of waste,

<!-- page 23 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
647
(n) To check and approved details of the manner of disposal
of solid waste generated on construction or renovation
and the manner of storage, process and disposal of rubble
at the initials stage and on the completion of the specified
works where an application is submitted to the Council
for the construction or renovation of a house or other
premises,
(o) To prepare an internal Waste Management Plan for all
council premises,
(p) To prepare and implement a Solid Waste Management
Action Plan in accordance with the National Strategy of
Solid Waste Management and relevant legislation which
covers at least each calendar year in detail and three
years ahead for final disposal and such plan shall be
approved annually on a less frequent basis by the
Council, according to the period it covers.
(q) To investigate any complaint received by the Mayor
and the Commissioner regarding the activities referred
to in items (a) to (p) within three days for any possible
nuisance and within fourteen days for any other
complaint and take action forthwith.
PERMITS
23. (i) The Council may issue a permit to any person who re-
uses or recycles waste material or manufactures
compost, bio-gas or any other product where any
person –
(a) Carries out any business within the Municipal area
or in any other Local Authority area, in terms of the
By-laws as approved by the Council,
(b) Possesses an Environmental Protection License,
issued in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980,
(c) Storage place for collected waste constructed in
accordance with the standards approved by the
Council,
(d) Provides vehicles for transportation of collected
waste in a sanitary manner as approved by the
Council and without causing nuisance to people,
(e) Agrees to hand over to residual or reject waste or
any other waste created as by-products during
processing or treatment, to the Council as approved
by the Council on payment of a fee the
Commissioner for collection of such waste as
determined by the Council from time to time, where
the business is carried out within the Municipal
Council Limits.
(ii) Where the Council refuses or rejects to issue a permit,
the applicant shall be informed in writing of the reasons
for such refusal or rejection within thirty days of receipt
of the application for the permit.
(iii) The Commissioner shall indicate in the permit, the
period of validity, the type or types of waste permitted
to be collected, the permitted area for collection of such
waste and any other appropriate conditions.
(iv) The Commissioner shall revoke the permit issued under
this by-law in the event of non-compliance of the
provisions of Sub-section (i) of this By-law.
(v) No person shall collect or receive waste when a permit
is revoked under the provision of Sub-section (iv). In
such event the Commissioner shall give sufficient
publicity through media in order to bring awareness to
the people of the revocation of such permit.
WASTE  DISPOSAL  AREAS
24. No Unauthorized person shall enter loiter, deposit, disturb
or remove any article, material or refuse from a waste disposal area
reserved by the Council for that purpose no deposit any prohibited
refuse which the Council from time to time may stipulate unless
authorized by the Council subject to certain specified conditions.
25. No person shall provides, operate or use any land or facility
for the deposit of waste originating from a place outside the land or
facility within the Municipal Council limits except with the prior
written approval of the Council and the Central Environmental
Authority subject to any conditions of approval.
OTHER
26. (i) The Commissioner or any person authorized by him in
writing shall have the power, at all reasonable times to
enter any premises and inspect as to whether the owner
or occupier acts in conformity with the provisions of
these By-laws.
(ii) The owner, occupier, caretaker, manager or any person
residing or serving in that premises shall furnish the
information required by the Commissioner or any
authorized officer.
(iii) No person shall obstruct the Commissioner or an
authorized officer or assistant authorized officer in the
exercise of his powers under these By-laws.
27. Any authorized officer or any assistant authorized officer
who implements and enforce these By-laws may be offered
incentives according to the decisions made by the Council from
time to time.

<!-- page 24 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
648
28. Any person who contravenes of any provision of these By-
laws shall be guilty of an offence as per Municipal Council Ordinance.
INTERPRETATION
29. For the purpose of these By-laws, unless context otherwise
requires –
"Authorized Collector" means a person who obtains a permit
from the Commissioner to collect or receive waste under
the provision of these By-laws.
"Authorized Officer" means any person who has been
authorized in writing by the Commissioner to execute or
carry out such duties under these By-laws.
"Bin or other receptacles" means any bin, sack, bag or other
container used for waste storage, discharge, collection or
transportation that complies with the requirement set
out in these By-laws.
"Bio-degradable waste" means waste that may be degraded
or decomposed by micro-organisms.
"Collection" means the receipt of waste by an authorized
collector or Municipal waste collector for transportation
for refusing, recycling, processing, treatment or disposal
facilities.
"Commissioner" means in relation to any Municipality,
means the Municipal Commissioner of the Municipal
Council constituted under the Municipal Council
Ordinance (Chapter 252) for that Municipality and
includes any Deputy or Assistant Municipal
Commissioner of such Council and any person appointed
to act as such Municipal Commissioner or such Deputy
or Assistant Municipal Commissioner or any officer of
such Council empowered by or under this Ordinance, to
exercise, perform or discharge any of the powers, duties
or functions of the Commissioner to the extent to which
such officer is so empowered.
"Compost" means the final product of the bio-degradation
of waste by micro organism and it is a humus that could
be functioned as soil conditioner.
"Council" means ............... Municipal Council.
"Council Area" or "Municipal area" means the area declared
under the authority of the Municipal Council Ordinance
(Chapter 252).
"Discharge" means where part or all of the waste produced
by a person or premises and put out for collection either
within or outside their premises or given to authorized
collectors or Municipal waste collectors,
"Disposal" means the placement of all waste that is neither
re-used, recycled, processed or treated, on or in land where
it is intended to stay permanently,
"Fee" means some fee determined by the Council from time
to time.
"Food Waste" means all meat, fish, eggs, vegetables, fruits
and other edible materials that cannot be used for
consumption,
"Garden Waste" means parts removed from trees or plants in
a home garden or stones, soil etc. removed from a home
garden.
"Hazardous Waste" means waste that is poisonous, corrosive,
combustible, reactive, radioactive or infectious in nature.
"Municipal waste collector" means an employee engaged by
the Council for sweeping, collection, receipt or removal
of waste from bins or receptacles or a person who has
entered into a contract with the Council to perform such
duties.
"Owner or occupier" includes the owner of the premises or
any person who holds power of attorney on behalf of the
owner or an agent or caretaker appointed to manage the
industry, factory, estate by the owner or recipient of rent
and does not include a manager who acts under the order
of another person.
"Public place" means a road, ground, public land, road
reservation, playground, public building, cemetery, bus
stand, railway station, river, canal, stream, lake, reservoir,
pond, pool, lagoon, tributary, waterway, sea, beach or
any other places commonly used by the public.
"Recyclable waste" means by waste that can be used to
produce new goods by changing their form in the process
so that they are no longer recognizable as waste.
"Reusable Waste" means waste that can be utilized after
washing, disinfection or cleaning by other means.
"Sanitary landfill" means the final disposal of waste in a
ground in accordance with the accepted standards in Sri
Lanka to minimize the associated social, health and
environmental impacts.
"Segregation" means separating waste into different types
according to the categories used in these By-laws.
"Solid waste" means substances which have no consumer
value to person who abandoned them and includes
rubbish, garbage, litter, street sweepings, drain cleanings,
dust, soil, mud and ash.

<!-- page 25 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
649
"Storage" means keeping waste within the premises of an
owner or occupier or placing it at an approved public
collection point.
"Transfer station" means any place specified by the Council
for this purpose where waste is transferred from smaller
to larger vehicles for the purposes of improving the
transportation efficiency of the waste from the transfer
station to any recycling, processing, treatment or disposal
facility.
"Transport" means transporting waste from the collection
point to processing, treatment or disposal facilities using
sum form of human or animal or mechanically powered
vehicle.
"Treat" means taking any steps or processes to reduce the
potential harm or damage they may cause to people or
the environment.
04–88/2
–––––––––––––––
2. No person shall do any act or cause any act to be done within
the area of authority of any Urban Council which may cause the
breeding of or facilitating the breeding of mosquitoes or any other
disease inflicting insects.
3. It shall be the duty of every owner or occupier of any premises
whether resident or non resident, within the area of authority of a
Urban Council to cause –
(a) Open tins, bottles, boxes, plastic cans, tyres, coconut
shells, split coconuts and any other article or receptacle or
vessel found within such premises to be removed or
destroyed ;
(b) Gutters, down pipes and drains within such premises to
be cleared of any obstructions so as to ensure smooth
flow of water ;
(c) All water closets, tanks and other receptacles for water to
be maintained in good repair, closed and covered so as to
make it mosquitoe-proof and insect proof and thereby
prevent the breeding of mosquitoes and disease inflicting
insects ;
(d) Any well found in such premises to be maintain and kept
in good repair thereby prevent the breeding of mosquitoes
and disease inflicting insects ;
(e) Any artifical pond or pool found in such premises to be
emptied and cleaned at least once in every week ;
(f) Measures shall be taken to prevent water getting collected
in the drains found in such premises by allowing free flow
of water and with regular maintenance ;
(g) Shrubs, undergrowth and all other types of vegetation
other than those grown for the purpose of food or for
ornamental purposes and found within a range of five loss
meters from any building within such premises which is
used as a dwelling place, to be removed in entirety ;
(h) All quarries, abandoned gem pits, clay pits or any other
pits within such premises and used for any other purpose,
to be maintained in a manner so as to prevent water getting
collected in them ;
(i) The removal and destruction of land grown ornamental
plants and aquatic plant commonly known as 'Diya
parandel', "Penda pasi", Telpasi or any other plants or
aquatic plants found within such premises which may
facilitate the breeding of mosquitoes and disease inflicting
insects and prevention of the floating of such plants along
any water course, by the erection of suitable barriers ;
(j) Any latrine, ditch, swewage, cess-pit or sealed pits found
in such premises and its surroundings to be maintained
BY-LAWS  RELATING  TO  ERADICATION  OF
MOSQUITOES  AND  DISEASE  INFLICTING   INSECTS
WITHIN  THE  URBAN  COUNCIL  AREA
THE draft By-laws set out below, frame by me as the Provincial
Minister in-charge the subject to Local Government under Section
(2) of the Local Authorities (Standard By-laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952,
read with the Section (2) of the Provincial Councils (Consequential
provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, are hereby published.
Urban Councils are empowered by paragraphs ( b) and ( c) of
Sub-section (9) of Section 157 of the Urban Councils Ordinance
(Chapter 255) read with the Section 153 of the said ordinance to
make By-laws on eradication of mosquitoes and disease inflicting
insects and the Urban Councils of Southern Province are empowered
to adopt the By-laws in accordance with the provision of Sub-
section 3 of the Local Authority Standard By-laws Act, No. 6 of
1952.
Provincial Minister of Local Government
of the Southern Province.
21st day of May, 2012.
By-laws
1. These By-law may be cited as the By-laws for the
improvement of the environmental conditions within the area of
Authority of Urban Council by the prevention of mosquitoe breeding
and disease inflicting insect breeding and for the prevention of
epidemics within such area of authority.

<!-- page 26 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
650
and kept in good repair so as to make it mosquitoe proof
and prevent the breeding of mosquitoes ;
(k) Take necessary measures to prevent water getting collected
in the monuments built in cemeteries or in any other place
within such area.
4. The Chairman of the Urban Council or any officer authorized
in writing by him may, at any time of the day between 6 a. m. to
6 p. m. enter any premises within the area of authority of the Urban
Council and inspect such premises to ensure the following :-
(i) Whether such premises is a breeding place for
mosquitoes ;
(ii) Whether the occupier of such premises has complied
with the provisions of the By-laws ;
(iii) Where measures have to be taken to prevent the breeding
of and destory the mosquitoes, what such measures are
; and
(iv) Whether the spraying of insecticides in the premises
was a success.
5. (i) The Chairman or any office authorized in writing for
the purpose by him may, after inspecting the premises,
if necessary, require the owner or occupier of such
premises by written notice, to adopt measures necessary
to destroy the mosquitoes and eradicate the conditions
favourable for the breeding of mosquitoes.
(ii) The owner or occupier of a premises to whom a written
notice was given under paragraph (i) shall, comply with
such notice within the period specified in such notice.
6. (i) No person who is the owner or occupier of any premises
shall, without the written approval of the Chairman,
construct any well, bank, pond, water receptacle,
ornamental showers or any other structure where water
can get collected or stored ;
(ii) Where any construction is done contrary to the
provisions of paragraph (I) of this by-law, the Chairman
shall, by a written notice served on the owner or
occupier of such premises, require him to fill up such
well, tank, pond, water receptacle, ornamental shower
or structure with specified material or destroy otherwise
or alter same in the manner specified in such notice
within the period specified in such notice.
7. (i) Any notice under by-law 5 or 6 may be either duly
served by delivering it personally to the owner or
occupier of the premises or by affixing such notice in a
conspicuous place in such premises.
(ii) Where, more than two co-owners are in joint possession
of any premises and if notice specified in by-law 5 or
by-law 6 is duly served on one of them, all the
co-owners are jointly and severally liable for failing to
comply with the requirements of such notice or for
non-performance of the requirement of such notice.
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of any premises on whom
a written notice has been served under by-law 5 or by-
law 6, fails to comply with the requirements of such
written notice, the Chairman or any officer authorized
for the purpose by him in writing may, enter such
premises at any reasonable time of the day between 6
a. m. to 6 p. m. with any assistants or servants and
carry out or cause to be carried out the work or measures
specified in such notice.
(iv) Where any work or measures specified in a written
notice served on any owner or occupier of any premises
under by-law 5 or by-law 6 has been carried out by the
Chairman or any officer authorized by him in writing,
the expenses incurred in carrying out such work shall be
payable to the Urban Council by such owner or occupier
of such premises. The owner or occupier of the premises
shall, within fourteen days from the date of a request
under the hand of the Chairman for the payment of
such expenses, to the Urban Council and if he fails to
make such payment as requested the provisions of the
Part IX of the Urban Councils Ordinance shall be
applicable.
8. Any person who contravenes of any provision of these
by-laws shall be guilty of an offense as per the Urban Councils
Ordinance.
9. Unless the context otherwise requires, in these by-laws –
"Authorized Officer" shall mean any officer in a Urban
Council authorized in writing by the Chairman of such
Urban Council ;
"Chairman" shall mean the Chairman of the Urban Council ;
"Disease inflicting Insects" shall mean Mosquitoes and other
insects which carries diseases.
"Occupier" shall mean a person in occupation of any premises
or having the charge, management or control thereof,
whether on his own account or as an agent of any other ;
"Owner" shall mean any owner or lessee of a premises or
any person who has any right to the rent or produce of
the premises ;
"Premises" shall mean, any land, house, building or any
construction or any well, being used or abandoned or any
abandoned ship, container or vehicle and also includes
any pond, tank or any bank of any lake, water course,
drain or river.
04-88/3

<!-- page 27 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
651
THE  STANDARD  BY-LAWS  ON  SOLID
WASTE  MANAGEMENT
Proposed by Ministry of Local Government and
Provincial Councils
THE draft By-laws set out below, framed by me as the Provincial
Minister in-charge the subject of Local Government under Section
2 of the Local Authorities (Standard By-laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952,
read with the Section 2 of the Provincial Council (Consequential
Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, are hereby published.
Urban Councils are empowered by paragraph ( b) and ( c) of
Sub-section (9) of Section 157 and Section 118 of the Urban Councils
Ordinance (Chapter 255) read with the Section 153 of the said
Ordinance, to make By-laws on Solid Waste Management and the
Urban Council of Southern Province are empowered to adopt the
By-laws in accordance with the provisions of Sub-section 3 of the
Local Authorities Standard By-laws Act, No. 6 of 1952.
Provincial Minister of Local Government
of the Southern Province.
21st day of May, 2012.
GENERAL
1. These by-laws are cited as by-laws relating to solid waste
management.
2. These by-laws are enacted for the regulation, supervision,
inspection and control of segregation, storage, collection,
transportation, operation and maintenance of transfer stations,
processing, treatment and disposal of "solid waste" generated in
public places, private premises, at streets, thoroughfares within
Urban Council limits and all other incidential activities thereto.
3. Every owner or occupier of any premises situated within the
Council area shall keep the premises free of waste and in a healthy
and pleasant condition.
4. The owner or occupier of any premise situated within the
area of the Council shall collect, segregate, store, transport and
remove the solid waste generated within the premises or cause to
do so accordance with the provisions of these by-laws.
5. (i) Every owner or occupier of a premises shall collect
solid waste generated within his own premises daily or
in lesser intervals if required, by sweeping or using any
other method.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall segregate or cause to be
segregated the waste collected in accordance with the
preceding sub-section of this by-law in accordance with
the provisions of by-laws No. 8 to 20.
(iii) Any bag, sack, bin or other receptacle used by the owner
or occupier for the storage or discharge of waste put out
for collection under the provisions of by-laws 8 to 20
shall be maintained in good condition and not put out
for collection, if they are torn, punctured, broken or
softened by prolonged exposure to moisture or if for
any other reason, they are likely to collapse or split
when reasonably handled. Council may provide such
receptacles if they so wish subsidizing the cost in part
or in full according to a decision made by the Council.
(iv) The owner or occupier shall dispose any waste collected
in the manner provided in sub-section (i) and in
accordance with the collection system and the time
Schedule, operated in a Council area, as determined and
publicly notified from time to time by the Council.
(v) The owner or occupier shall not collect, store or dispose
of waste materials that are detrimental injurious or to
health of occupants, visitors or neighbours or to the
sanitary conditions in that area.
6. (i) No person shall discharge waste to a street, road,
thoroughfare, lane, avenue or any other public place or
premises or a drain or a waterway, water reservoir or
the sea.
(ii) No person shall burn waste by damaging the
environment in an open space within the Municipal
area.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier fails to obtain permission
in terms of the provisions of by-law No. 7 to discharge,
treat, process or dispose of any type of waste, he may
hand over such waste to an authorized collector.
(iv) Waste not processed, treated or disposed of under the
provisions of by-law No. 7 or any type of waste not
collected by an authorized collector under the provisions
of (iii) above shall be removed in accordance with the
provisions of by-law Nos. 8 to 20.
7. (i) The owner or occupier of any premises may dispose
the waste within such premises except –
(a) In areas where disposal of such waste is prohibited
by the Council ; or
(b) Certain types of waste specificed by the Council.
(ii) The owner or occupier of any premises may burn waste
in an incinerator or burner in such premises constructed
in accordance with a plan and standard approved by the
Secretary, or treat, process or bury waste in the manner
approved by the Secretary.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier makes a request to the
Secretary for "compost barrel" the Secretary may supply

<!-- page 28 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
652
such equipments subsidizing the cost in part or in full
provided the owner or occupier has sufficient space in
the premises to maintain the equipment.
(iv) The owner or occupier of any premises shall process or
treat the garden waste collected within that premises in
a manner approved by the Secertary as far as practicable.
Such owner or occupier shall hand over to Urban Council
waste collector any residual garden waste on payment
of a fee specified as determined by the Council from
time to time taking into consideration the nature of the
disposal waste, to the Secretary.
(v) Any person who cuts any part of a tree or plant by the
road side of a street, thoroughfare shall remove them or
cause them to be removed forthwith.
(vi) Every person shall take stops to prevent any animal
under his control to pass excreta in a street, thoroughfare
or in a public place. If excreta are passed, that person
shall be responsible for cleaning up the excreta and
disposing of it in accordance with by-law Nos. 8 to 20.
(vii) No person shall discharge or deposit any types of waste
from a vehicle to a street, road, thoroughfare or public
place within the Urban Council area.
(viii) Any applicant for construction or renovation of a house
or any other premises shall include in his application
details of solid waste generated in his premises and the
manner of storing, treating or processing of discharged
material.
RESIDENTIAL PREMISES
8. (i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall segregate the
wastes collected by sweeping or by any other method
as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Animal carcasses, body parts or dung,
(e) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall put the segregated waste
into separate bags, bins or other receptacles and place
them in an area reserved for this purpose until removal.
Food waste and other bio-degradable waste shall be
kept in a receptacle made of an impermeable material
which will be properly closed preventing the entry of
rats, insects and animals. Waste of animal carcasses,
body parts or dung shall be handed over to a waste
collector without delay following the payment of a fee
to the Secretary as determined by the Council from
time to time for the Urban Council area taking into
consideration the nature of the disposable waste.
(iii) Every occupier may handover to an authorized collector,
types of waste specified in item (a) and (b) of paragraph
(i). If the occupier fails to do so, he shall together with
the type of waste specified in item ( c) hand over to an
Urban waste collector or deposit in bins constructed
for each waste type by the Council or in bins or other
receptacles provided by the Council for such wastes.
9. (i) Every owner or occupier of each residence in a multi-
storied building with a number of tenements, shall
segregate their waste as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Animal carcasses, body parts or dung,
(e) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) The owner or occupier of a building specified in
paragraph (i) shall provide three types of bins or
receptacles in accordance with standards and
specifications approved by the Secretary and shall
maintain them in a clean and sanitary condition.
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of a building specified in
sub-section (i) fails to comply with the provisions of
sub-section (ii), the Secretary has the power to require
the owner or occupier of that building, to provide such
bins or receptacles on or before a notified date by the
Secretary and it is the duty of the owner or occupier to
act in accordance with the requirements of the Secretary.
(iv) Every owner or occupier of a floor or a storey shall put
segregated waste in to the appropriate bin or receptacle.
(v) It shall be the duty of an authorized collector to remove
types of waste spcified in items (
a) and ( b) of sub-
section (i) of this by-law. Any such waste not removed,
together with types of waste of type (e) shall be handed
over to an Urban Council waste collector.
10. (i) It is lawful for the Secretary to provide waste bins or
receptacles for the use of shanty dwellers, after
obtaining prior approval of the Council.
(ii) The owner or occupier of every shanty shall put all
collected waste from his place of residence, segregated
as follows, into the nearest approved bins or receptacles
supplied to his place of residence –
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,

<!-- page 29 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
653
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(iii) The Secretary has the power to permit a waste collector
to remove types of waste specified in items ( a) and (b)
of sub-section (ii) of this by-law. Any such waste not
removed, together with types of waste of type ( c) and
(d) shall be handed over to an Urban Council waste
collector.
SHOPS AND OFFICES
11. (i) Every owner or occupier of a shop or office shall
segregate waste collected in each complex as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Segregated waste shall be put into separate bins or
receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iii) The owner or occupier of a shop or an office may hand
over types of waste specified in items ( a) and ( b) of
Sub-section (i) of this By-law to an authorized waste
collector.
(iv) The owner or occupier of a shopping or an office
complex with several storey and floors shall provide
the required number of waste bins or receptacles for
each shop or office in accordance with the standards
approved by the Secretary for depositing or collecting
segregated waste from such shop or office.
(v) Any owner or occupier of a shop or office specified in
Sub-section (iv) of this By-law shall put segregated
waste into separate bins or receptacles. Every owner or
occupier has the right to hand over to an authorized
waste collector, types of waste specified in items ( a)
and (b) in Sub-section (i) of this By-law.
(vi) Types of waste specified in item (i) and any types of
waste specified in items (a) and (b) of Sub-section (i) of
this By-law, that are not collected by an authroized
collector shall be handed over by the owner or occupier
as the case may to an Urban Council waste collector,
following the payment of a fee to the Secretary by the
owner or occupier as the case may be as determined by
the Council from time to time.
(vii) It is the responsibility of each owner or occupier of any
shop or office to remove waste and maintain waste bins
or receptacles specified in this By-law so as not to
cause any health hazard or sanitation problem to
neighbors or persons engaged in services in such shop
or office.
(viii) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires :–
“Occupier” means the owner of a shop, or occupier or
caretaker of a business or an office,
“Office” has the same meaning given in the Shops and
Office Employees Act, No. 19 of 1954 (Chapter
129),
“Shop” means a place where goods are kept for
wholesale or retail and includes a place where food
or beverages are kept for sale, and a place where a
barber shop or beauty salon is operated.
HOTELS
12. (i) Any hotelier or any person authorized by him in writing
shall segregate waste collected at the premises or cause
it to be segregated as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b
) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him in
writing shall put in suitable bins or receptacles the
segregated waste and store in a suitable place until
removal from the allotted space.
(iii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him in
writing shall pack in a bin or other receptacle made of
plastic or metal properly secured with a lid, all food
waste and bio-degradable waste preventing the entry of
flies, rats, insects or any other animal.
(iv) Types of waste specified in items ( a) and ( b) in Sub-
section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to
authorized collector.
(v) Any such waste not handed over under sub-section (iv)
of this By-law and types of waste specified in item (i)
shall be handed over to an Urban Council waste collector
on payment of a fee by the owner or occupier to the
Secretary as determined by the Council from time to
time taking into consideration the nature of the waste.
(vi) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires, “Hotel” means a place with or
without sleeping facilities where food of beverages or

<!-- page 30 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
654
liquor are supplied for consumption on payment of
money and it includes a restaurant, guest house, lodging
house, rest house, pilgrim’s rest, rice and curry boutique,
cafeteria and any other premises in which a business is
carried out in a similar manner to a hotel.
VEGETABLE AND FRUIT STORES
13. (i) The owner or person in charge of every vegetable or
fruit store shall segregate the waste collected within his
own premises as follows :-
(a) Vegetable, fruit or any other waste not suitable for
human consumption,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Types of waste specified in item ( a) of Sub-section (i)
of this By-law shall be kept in a separate receptacle
made of impermeable plastic or metal and shall be secured
properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or
any other animals. Other waste shall be put into any
suitable bin or other receptacle.
(iii) Types of waste specified in iterms ( a), (b) and ( d) of
sub-section (i) of this By-law, may be handed over to
an authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over
together with types of waste specified in item ( c) and
(d) of Sub-section (i) of this By-law shall be handed
over to Urban Council waste collector, on payment of a
fee to the Secretary, as determined by the Council from
time to time.
(iv) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires “Vegetable and fruit store” means a
place where vegetable and fruit are stored and kept or
exposed for sale.
MEAT, FISH, POULTRY AND EGG STALLS
14. (i) No person shall slaughter any animal or bird other than
those permitted under the provisions of the Butchers
Ordinance in terms of a license issued by the Secretary
for that purpose, at the place specified therein.
(ii) Every license issued uner Sub-section (i) of this By-law
shall specify the type of animals or birds that can be
slaughtered, the manner in which the slaughter house
shall be constructed and conditions relating to cleaning
and removal of blood, intestines and other parts not
taken for human consumption and other condition the
Council may think fit.
(iii) The Secretary may charge a fee as determined by the
Council from time to time for the issue of a license
under sub-section (i) of this by-law payable at time of
issue.
(iv) The owner or person who carried out the business of a
stall for the sale of meat, fish or egg shall segregate their
waste as follows :
(a) Carcasses or parts of carcasses or eggs not suitable
for human consumption,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(v) Segregated waste shall be placed in a separate bin or
other receptacle, types of waste specified in item (a) of
Sub-section (iv) of this By-law shall be placed inside an
impermeable receptacle and shall be secured properly,
preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other
animals so as to prevent pollution.
(vi) Types of waste specified in items ( a), ( b) and ( d) of
Sub-section (iv) of this By-law, may be handed over to
an authorized collector. Any such waste not handed
over, together with type of waste specified in item ( c)
of sub-section (iv) of this By-law, shall be handed over
to an Urban Council waste collector, following the
payment of a fee as determined by the Council from
time to time before the spread of foul odor.
(vii) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires “meat, fish or egg stall” means a
place where such items are stored for purpose of sale or
kept or exposed for sale.
PA VEMENT HAWKING
15. (i) A pavement hawker who carried out a business which
generates waste shall keep a bin or other receptacle for
such waste, in accordance with the standards to be
approved by the Secretary. Any such waste shall not be
put on the pavement or highway or in a public place.
(ii) No p avement hawker shall keep either a bin or other
receptacle in such a way as to obstruct movement of
vehicles or pedestrian.
(iii) Every pavement hawker shall segregate waste generated
by reason of his business as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste.
(iv) Segregated waste shall be put into a separate bin or
other receptacle. Types of waste specified in item ( a)

<!-- page 31 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
655
of Sub-section (iii) of this By-law that may be eaten by
insects, rats or animals shall be placed inside a secured
receptacle, which shall be kept closed except when
required to place additional waste inside.
(v) Every pavement hawker shall be handed over daily such
types of waste as specified in items ( a) and (b) of sub-
section (iii) of this by-law to an authorized collector or
together with such types of waste as specified in item
(c) of Sub-section (iii) of this By-law to an Urban Council
waste collector. Receptacles with waste shall not be
kept, on a pavement or roadside or highway, when the
business is not in operation.
(vi) Every pavement hawker shall pay a fee as determined
by the Council from time to time before waste bins or
other receptacles are handed over to an Urban Council
waste collector.
(vii) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires, “Pavement hawker” means a person
who sells goods or provides a service on the pavement
or roadside.
FACTORIES
16. (i) Every owner of a factory or a manufacturer shall collect
waste generated by such factory within the factory
premises and segregate them as follows :-
(a) Bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Types of waste specified in items ( a) and ( b) of sub-
section (i) of this by-law may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over,
shall be handed over to an Urban Council waste collector,
on a payment of a fee as determined by the Council
from time to time, to the Secretary.
(iii) Hazardous waste shall be removed according to the
conditions set out in the Environmental Protection
License issued under the National Environmental Act,
No. 47 of 1980, for that business.
(iv) For the purpose of this by-law, unless the context
otherwise requires, “Factory” has the same meaning as
in the Factories Ordinance No. 45 of 1942 (Chapter
128).
EXCAV A TION, CONSTRUCTION AND
DEMOLITION
17. (i) Every person who excavates any street, road or any
public place or constructs or demolishes, any structure
shall store such waste so generated within the premises
or in a place approved by the Secretary until removal of
such waste from such premises in an appropriate manner.
(ii) The waste referred to in Sub -section (i) of this By-law
shall be handed over to an Urban Council waste collector
on a payment of a fee to the Secretary as determined by
the Council from time to time.
(iii) In this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires –
“For the purpose of this by-law, every person engaged
in an act of excavation, construction or demolition”
includes any person engaged for such service by an
employer.
“Waste” includes earth, mud, dust, waste generated in
construction from the use of building materials and
waste generated during demolition of any
construction.
18. (i) Any person who excavates any street, road or any public
place for the purpose of providing gas, electricity, water,
telephone facilities or any other public amenities shall
obtain prior approval from the Secretary.
(ii) The Secretary shall take into consideration the
arrangements made by the applicant for the removal of
waste, the quantity of waste that may be kept
temporarily on the road or in a public place after
completion of the proposed job and the cost of removal
of such waste, if the applicant neglects to do so prior to
giving approval under sub-section (i) the applicant shall
be required to pay a amount equivalent to the estimated
cost as a deposit before approval is granted.
(iii) Where a person fails or neglects to remove the entire
quantity of waste or a part thereof, such quantity of
waste shall be removed in a manner to be decided by the
Secretary and the resulting expenditure incurred may be
set off from the money deposited under Sub-section
(ii).
HOSPITALS
19. (i) The owner of a hospital shall segregate or cause to be
segregated waste generated within the premises as
follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,

<!-- page 32 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
656
(c) Hazardous waste, excluding type of waste item ( d)
in this sub-section,
(d) Hazardous healthcare waste,
(e) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Types of waste specified in items ( a) and ( b) under
Sub-section (i) shall be deposited in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal. Types of
waste specified in items ( c) and ( d) of sub-section (i)
shall be deposited in a bins or any other receptacles
specially made for that purpose and kept in a place set
apart for that purpose and shall be removed in
accordance with the conditions set out in the
Environment Protection License issued to that hospital
under the National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) and (e) of
sub-section (i) shall be handed over to an authorized
collector or to the Municipal waste collector, following
the payment of a fee as determined by the Council from
time to time.
(iv) In this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires –
"Hospital" means any premises (howsoever described)
used or intended to be used for the reception,
nursing and treatment of persons or animals
suffering from any illness or infirmity and includes
a nursing home, clinic, medical centre, medical
laboratory, maternity home and veterinary hospital,
"Hazardous health care waste" means clinical waste,
body parts, placentas, infectious and highly
infectious waste and sharps.
OTHER PREMISES
20. (i) Any person who carries out a business not specified in
By-laws Nos. 8 to 19 or any person who organizes and
operates with the participation of the public, a religious,
social, cultural or educational activity or due to
maintenance of such an establishment as follows ;-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Any organizer of any activity specified in sub-section
(i) shall inform the Council in advance, so that special
arrangements may be made to collect the waste from
such activity. In such cases, waste collection may be
subject to a fee as determined by the Council from time
to time.
(iii) Segregated waste shall be packed in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iv) Types of waste specified in items ( a), ( b) and ( d) of
sub-section (i) of this By-law shall be handed over to an
authorized collector or to a Urban Council waste
collector, along with the type of waste specified in item
(c) of sub-section (i), on payment of a fee as determined
by the Council from time to time.
STREETS AND PUBLIC PLACES
21. (i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval of the Council shall take steps
to plan, supervise, control and administer the
following :-
(a) To maintain in a clean and sanitary condition, the
streets, public places, thoroughfares, public drains,
watercourses and public markets situated within
the Urban Council area.
(
b) To provide, fix and properly maintain a sufficient
number of waste bins on both sides of the streets
or roads and in all public places.
(c) To provide mobile waste bins for use in a public
places, at festivals, special events or any other
event as determined by the Council where the
Council decides to do so, or following a request
from the organizers of such festival on special
events.
(d) To maintain in a sanitary condition, public, waste
bins or receptacles installed in residential areas and
remove the waste deposited therein before it
becomes a nuisance to nearby residents.
(e) To investigate any complaint received in respect of
the activities specified in the preceding sections
and take action forthwith.
(ii) No person shall deposit household, commercial,
institutional, industrial or other waste in any waste bin
provided by the Council specifically for litter.
DUTIES OF THE URBAN  COUNCIL
22. (i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval of the Council shall plan,
supervise, control and administer following :-
(a) To encourage people to reduce, reuse and recycle
waste,
(b) To conduct awareness programs or propaganda
through media in relation to segregation, collection,
storage, discharge and disposal of waste,

<!-- page 33 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
657
(c) To assist individuals and micro-enterprises engaged
in reuse and recycling activities,
(d) To offer incentives to those involved in the reduction,
reuse and recycle activities,
(e) To regulate different types of waste discharge
system,
(f) To prepare a waste collection schedule, setting out
collection days, times, methods and fees as
determined by the Council for different types of
waste in different areas of the Urban Council. This
schedule shall be publicly notified by the Council.
It may include conditions for collection on public
holidays,
(g) To collect any segregated waste, not hand over to
authorized collectors separately, on time and
according to schedule,
(h) To transport, in a sanitary manner, hazardous waste
and any other waste, that has not been handed over
to authorized collectors,
(i) To handover to an authorized collector waste
collected from street sweeping, cleaning the drains
and the cleaning the public places and waste
collected from public bins and waste collected by
Council labourers, except for hazardous waste or
other types of waste specified by the Secretary,
(j) To take appropriate measures to deal with
segregated waste collected by Municipal waste
collectors, including arrangement for the processing
and treatment of part or all food and other bio-
degradable, reusable and recyclable waste as much
as practicable and to dispose of the rejects from
such operations and other residual waste of these
types in a manner, approved by the Secretary,
(k) To dispose of all hazardous waste in a manner
approved by the Secretary, in consultation with
the Central Environmental Authority,
(l) To obtain a license or environmental protection
license in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 and
subject to the conditions specified in the license or
environmental protection license to burn waste or
to maintain a sanitary landfill.
(m) To provide appropriate clothing, hand gloves, mouth
covers and boots to every employee engaged in
sweeping, collection, segregation, transportation,
transfer and disposal of waste,
(n) To check and approved details of the manner of
disposal of solid waste generated on construction
or renovation and the manner of storage, process
and disposal of rubble at the initials stage and on
the completion of the specified works where an
application is submitted to the Council for the
construction or renovation of a house or other
premises,
(o) To prepare an internal Waste Management Plan for
all Council premises,
(p) To prepare and implement a Solid Waste
Management Action Plan to accordance with the
National Strategy of Solid Waste Management and
relevant legislation which covers at least each
calendar year in detail and three years ahead for
final disposal and such plan shall be approved
annually on a less frequent basis by the Council,
according to the period it covers.
(q) To investigate any complaint received by the
Chairman and the Secretary regarding the activities
referred to in items ( a) to (p) within three days for
any possible nuisance and within fourteen days for
any other complaint and take action forthwith.
PERMITS
23. (i) The Council may issue a permit to any person who
re-uses or recycles waste material or manufactures
compost, bio-gas or any other product where any
person –
(a) Carries out any business within the Urban Council
area or in any other Local Authority area, in terms
of the by-laws as approved by the Council,
(b) Possesses an Environmental Protection License,
issued in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980,
(c) Storage place for collected waste constructed in
accordance with the standards approved by the
Council,
(d) Provides vehicles for transportation of collected
waste in a sanitary manner as approved by the
Council and without causing nuisance to people,
(e) Agrees to handover to residual or reject waste or
any other waste created as by-products during
processing or treatment, to the Council as approved
by the Council on payment of a fee the Secretary
for collection of such waste as determined by the
Council from time to time, where the business is
carried out within the Urban Council Limits.

<!-- page 34 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
658
(ii) Where the Council refuses or rejects to issue a permit,
the applicant shall be informed in writing of the reasons
for such refusal or rejection within thirty days of receipt
of the application for the permit.
(iii) The Secretary shall indicate in the permit, the period of
validity, the type or types of waste permitted to be
Collected, the permitted area for collection of such waste
and any other appropriate conditions.
(iv) The Secretary shall revoke the permit issued under this
By-law in the event of non-compliance of the provisions
of subsection (i) of this By-law.
(v) No person shall collect or receive waste when a permit
is revoked under the provision of sub-section (iv). In
such event the Secretary shall give sufficient publicity
thorough media in order to bring awareness to the people
of the revocation of such permit.
WASTE  DISPOSAL  AREAS
24. No unauthorized person shall enter loiter, deposit, disturb
or remove any article, material or refuse from a waste
disposal area reserved by the Council for that purpose no
deposit any prohibited refuse which the Council from time
to time may stipulate unless authorized by the Council
subject to certain specified conditions.
25. No person shall provides, operate or use any land or facility
for the deposit of waste originating from a place outside the
land or facility within the Urban Council limits except with
the prior written approval of the Council and the Central
Environmental Authority subject to any conditions of
approval.
OTHER
26. (i) The Secretary any person authorized by him in writing
shall have the power, at all reasonable times to enter
any premises and inspect as to whether the owner or
occupier acts in conformity with the provisions of these
by-laws.
(ii) The owner, occupier, caretaker, manager or any person
residing or serving in that premises shall furnish the
information required by the Secretary or any authorized
officer.
(iii) No person shall obstruct the Secretary or an authorized
officer or assistant authorized officer in the exercise of
his powers under these By-laws.
27. Any authorized officer or any assistant authorized officer
who implements and enforce these By-laws may be offered
incentives according to the decisions made by the Council
from time to time.
28. Any person who contravenes of any provision of these
by-laws shall be guilty of an offence as per Urban Council
Ordinance.
INTERPRETATION
29. For the purpose of these by-laws, unless context otherwise
requires –
"Authorized Collector" means a person who obtains a
permit from the Secretary to collect or receive waste
under the provision of these By-laws.
"Authorized Officer" means any person who has been
authorized in writing by the Secretary to execute or
carry out such duties under these By-laws.
"Bin or other receptacles" means any bin, sack, bag or
other container used for waste storage, discharge,
collection or transportation that complies with the
requirements set out in these By-laws.
"Bio-degradable waste" means waste that may be degraded
or decomposed by micro-organisms.
"Collection" means the receipt of waste by an authorized
collector or Urban Council waste collector for
transportation for refusing, recycling, processing,
treatment or disposal facilities.
"Secretary" means in relation to any Urban Council, means
the Secretary of the Urban Council constituted under
the Urban Council Ordinance (Chapter 255) for that
Urban Council any person appointed to act as such
Secretary or any officer of such Council empowered
by or under this Ordinance, to exercise, perform or
discharge any of the powers, duties or functions of
the Secretary to the extent to which such officer is so
empowered.
"Compost" means the final product of the bio-degradation
of waste by micro organism and it is a humus that
could be functioned as soil conditioner.
"Council" means ............... Urban Council,
"Council Area" or "Urban Council area" means the area
declared under the authority of the Urban Council
Ordinance (Chapter 255),
"Discharge" means where part or all of the waste produced
by a person or premises and put out for collection
either within or outside their premiese or given to
authorized collectors or Urban Council waste collectors,
"Disposal" means the placement of all waste that is neither
re-used, recycled, processed or treated, on or in land
where it is intended to stay permanently,

<!-- page 35 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
659
"Fee" means some fee determined by the Council from
time to time.
"Food Waste" means all meat, fish, eggs, vegetables, fruits
and other edible materials that cannot be used for
consumption,
"Garden Waste" means parts removed from trees or plants
in a home garden or stones, soil etc removed from a
home garden.
"Hazardous Waste" means waste that is poisonous,
corrosive, combustible, reactive, radioactive or
infectious in nature.
"Owner or occupier" includes the owner of the premises
or any person who holds power of attorney on behalf
of the owner or an agent or caretaker appointed to
manage the industry, factory, estate by the owner or
recipient of rent and does not include a manager who
acts under the order of another person.
"Public place" means a road, ground, public land, road
reservation, playground, public building, cemetery,
bus stand, railway station, river, canal, stream, lake,
reservoir, pond, pool, lagoon, tributary, waterway,
sea, beach or any other places commonly used by the
public.
"Recyclable waste" means by waste that can be used to
produce new goods by changing their form in the
process so that they are no longer recognizable as
waste.
"Reusable Waste" means waste that can be utilized after
washing, disinfection or cleaning by other means.
"Sanitary landfill" means the final disposal of waste in a
ground in accordance with the accepted standards in
Sri Lanka to minimize the associated social, health
and environmental impacts.
"Segregation" means separating waste into different types
according to the categories used in these by-laws.
"Solid waste" means substances which have no consumer
value to person who abandoned them and includes
rubbish, garbage, litter, street sweepings, drain
cleanings, dust, soil, mud and ash.
"Storage" means keeping waste within the premises of an
owner or occupier or placing it at an approved public
collection point.
"Transfer station" means any place specified by the
Council for this purpose where waste is transferred
from smaller to larger vehicles for the purposes of
imporving the transportation efficiency of the waste
from the transfer station to any recycling, processing,
treatment or disposal facility.
"Transport" means transporting waste from the collection
point to processing, treatment or disposal facilities
using sum form of human or animal or mechanically
powered vehicle.
"Treat" means taking any steps or processes to reduce
the potential harm or damage they may cause to people
or the environment.
"Urban Council waste collector" means an employee
engaged by the Council for sweeping, collection,
receipt or removal of waste from bins or receptacles
or a person who has entered into a contract with the
Council to perform such duties.
04-88/4
––––––––––––––––
BY-LAWS  RELATING  TO  ERADICATION  OF
MOSQUITOES   AND  DISEASE  INFLICTING  INSECTS
WITHIN  THE  PRADESHIYA  SABHA  AREA
THE draft By-laws set out below, frame by me as the Provincial
Minister in-charge the subject to Local Government under Section
(2) of the Local Authorities (Standard By-laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952,
read with the Section (2) of the Provincial Councils (consequential
provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, are hereby published.
Pradeshiya Sabhas are empowered by paragraphs ( o) of Sub-
section (9) of Section 126 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987 read with the Section 122 of the said Act to make by-laws on
eradiction of mosquitoes and disease inflicting insects and the
Pradeshiya Sabhas of Southern Province are empowered to adopt
the By-laws in accordance with the provision of Sub-section 3 of
the Local Authority standard By-laws Act, No. 6 of 1952.
Provincial Minister of Local Government
of the Southern Province.
21st day of May, 2012.
By-laws
1. These by-law may be cited as the by-laws for the improvement
of the environmental conditions within the area of Authority of
Pradeshiya Sabha by the prevention of mosquito breeding and
disease inflicting insect breeding and for the prevention of epidemics
within such area of authority.
2. No person shall do any act or cause any act to be done within
the area of authority of any Pradeshiya Sabha which may cause the

<!-- page 36 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
660
breeding of or facilitating the breeding of mosquitoes or any other
disease inflicting insects.
3. It shall be the duty of every owner or occupier of any premises
whether resident or non resident, within the area of authority of a
Pradeshiya Sabha to cause –
(a) Open tins, bottles, boxes, plastic cans, tires, coconut shells,
split coconuts and any other article or receptacle or vessel
found within such premises to be removed or destroyed ;
(b) Gutters, down pipes and drains within such premises to
be cleared of any obstructions so as to ensure smooth
flow of water ;
(c) All water closets, tanks and other receptacles for water to
be maintained in good repair, closed and covered so as to
make it mosquito-proof and insect proof and thereby
prevent the breeding of mosquiotes and disease inflicting
insects ;
(d) Any well found in such premises to be maintain and kept
in good repair thereby prevent the breeding of mosquiotes
and disease inflicting insects ;
(e) Any artifical pond or pool found in such premises to be
emptied and cleaned at least once to every week ;
(f) Measures shall be taken to prevent water getting collected
in the drains found in such premises by allowing free flow
of water and with regular maintenance ;
(g) Shrubs, undergrowth and all other types of vegetation
other than those grown for the purpose of food or for
ornamental purposes and found within a range of five loss
meters from any building within such premises which is
used as a dwelling place, to be removed in entirety ;
(h) All quarries, abandoned gem pits, clay pits or any other
pits with in such premises and used for any other purpose,
to be maintained in a manner so as to prevent water getting
collected in them ;
(i) The removal and destruction of land grown ornamental
plants and aquatic plant commonly known as 'Diya
parandel', "Penda pasi". Telpasi or any other plants or
aquatic plants found within such premises which may
facilitate the breeding of mosquitoes and disease inflicting
insects and prevention of the floating of such plants along
any water course, by the erection of suitable barriers ;
(j) Any latrine, ditch, sewage, cess-pit or sealed pits found in
such premises and its surroundings to be maintained and
kept in good repair so as to make it mosquito proof and
prevent the breeding of mosquitoes ;
(k) Take necessary measures to prevent water getting collected
in the monuments built in cemeteries or in any other place
within such area.
4. The Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any officer
authorized in writing by him may, at any time of the day between
6 a. m. to 6 p. m. enter any premises within the area of authority of
the Pradeshiya Sabha and inspect such premises to ensure the
following :-
(i) Whether such premises is a breeding place for
mosquitoes ;
(ii) Whether the occupier of such premises has complied
with the provisions of the By-laws ;
(iii) Where measures have to be taken to prevent the breeding
of and destory the mosquitoes, what such measures are ;
and
(iv) Whether the spraying of insecticides in the premises
was a success.
5. (i) The Chairman or any officer authorized in writing for
the purpose by him may, after inspecting the premises,
if necessary, require the owner or occupier of such
premises by written notice, to adopt measures necessary
to destroy the mosquitoes and eradicate the conditions
favourable for the breeding of mosquitoes.
(ii) The owner or occupier of a premises to whom a written
notice was given under paragraph (i) shall, comply with
such notice within the period specified in such notice.
6. (i) No person who is the owner or occupier of any premises
shall, without the written approval of the Chairman,
construct any well, bank, pond, water receptacle,
ornamental showers or any other structure where water
can get collected or stored ;
(ii) Where any construction is done contrary to the
provisions of paragraph (I) of this by-law, the Chairman
shall, by a written notice served on the owner or
occupier of such premises, require him to fill up such
well, tank, pond, water receptacle, ornamental shower
or structure with specified material or destroy otherwise
or alter same in the manner specified in such notice
within the period specified in such notice.
7. (i) Any notice under by-law 5 or 6 may be either duly
served by delivering it personally to the owner or
occupier of the premises or by affixing such notice in a
conspicuous place in such premises.
(ii) Where, more than two co-owners are in joint possession
of any premsies and if notice specified in by-law 5 or
by law 6 is duly served on one of them, all the co-
owners are jointly and severally liable for failing to
comply with the requirements of such notice or for
non-performance of the requirement of such notice.

<!-- page 37 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
661
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of any premises on whom
a written notice has been served under by-law 5 or by-
law 6, fails to comply with the requirements of such
written notice, the Chairman or any officer authorized
for the purpose by him in writing may, enter such
premises at any reasonable time of the day between
6 a. m. to 6 p. m. with any assistants or servants and
carry out or cause to be carried out the work or measures
specified in such notice.
(iv) Where any work or measures specified in a written
notice served on any owner or occupier of any premises
under by-law 5 or by-law 6 has been carried out by the
Chairman or any officer authorized by him in writing,
the expenses incurred in carrying out such work shall be
payable to the Pradeshiya Sabha by such owner or
occupier of such premises. The owner or occupier of
the premises shall, within fourteen days from the date
of a request under the hand of the Chairman for the
payment of such expenses, make such payment to the
Pradeshiya Sabha and if he fails to make such payment
as requested the provisions of the Part VIII of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act shall be applicable.
8. Any person who contravenes of any provision of these by-
laws shall be guilty of an offense as per the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
9. Unless the context otherwise requires, in these by-laws –
"Authorized Officer" shall mean any officer in a Pradeshiya
Sabha authorized in writing by the Chairman of such
Pradeshiya Sabha ;
"Chairman" shall mean the Chairman of the ........... Pradeshiya
Sabhas ;
"Disease inflicting Insects" shall mean Mosquitoes and other
insects which carries diseases.
"Occupier" shall mean a person in occupation of any premises
or having the charge, management or control thereof,
whether on his own account or as an agent of any other ;
"Owner" shall mean any owner or lessee of a premises or
any person who has any right to the rent or produce of
the premises ;
"Premises" shall mean, any land, house, building or any
construction or any well, being used or abandoned or any
abandoned ship, container or vehicle and also includes
any pond, tank or any bank of any lake, water course,
drain or river.
04-88/5
THE  STANDARD  BY-LAWS ON  SOLID  WASTE
MANAGEMENT
Proposed by Ministry of Local Government and
Provincial Councils
THE draft by-laws set out below, framed by me as the Provincial
Minister in-charge the subject of Local Government under Section
2 of the Local Authorities (Standard By-laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952,
read with the Section 2 of the Provincial Council (Consequential
Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, are hereby published.
Pradeshiya Sabhas are empowered by Section 93 and paragraph
(b) and ( c) of Sub-section (ix) of Section 126 of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, to make BY-laws read with the Section
122 of the said Act, on Solid Waste Management and the Pradeshiya
Sabhas of Southern Province are empowered to adopt the By-laws
in accordance with the provisions of Sub-section 3 of the Local
Authorities Standard By-laws Act, No. 6 of 1952.
Provincial Minister of Local Government
of the Southern Province.
21st day of May, 2012.
GENERAL
1. These by-laws are cited as by-laws relating to solid waste
management.
2. These by-laws are enacted for the regulation, supervision,
inspection and control of segregation, storage, collection,
transportation, operation and maintenance of transfer stations,
processing, treatment and disposal of "solid waste" generated in
public places, private premises, at streets, thoroughfares within
Pradeshiya Sabha limits and all other incidential activities thereto.
3. Every owner or occupier of any premises situated within the
Pradeshiya Sabha area shall keep the premises free of waste and in
a healthy and pleasant condition.
4. The owner or occupier of any premise situated within the
area of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall collect, segregate, store, transport
and remove the solid waste generated within the premises or cause
to do so accordance with the provisions of these by-laws.
5. (i) Every owner or occupier of a premises shall collect
solid waste generated within his own premises daily or
in lesser intervals if required, by sweeping or using any
other method.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall segregate or cause to be
segregated the waste collected in accordance with the
preceding sub-section of this by-law in accordance with
the provisions of by-laws No. 8 to 20.

<!-- page 38 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
662
(iii) Any bag, sack, bin or other receptacle used by the owner
or occupier for the storage or discharge of waste put out
for collection under the provisions of by-laws 8 to 20
shall be maintained in good condition and not put out
for collection, if they are torn, punctured, broken or
softened by prolonged exposure to moisture or if for
any other reason, they are likely to collapse or split
when reasonably handled. Pradeshiya Sabha may provide
such receptacles if they so wish subsidizing the cost in
part or in full according to a decision made by the
Pradeshiya Sabha.
(iv) The owner or occupier shall dispose any waste collected
in the manner provided in Sub-section (i) and in
accordance with the collection system and the time
schedule, operated in a Pradeshiya Sabha area, as
determined and publicly notified from time to time by
the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(v) The owner or occupier shall not collect, store or dispose
of waste materials that are detrimental injurious or to
health of occupants, visitors or neighbours or to the
sanitary conditions in that area.
6. (i) No person shall discharge waste to a street, road,
thoroughfare, lane, avenue or any other public place or
premises or a drain or a waterway, water reservoir or
the sea.
(ii) No person shall burn waste by damaging the
environment in an open space within the Pradeshiya
Sabha area.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier fails to obtain permission
in terms of the provisions of By-law No. 7 to discharge,
treat, process or dispose of any type of waste, he may
hand over such waste to an authorized collector.
(iv) Waste not processed, treated or disposed of under the
provisions of By-law No. 7 or any type of waste not
collected by an authorized collector under the provisions
of (iii) above shall be removed in accordance with the
provisions of By-law Nos. 8 to 20.
7. (i) The owner or occupier of any premises may dispose
the waste within such premises except –
(a) In areas where disposal of such waste is prohibited
by the Pradeshiya Sabha ; or
(b) Certain types of waste specificed by the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(ii) The owner or occupier of any premises may burn waste
in an incinerator or burner in such premises constructed
in accordance with a plan and standard approved by the
Secretary or treat, process or bury waste in the manner
approved by the Secretary.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier makes a request to the
Secretary for "compost barrel" the Secretary may supply
such equipment subsidizing the cost in part or in full
provided the owner or occupier has sufficient space in
the premises to maintain the equipment.
(iv) The owner or occupier of any premises shall process or
treat the garden waste collected within that premises in
a manner approved by the Secretary as far as practicable.
Such owner or occupier shall hand over to Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector any residual garden waste on
payment of a fee specified as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time taking into
consideration the nature of the disposal waste, to the
Secretary.
(v) Any person who cuts any part of a tree or plant by the
road side of a street, thoroughfare shall remove them or
cause them to be removed forthwith.
(vi) Every person shall take steps to prevent any animal
under his control to pass excreta in a street, thoroughfare
or in a public place. If excreta are passed, that person
shall be responsible for cleaning up the excreta and
disposing of it in accordance with By-law Nos. 8 to 20.
(vii) No person shall discharge or deposit any types of waste
from a vehicle to a street, road, thoroughfare or public
place within the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(viii) Any applicant for construction or renovation of a house
or any other premises shall include in his application
details of solid waste generated in his premises and the
manner of storing, treating or processing of discharged
material.
RESIDENTIAL PREMISES
8. (i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall segregate the
wastes collected by sweeping or by any other method
as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Animal carcasses, body parts or dung,
(e) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall put the segregated waste
into separate bags, bins or other receptacles and place
them in an area reserved for this purpose until removal.
Food waste and other bio-degradable waste shall be
kept in a receptacle made of an impermeable material
which will be properly closed preventing the entry of
rats, insects and animals. Waste of animal carcasses,
body parts or dung shall be handed over to a municipal

<!-- page 39 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
663
waste collector without delay following the payment
of a fee to the Secretary as determined by the Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time for the Pradeshyia Sabha area
taking into consideration the nature of the disposable
waste.
(iii) Every occupier may handover to an authorized collector,
types of waste specified in item (a) and (b) of paragraph
(i). If the occupier fails to do so, he shall together with
the type of waste specified in item (c) hand over to a
Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector or deposit in bins
constructed for each waste type by the Pradeshiya
Sabha or in bins or other receptacles provided by the
Pradeshiya Sabha for such wastes.
9. (i) Every owner or occupier of each residence in a
multi-storied building with a number of tenements, shall
segregate their waste as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Animal carcasses, body parts or dung,
(e) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) The owner or occupier of a building specified in
paragraph (i) shall provide three types of bins or
receptacles in accordance with standards and
specifications approved by the Secretary and shall
maintain them in a clean and sanitary condition.
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of a building specified in
sub-section (i) fails to comply with the provisions of
sub-section (ii), the Secretary has the power to require
the owner or occupier of that building, to provide such
bins or receptacles on or before a notified date by the
Secretary and it is the duty of the owner or occupier to
act in accordance with the requirements of the Secretary.
(iv) Every owner or occupier of a floor or a storey shall put
segregated waste in to the appropriate bin or receptacle.
(v) It shall be the duty of an authorized collector to remove
types of waste spcified in items ( a) and ( b) of sub-
section (i) of this By-law. Any such waste not removed,
together with types of waste of type (e) shall be handed
over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
10. (i) It is lawful for the Secretary to provide waste bins or
receptacles for the use of shanty dwellers, after
obtaining prior approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) The owner or occupier of every shanty shall put all
collected waste from his place of residence, segregated
as follows, into the nearest approved bins or receptacles
supplied to his place of residence :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(iii) The Secretary has the power to permit a waste collector
to remove types of waste specified in items ( a) and (b)
of sub-section (ii) of this By-law. Any such waste not
removed, together with types of waste of type ( c) and
(d) shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector.
SHOPS  AND  OFFICES
11. (i) Every owner or occupier of a shop or office shall
segregate waste colected in each complex as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii)
Segregated waste shall be put into separate bins or
receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iii) The owner or occupier of a shop or an office may hand
over types of waste specified in items ( a) and ( b) of
sub-section (i) of this By-law to an authorized waste
collector.
(iv) The owner or occupier of a shopping or an office
complex with several storey and floors shall provide
the required number of waste bins or receptacles for
each shop or office in accordance with the standards
approved by the Secretary for depositing or collecting
segregated waste from such shop or office.
(v) Any owner or occupier of a shop or office specified in
sub-section (iv) of this By-law shall put segregated
waste into separate bins or receptacles. Every owner or
occupier has the right to hand over to an authorized
waste collector, types of waste specified in items ( a)
and (b) in sub-section (i) of this By-law.
(vi) Types of waste specified in item (i) and any types of
waste specified in items (a) and (b) of sub-section (i) of
this By-law, that are not collected by an authroized
collector shall be handed over by the owner or occupier
as the case may be to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector,
following the payment of a fee to the Secretary by the
owner or occupier as the case may be as determined by
the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.

<!-- page 40 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
664
(vii) It is the responsibility of each owner or occupier of any
shop or office to remove waste and maintain waste bins
or receptacles specified in this By-law so as not to
cause any health hazard or sanitation problem to
neighbors or persons engaged in services in such shop
or office.
(viii) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires –
"Occupier" means the owner of a shop, or occupier or
caretaker of a business or an office,
"Office" has the same meaning given in the Shops and
Office Employees Act, No. 19 of 1954 (Chapter 129),
"Shop" means a place where goods are kept for wholesale
or retail and includes a place where food or beverages
are kept for sale and a place where a barber shop or
beauty salon is operated.
HOTELS
12. (i) Any hotelier or any person authorized by him in writing
shall segregate waste collected at the premises or cause
it to be segregated as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him in
writing shall put in suitable bins or receptacles the
segregated waste and store in a suitable place until
removal from the allotted space.
(iii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him in
writing shall pack in a bin or other receptacle made of
plastic or metal properly secured with a lid, all food
waste and bio-degradable waste preventing the entry of
flies, rats, insects or any other animal.
(iv) Types of waste specified in items ( a) and ( b) in sub-
section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to
authorized collector.
(v) Any such waste not handed over under sub-section (iv)
of this By-law and types of waste specified in item (i)
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector on payment of a fee by the owner or occupier
to the Secretary as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time taking into consideration the nature
of the waste.
(vi) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires, "Hotel" means a place with or
without sleeping facilities where food of beverages or
liquor are supplied for consumption on payment of
money and it includes a restaurant, guest house, lodging
house, rest house, pilgrim's rest, rice and curry boutique,
cafeteria and any other premises in which a business is
carried out in a similar manner to a hotel.
VEGETABLE AND FRUIT STORES
13. (i) The owner or person in charge of every vegetable or
fruit store shall segregate the waste collected within his
own premises as follows :-
(a) Vegetable, fruit or any other waste not suitable for
human consumption,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Types of waste specified in item ( a) of sub-section (i)
of this By-law shall be kept in a separate receptacle
made of impermeable plastic or metal and shall be secured
properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or
any other animals. Other waste shall be put into any
suitable bin or other receptacle.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items ( a), ( b) and ( d) of
sub-section (i) of this By-law, may be handed over to
an authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over
together with types of waste specified in item ( c) and
(d) of sub-section (i) of this By-law shall be handed
over to Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector, on payment
of a fee to the Secretary, as determined by the Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time.
(iv) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires "Vegetable and fruit store" means a
place where vegetable and fruit are stored and kept or
exposed for sale.
MEAT, FISH, POULTRY AND EGG STALLS
14. (i) No person shall slaughter any animal or bird other than
those permitted under the provisions of the Butchers
Ordinance in terms of a license issued by the Secretary
for that purpose, at the place specified therein.
(ii) Every license issued uner sub-section (i) of this By-law
shall specify the type of animals or birds that can be
slaughtered, the manner in which the slaughter house
shall be constructed and cnditions relating to cleaning
and removal of blood, intestines and other parts not
taken for human consumption and other condition the
Pradeshiya Sabha may think fit.

<!-- page 41 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
665
(iii) The Secretary may charge a fee as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time for the issue of a
license under sub-section (i) of this By-law payable at
time of issue.
(iv) The owner or person who carried out the business of a
stall for the sale of meat, fish or egg shall segregate their
waste as follows :-
(a) Carcasses or parts of carcasses or eggs not suitable
for human consumption,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(v) Segregated waste shall be placed in a separate bin or
other receptacle, types of waste specified in item (a) of
sub-section (iv) of this By-law shall be placed inside an
impermeable receptacle and shall be secured properly,
preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other
animals so as to prevent pollution.
(vi) Types of waste specified in items ( a), ( b) and ( d) of
sub-section (iv) of this By-law, may be handed over to
an authorized collector. Any such waste not handed
over, together with type of waste specified in item ( c)
of sub-section (iv) of this By-law, shall be handed over
to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector, following the
payment of a fee as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time before the spread of foul odor.
(vii) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires "Meat, fish or egg stall" means a
place where such items are stored for purpose of sale or
kept or exposed for sale.
PAVEMENT  HAWKING
15. (i) A pavement hawker who carries out a business which
generates waste shall keep a bin or other receptacle for
such waste, in accordance with the standards to be
approved by the Secretary. Any such waste shall not be
put on the pavement or highway or in a public place.
(ii) No pavement hawker shall keep either a bin or other
receptacle in such a way as to obstruct movement of
vehicles or pedestrian.
(iii) Every pavement hawker shall segregate waste generated
by reason of his business as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste.
(iv) Segregated waste shall be put into a separate bin or
other receptacle. Types of waste specified in item ( a)
of sub-section (iii) of this By-law that may be eaten by
insects, rats or animals shall be placed inside a secured
receptacle, which shall be kept closed except when
required to place additional waste inside.
(v) Every pavement hawker shall be handed over daily such
types of waste as specified in items ( a) and (b) of sub-
section (iii) of this By-law to an authorized collector or
together with such types of waste as specified in item
(c) of sub-section (iii) of this By-law to a Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector. Receptacles with waste shall not
be kept, on a pavement or roadside or highway, when
the business is not in operation.
(vi) Every pavement hawker shall pay a fee as determined
by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time before waste
bins or other receptacles are handed over to a Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector.
(vii) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires, "Pavement hawker" means a person
who sells goods or provides a service on the pavement
or roadside.
FACTORIES
16. (i) Every owner of a factory or a manufacturer shall collect
waste generated by such factory within the factory
premises and segregate them as follows :-
(a) Bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(
c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Types of waste specified in items ( a) and ( b) of sub-
section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over,
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector, on a payment of a fee as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time, to the Secretary.
(iii) Hazardous waste shall be removed according to the
conditions set out in the Environmental Protection
License issued under the National Environmental Act,
No. 47 of 1980, for that business.
(iv) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires, "Factory" has the same meaning as
in the Factories Ordinance, No. 45 of 1942 (Chapter
128).

<!-- page 42 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
666
EXCA V A TION, CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION
17. (i) Every person who excavates any street, road or any
public place or constructs or demolishes, any structure
shall store such waste so generated within the premises
or in a place approved by the Secretary until removal of
such waste from such premises in an appropriate manner.
(ii) The waste referred to in sub-section (i) of this By-law
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector on a payment of a fee to the Secretary as
determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(iii) In this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires –
"For the purpose of this By-law, every person engaged in
an act of excavation, construction or demolition"
includes any person engaged for such service by an
employer.
"Waste" includes earth, mud, dust, waste generated in
construction from the use of building materials and
waste generated during demolition of any construction.
18. (i) Any person who excavates any street, road or any public
place for the purpose of providing gas, electricity, water,
telephone facilities or any other public amenities shall
obtain prior approval from the Secretary.
(ii) The Secretary shall take into consideration the
arrangements made by the applicant for the removal of
waste, the quantity of waste that may be kept
temporarily on the road or in a public place after
completion of the proposed job and the cost of removal
of such waste, if the applicant neglects to do so prior to
giving approval under sub-section (i) the applicant shall
be required to pay a amount equivalent to the estimated
cost as a deposit before approval is granted.
(iii) Where a person fails or neglects to remove the entire
quantity of waste or a part thereof, such quantity of
waste shall be removed in a manner to be decided by the
Secretary and the resulting expenditure incurred may be
set off from the moneys deposited under sub-section
(ii).
HOSPITALS
19. (i) The owner of a hospital shall segregate or cause to be
segregated waste generated within the premises as
follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste, excluding type of waste item ( d)
in this sub-section,
(d) Hazardous healthcare waste,
(e) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Types of waste specified in items ( a) and ( b) under
sub-section (i) shall be deposited in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal. Types of
waste specified in items ( c) and ( d) of sub-section (i)
shall be deposited in a bin or any other receptacle
specially made for that purpose and kept in a place set
apart for that purpose and shall be removed in
accordance with the conditions set out in the
Environment Protection License issued to that hospital
under the National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) and (e) of
Sub-section (i) shall be handed over to an authorized
collector or to the Municipal Waste Collector, following
the payment of a fee as determined by the Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time.
(iv) In this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires –
“Hospital” means any premises (howsoever described)
used or intended to be used for the reception, nursing
and treatment of persons or animals suffering from
any illness or infirmity and includes a nursing home,
clinic, medical centre, medical laboratory, maternity
home and veterinary hospital,
“Hazardous health care waste” means clinical waste, body
parts, placentas, infectious and highly infectious waste
and sharps.
OTHER  PREMISES
20. (i) Any person who carries out a business not specified in
By-laws Nos. 8 to 19 or any person who organizes and
operates with the participation of the public, a religious,
social, cultural or educational activity or due to
maintenance of such an establishment as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Any organizer of any activity specified in Sub-section
(i) shall inform the Pradeshiya Sabha in advance, so that
special arangements may be made to collect the waste
from such activity. In such cases, waste collection may
be subject to a fee as determined by the Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time.

<!-- page 43 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
667
(iii) Segregated waste shall be packed in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iv) Types of waste specified in items ( a), ( b) and ( d) of
Sub-section (i) of this By-law shall be handed over to
an authorized collector or to a Pradeshiya Sabha Waste
Collector, along with the type of waste specified in
item ( c) of Sub-section (i), on payment of a fee as
determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
STREETS AND PUBLIC PLACES
21. (i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall
take steps to plan, supervise, control and administer
the following :–
(a) To maintain in a clean and sanitary condition, the
streets, public places, thoroughfares, public drains,
watercourses and public markets situated within
the Pradeshiya Sabha area ;
(b) To provide, fix and properly maintain a sufficient
number of waste bins on both sides of the streets or
roads and in all public places ;
(c) To provide mobile waste bins for use in a public
places, at festivals, special events or any other event
as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha where the
Pradeshiya Sabha decides to do so or following a
request from the organizers of such festival on
special events ;
(d) To maintain in a sanitary condition, public waste
bins or receptacles installed in residential areas and
remove the waste deposited therein before it
becomes a nuisance to nearby residents ;
(e) To investigate any complaint received in respect of
the activities specified in the preceding sections
and take action forthwith.
(ii) No person shall deposit household, commercial,
institutional, industrial or other waste in any waste bin
provided by the Pradeshiya Sabha specifically for litter.
DUTIES OF THE PRADESHIYA  SABHA
22. (i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall
plan, supervise, control and administer following :-
(a) To encourage people to reduce, reuse and recycle
waste,
(b) To conduct awareness programs or propaganda
through media in relation to segregation, collection,
storage, discharge and disposal of waste,
(c) To assist individuals and micro-enterprises
engaged in reuse and recycling activities,
(d) To offer incentives to those involved in the
reduction, reuse and recycle activities,
(e) To regulate different types of waste discharge
system,
(f) To prepare a waste collection schedule, setting
out collection days, times, methods and fees as
determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha for different
types of waste in different areas of the Pradeshiya
Sabha. This schedule shall be publicly notified by
the Pradeshiya Sabha. It may include conditions
for collection on public holidays,
(g) To collect any segregated waste, not hand over to
authorized collectors separately, on time and
according to schedule,
(h) To transport, in a sanitary manner, hazardous waste
and any other waste, that has not been handed over
to authorized collectors,
(i) To handover to an authorized collector waste
collected from street sweeping, cleaning the drains
and the cleaning the public places and waste
collected from public bins and waste collected by
Pradeshiya Sabha laborers, except for hazardous
waste or other types of waste specified by the
Secretary,
(j) To take appropriate measures to deal with
segregated waste collected by Pradeshiya Sabha
Waste Collectors, including arrangement for the
processing and treatment of part or all food and
other bio-degradable, reusable and recyclable waste
as much as practicable and to dispose of the rejects
from such operations and other residual waste of
these types in a manner, approved by the Secretary,
(k) To dispose of all hazardous waste in a manner
approved by the Secretary, in consultation with the
Central Environmental Authority,
(l
) To obtain a license or environmental protection
license in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 and
subject to the conditions specified in the license or
environmental protection license to burn waste or
to maintain a sanitary landfill.
(m) To provide appropriate clothing, hand gloves, mouth
covers and boots to every employee engaged in
sweeping, collection, segregation, transportation,
transfer and disposal of waste,

<!-- page 44 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
668
(n) To check and approved details of the manner of
disposal of solid waste generated on construction
or renovation and the manner of storage, process
and disposal of rubble at the initials stage and on
the completion of the specified works where an
application is submitted to the Pradeshiya Sabha
for the construction or renovation of a house or
other premises,
(o) To prepare an internal Waste Management Plan for
all Pradeshiya Sabha premises,
(p) To prepare and implement a Solid Waste
Management Action Plan in accordance with the
National Strategy of Solid Waste Management and
relevant legislation which covers at least each
calendar year in detail and three years ahead for
final disposal and such plan shall be approved
annually on a less frequent basis by the Pradeshiya
Sabha, according to the period it covers.
(q) To investigate any complaint received by the
Chairman and the Secretary regarding the activities
referred to in items ( a) to (p) within three days for
any possible nuisance and within fourteen days for
any other complaint and take action forthwith.
PERMITS
23. (i) The Pradeshiya Sabha may issue a permit to any person
who re-uses or recycles waste material or manufactures
compost, bio-gas or any other product where any
person –
(a) carries out any business within the Pradeshiya
Sabha area or in any other Local Authority area, in
terms of the by-laws as approved by the Pradeshiya
Sabha ,
(b) possesses an Environmental Protection License,
issued in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980,
(c) storage place for collected waste constructed in
accordance with the standards approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha,
(d) provides vehicles for transportation of collected
waste in a sanitary manner as approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha and without causing nuisance to
people,
(e) agrees to handover to residual or reject waste or
any other waste created as by-products during
processing or treatment, to the Pradeshiya Sabha
as approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha on payment
of a fee the Secretary for collection of such waste as
determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to
time, where the business is carried out within the
Pradeshiya Sabha Limits.
(ii) Where the Pradeshiya Sabha refuses or rejects to issue
a permit, the applicant shall be informed in writing of
the reasons for such refusal or rejection within thirty
days of receipt of the application for the permit.
(iii) The Secretary shall indicate in the permit, the period of
validity, the type or types of waste permitted to be
collected, the permitted area for collection of such waste
and any other appropriate conditions.
(iv) The Secretary shall revoke the permit issued under this
by-law in the event of non-compliance of the provisions
of Sub-section (i) of this by-law.
(v) No person shall collect or receive waste when a permit
is revoked under the provision of sub-section (iv). In
such event the Secretary shall give sufficient publicity
thorough media in order to bring awareness to the people
of the revocation of such permit.
WASTE  DISPOSAL  AREAS
24. No unauthorized person shall enter loiter, deposit, disturb
or remove any article, material or refuse from a waste disposal area
reserved by the Pradeshiya Sabha for that purpose no deposit any
prohibited refuse which the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time
may stipulate unless authorized by the Pradeshiya Sabha subject
to certain specified conditions.
25. No person shall provides, operate or use any land or facility
for the deposit of waste originating from a place outside the land or
facility within the Pradeshiya Sabha limits except with the prior
written approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha and the Central
Environmental Authority subject to any conditions of approval.
OTHER
26. (i) The Secretary or any person authorized by him in
writing shall have the power, at all reasonable times to
enter any premises and inspect as to whether the owner
or occupier acts in conformity with the provisions of
these by-laws.
(ii) The owner, occupier, caretaker, manager or any person
residing or serving in that premises shall furnish the
information required by the Secretary or any authorized
officer.
(iii) No person shall obstruct the Secretary or an authorized
officer or assistant authorized officer in the exercise of
his powers under these by-laws.

<!-- page 45 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
669
27. Any authorized officer or any assistant authorized officer
who implements and enforce these by-laws may be offered
incentives according to the decisions made by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time.
28. Any person who contravenes of any provision of these By-
laws shall be guilty of an offence as per the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
INTERPRETATION
29. For the purpose of these by-laws, unless context otherwise
requires –
“Authorized Collector” means a person who obtains a permit
from the Secretary to collect or receive waste under the
provision of these by-laws,
“Authorized Officer” means any person who has been
authorized in writing by the Secretary to execute or carry
out such duties under these by-laws,
“Bin or other receptacles” means any bin, sack, bag or other
container used for waste storage, discharge, collection or
transportation that complies with the requirements set
out in these by laws,
“Bio-degradable waste” means waste that may be degraded
or decomposed by micro-organisms,
“Collection” means the receipt of waste by an authorized
collector or Pradeshiya Sabha Waste Collector for
transportation for refusing, recycling, processing,
treatment or disposal facilities,
“Secretary” means in relation to any Pradeshiya Sabha ,
means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted
under the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 for that
Pradeshiya Sabha and any person appointed to Act as
such Secretary or any officer of such Pradeshiya Sabha
empowered by or under this Act, to exercise, perform or
discharge any of the powers, duties or functions of the
Secretary to the extent to which such officer is so
empowered,
“Compost” means the final product of the bio degradation
of waste by micro organism and it is a humus that could
be functioned as soil conditioner,
“Pradeshiya Sabha” means ............... Pradeshiya Sabha,
“Pradeshiya Sabha Area” means the area declared under the
authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987,
“Discharge” means where part or all of the waste produced
by a person or premises and put out for collection either
within or outside their premises or given to authorized
collectors or Pradeshiya Sabha waste collectors,
“Dispsoal” means the placement of all waste that is neither
re-used, recycled, processed or treated, on or in land where
it is intended to stay permanently,
“Fee” means some fee determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time,
“Food Waste” means all meat, fish, eggs, vegetables, fruits
and other edible materials that cannot be used for
consumption,
“Garden Waste” means parts removed from trees or plants
in a home garden or stones, soil etc. removed from a home
garden,
“Hazardous Waste” means waste that is poisonous, corrosive,
combustible, reactive, radioactive or infectious in nature,
“Owner or occupier” includes the owner of the premises or
any person who holds power of attorney on behalf of the
owner or an agent or caretaker appointed to manage the
industry, factory, estate by the owner or recipient of rent
and does not include a manager who acts under the order
of another person,
“Pradeshiya Sabha Waste Collector” means an employee
engaged by the Pradeshiya Sabha for sweeping, collection,
receipt or removal of waste from bins or receptacles or a
person who has entered into a contract with the
Pradeshiya Sabha to perform such duties,
“Public place” means a road, ground, public land, road
reservation, playground, public building, cemetery, bus
stand, railway station, river, canal, stream, lake, reservoir,
pond, pool, lagoon, tributary, waterway, sea, beach or
any other places commonly used by the public,
“Recyclable waste” means by waste that can be used to
produce new goods by changing their form in the process
so that they are no longer recognizable as waste,
“Reusable Waste” means waste that can be utilized after
washing, disinfection or cleaning by other means,
“Sanitary landfill” means the final disposal of waste in a
ground in accordance with the accepted standards in Sri
Lanka to minimize the associated social, health and
environmental impacts,
“Segregation” means separating waste into different types
according to the categories used in these by-laws,

<!-- page 46 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
670
“Solid waste” means substances which have no consumer
value to person who abandoned them and includes
rubbish, garbage, litter, street sweepings, drain cleanings,
dust, soil, mud and ash,
“Storage” means keeping waste within the premises of an
owner or occupier or placing it at an approved public
collection point,
“Transfer station” means any placed specified by the
Pradeshiya Sabha for this purpose where waste is
transferred from smaller to larger vehicles for the purposes
of improving the transportation efficiency of the waste
from the transfer station to any recycling, processing,
treatment or disposal facility,
“Transport” means transporting waste from the collection
point to processing, treatment or disposal facilities using
sum form of human or animal or mechanically powered
vehicle,
“Treat” means taking any steps or processes to reduce the
potential harm or damage they may cause to people or
the environment.
04-88/6
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.