

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
709
709
wxl 1"806 - 2013 wfm%a,a 12 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'04'12
No. 1,806 – FRIDAY , APRIL 12, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... ––
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 711
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 03rd of May, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 19th
April, 2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— The Catalogue of Books printed quarterly in January to March, 2010 has been published in Part V of this Gazette.
Note .— (i) Defence Services Command and Staff College (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 22, 2013.
(ii) Earl Gunasekara Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 22, 2013.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
710
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Stan dard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
711
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Recruitment of Graduates to the Sri Lanka Teachers'
Service to fill in the Vacancies in National Schools – 2013
(Sinhala, Tamil and English Medium)
APPLICATIONS are called from graduates for the recruitment to
Grade 3-1 of the Sri Lanka Teachers' Service as per the Teachers'
Service Minute to fill in vacancies in the National Schools in the
island.
01. Suitability :
1.1 General Requirements :
(i) Should be a Sri Lankan citizen ;
(ii) Should possess a moral character and be in sound
health ;
(iii) Should be not less than 18 years of age and not
more than 35 years of age as at 03.05.2013.
1.2 Educational qualifications :
(i) Should have obtained as at 03.05.2013 a degree
recognized by the University Grants Comission and
in the fields of subjects determined by the Ministry
of Education. Should apply only for the teacher
vacancies relevant to the main subjects taken for the
degree.
(ii) Based on the policy recognized by the Ministry of
Education, the G. C. E. (O/L) and the G. C. E. (A/L)
examinations should have been passed in the
following manner :
* Should have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination
at one time in 6 subjects with 3 credit passes
including the mother tongue and Mathematics in
not more than two sittings.
* Should have passed the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination
at one time in three subjects.
Note.– Those who have passed the examinations
cnsidered equivalent to the G . C. E. (O/L) and the
G . C. E. (A/L) Examinations by the Commissioner
General of Examinations can also apply.
02. Method of Recruitment and Conditions of Employment :
2.1 A competitive examination will be conducted in future
by the Commissioner General of Examination on behalf
of the candidates who apply relevant to this notice
and following the order of the appointing authority
and those who obtain higher marks at the competitive
examination will be summoned for the interview.
2.2 The selection for granting appointments to fill in the
prevailing teacher vacancies will be made based on the
sequence of marks obtained at the above competitive
examination.
2.3 In the event that the number of applications received
for a particular subject is lesser than the number of
prevailing vacancies, a competitive examination will
not be held in respect of that subject and the selection
will be made only through an interview.
2.4 Subject to the general conditions governing
appointments to the public service and the conditions
set out in the Minute of the Sri Lanka Teachers' Service
and the amendments which have been made and to be
made thereafter, the selected candidates will be
appointed to Class III of the Sri Lanka Teachers'
Service. This post is entitled to a monthly salary scale
of Rs. 14,135 -180x9 -240x6 - 330x5 - 400x7 - 645x13
- Rs. 30,030 in terms of the Public Administration
Circular No. 6/2006 dated 24.08.2007. It is necessary
to obtain a promotion to Class 2 Grade II in order to
exceed Rs. 15,755, a promotion to Class 2 Grade I to
exceed Rs. 18,515 and a promotion to Class I to exceed
Rs. 21,245. You are placed in the 8th step of this
salary scale Rs. 15,395.
2.5 This post is permanent and pensionable.
2.6 Promotions will be made in terms of the provisions of
the Sri Lanka Teachers' Service Minute.
2.7 Should apply only under the main subjects taken for
the degree and the subject of the appointment is not
liable to be changed on any grounds.
03. Method of applying :
3.1 The application should be in conformity with the model
format attached to this notice and it should be prepared
on A4 paper by using both sides. The relevant
particulars should be entered in candidate's own
handwriting. Headings 1.0 to 3.5 should necessarily be
entered on the first page and 4.0 to 7.0 on the second
page. The applications which do not conform to the
model application and the incomplete applications will
be rejected without notice. (It is advisable to retain a
photocopy of the application). Further, the candidate
should satisfy himself/herself that the completed
application conforms to the model application. If no
such conformity, the application will be rejected.
3.2 The subject applied for will not be changed on any
grounds and the appeals forwarded to that effect will
not be considered. Also, one candidate can forward
only one application.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
712
3.3 A candidate should get the signature certified by one of
the following : A Principal of a government school ; a
Justice of Peace ; a Commissioner of Oaths ; a Lawyer ;
a Notary Public ; a Commissioned Officer of the three
forces ; an officer holding a post in Police Service which
appeared in the Gazette or a officer in a permanent
post in the public service who receives in basic annual
salary of more than Rs. 240,360.
3.4 Duly completed applications should be sent to reach
the address "Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, Pelawatte,
Battaramulla" through registered post on or before
03.05.2013. The phrase "Recruitment of Graduates to
the Sri Lanka Teachers' Service to fill in Teacher
Vacancies in National Schools - 2013 (Sinhala, Tamil
and English media)" should compulsorily be written
on the top left hand corner of the envelope in which
the application is enclosed.
3.5 Incomplete applications in any form will be rejected.
Any complaint to the effect that an application is lost
or delayed in the post will not be considered.
3.6 While the receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged, as soon as admission cards are issued
to candidates, a notice will be published in the
newspapers by the Department of Examinations, Sri
Lanka to that effect. If the admission card is not received
even after 2 to 3 days from the publication of the
notice, this should be brought to the notice of the
Department of Examinations through Fax in the manner
stated in the notice. It is advisable to send your request
to the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka while
retaining a copy of the same with you, enclosing a
certified copy of the application form and the receipt
of the payment made, the receipt of registration of the
letter and a fax number to send the admission, if you
reside out of Colombo.
04. Entry into Examination :
4.1 Admission Cards will be issued by the Commissioner
General of Examinations to all the candidates whose
applications have been received. A candidate appearing
for the examination should produce his/her admission
card in which the signature is certified to the Head of
the examination centre. Those who fail to do so will
not be allowed to sit for the examination.
4.2 A candidate should appear for the examination at the
relevant examination hall. Each candidate should get
his/her signature certified and handover the relevant
admission card to the Head of the examination hall on
the first day of the examination. A set of rules that each
candidate should follow is printed separately in this
Gazette Notification. Candidates are subjected to the
rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations with regard to the conduct of
the examination. In the event of violation of those rules
and regulations, a candidate has to undergo a
punishment determined by the Commissioner General
of Examinations.
Note.– The  issue of an admission card for the examination
to a candidate should not be taken as an
acknowledgement that the candidate has satisfied the
qualifications to appear for the examination.
05. Identity of the Candidates.– All candidates should establish
their identity to the satisfaction of the head of the examination hall.
Only one of the following documents will be accepted for this
purpose :
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department
for the Registration of Persons,
(ii) A valid passport.
06. Punishment for Providing False Information  :
6.1 If it is revealed that a candidate does not possess the
required qualifications, the candidature can be annulled
at any stage before, during or after the examination. If
it comes to light that some fact persented is incorrect
after selection for the post or if some material fact has
been willfully suppressed, the person in question may
be dismissed from the public service.
07. Method of Examination and Medium :
7.1 This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and
English media only in Colombo.
7.2 While the candidates who apply for the vacancies in
English medium subjects should appear for the
examination only in English medium, those who apply
for the vacancies in Sinhala and Tamil medium subjects
can sit for the examination in the mother tongue.
08. Syllabus .– There are two question papers for this
examination. Both the question papers consist of multiple choice
questions and questions expecting short answers in the following
manner. It is compulsory for all candidates to answer this paper.
01. Aptitude Test – Duration 01 1/2 hours (100 marks)
This question paper is prepared to ascertain the
candidate's skill for teaching profession, logical strength
and the ability in decision making. This paper consists
of 60 questions including multiple choice questions
and questions expecting short answers. All the
questions should be answered.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
713
02. General Knowledge – Duration 01 1/2 hours (100
marks)
A question paper consisting of 75 questions, including
multiple choice questions and questions expecting short
answers, to ascertain the knowledge of the candidate in
the economic, political, educational, cultural, scientific
and sports fields and the candidate's awareness of
national and international matters of contemporary
importance. All questions should be answered. All
questions should be answered.
09. Examination Fees. – The examination fee is Rs. 500. The
examination fee can be paid at any District/Divisional Secretariat to
the credit of Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General
of Examinations. The receipt obtained in the candidate's own name
should be pasted to the place specified in the application form and
the number of the receipt should also be mentioned. (It is advisable
to retain a photocopy of the receipt).
10. Guidelines to fill in the application .– When filling in the
application, mention the subject and the code relevant to the subject
as per the following schedule. Accordingly, you should apply only
relevant to the main subject/subjects taken for the degree.
SCHEDULE 01
Medium for the examination Number
Sinhala 02
Tamil 03
English 04
SCHEDULE 02
Subject No. of Vacancies Code No. of Subject
Geography (Sinhala Medium) 22 11
Geography (Tamil Medium) 13 12
Geography (English Medium) 20 13
History (Sinhala Medium) 40 21
History (Tamil Medium) 14 22
Logic (Sinhala Medium) 33 31
Logic (Tamil Medium) 16 32
Arts (Sinhala Medium) 14 41
Arts (Tamil Medium) 13 42
Drama and Performing Arts (Sinhala Medium) 22 51
Drama and Performing Arts (Tamil Medium) 04 52
Home Economics (Sinhala Medium) 23 61
Home Economics (Tamil Medium) 07 62
Information Technology (Sinhala Medium) 13 71
Information Technology (Tamil Medium) 18 72
Information Technology (English Medium) 24 73
Economics (Sinhala Medium) 29 81
Economics (Tamil Medium) 19 82
Economics (English Medium) 18 83
Business Studies (Sinhala Medium) 30 91
Business Studies (Tamil Medium) 06 92
Business Studies (English Medium) 18 93
Accountancy (Sinhala Medium) 31 111
Accountancy (Tamil Medium) 19 112
Accountancy (English Medium) 29 113
Physcis (Sinhala Medium) 48 121
Physcis (Tamil Medium) 32 122
Physics (English Medium) 16 123
Chemistry (Sinhala Medium) 26 131
Chemistry (Tamil Medium) 32 132
Chemistry (English Medium) 22 133
Biology (Sinhala Medium) 15 141
Biology (Tamil Medium) 18 142
Biology (English Medium) 21 143
Combined Maths (Sinhala Medium) 11 151
Combined Maths (Tamil Medium) 26 152
Combined Maths (English Medium) 15 153
Agricultural Science (Sinhala Medium) 24 161
AgriculturalScience (Tamil Medium) 15 162
English 34 171

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
714
11. It is compulsory for the officers currently in the public
service to forward the certified application through the respective
head of the institution under Heading No. 07 of the application.
12. The candidates who fail to appear for the interview in the
prescribed date will not be reconsidred.
13. Also, any certificate produced after the date of interview
will not be accepted.
14. The decision on any matter not covered in this notice and
also the final decision regarding filling in a number of vacancies or
all the vacancies rest with the Secretary to the Ministry of Education.
H. M. G
OTABHAY A JAY ARATNE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
MODEL APPLICA TION
(Only for office use)
RECRUITMENT OF GRADUATES TO THE SRI LANKA TEACHERS SERVICE TO
FILL IN V ACANCIES IN NATIONAL SCHOOLS – 2013
(SINHALA, TAMIL AND ENGLISH MEDIUM)
01. Medium of language for the examination :
Medium No. :
Sinhala 02
Tamil 03
English 04
(Write the relevant number in the cage as per Schedule 01,
Paragraph 10 of the Notice)
Subject Code relevant to the subject
(Write the relevant number in the cage as per Schedule 02 of the
Notice)
1.1 Name with initials, with initials at the end (in English
block letters) :––––––––––––.
E.g.– PERERA  A. B.
1.2 Names denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
02. Present address :––––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
(Admission card will be posted to this address)
03. 3.1 Gender :
(Female - 1, Male - 0)
(Write the number in the relevant cage)
3.2 Civil status :
Married - 1,    Unmarried - 2
(Write the number in the relevant cage)
3.3 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.4 Age as at 03.05.2013 :
Years : Months : Days :
3.5 National Identity Card No. :
04. Details of qualifications in higher education :
4.1 Degree :––––––––––––.
4.2 Date of issue :––––––––––––.
4.3 Valid date of the degree :––––––––––––.
4.4 Main subject/subjects taken for the degree :––––––––––.
4.5 Medium of the degree :––––––––––––.
05. 5.1 Examination fee paid Rs. (in letters) :––––––––––––.
5.2 Number of the receipt :––––––––––––.
5.3 Issuing office :––––––––––––.
5.4 Date :––––––––––––.
Paste here properly the receipt for examination fees
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt with you)
I hereby declare that the particulars given in this application are
true to my knowledge and belief. I am fully aware that, if it appears
even after I am selected for this post that I am unsuitable for it, I am
liable to be dismissed from service. I also state that I shall be
subject to the rules and regulations that the Commissioner General
of Examinations enacts in relation to the conduct of the examination.
Further, I state that any particulars given in this application are not
changed by me hereafter.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2013
715
6.0 Attestation of Signature of candidate :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. who has signed
above is known to me personally and that he/she placed the signature
in my presence and that the receipt obtained after the payment of
examination fees is attached.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name of the Attestor :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
7.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department (when the applicant
is a public servant) :
The application of Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................................ is
forwarded herewith. I hereby certify that he/she serves as a
permanent/temporary/casual servant of this Ministry/Department
and he/she can be/cannot be released from service if selected for this
post.
––––––––––––––,
Head of Department or Authorized Officer.
Date :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :––––––––––––.
04–479
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.