

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2562
Page
Post - Vacant … … … -
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"095 – 2018 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 26 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'10'26
No. 2,095 –  FRiday ,  octobER 26, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 16th November, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 02nd November, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
2560 -b 81461- 5,403 (10/2018)
Note–   appropriation (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka of october 19, 2018.
N.B.–    (i) Part i : iiI and iV (a) of the Gazette No. 2,094 of 19.10.2018 was not published.
(ii) the list of Jurors in Matale district Jurisdiction areas in year 2018 has been published in Part Vi of this Gazette in Sinhala,  
tamil and English languages. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.10.2018
2561
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of	the	Examination	Hall	Staff.	If	there	is	an	urgent	need	for	a	candidate	
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should	be	tied	up	with	the	answer	script.	It	should	be	a	part	of	the	answer	
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside	the	Examination	Hall	should	not	be	taken	out.	If	a	question	has	been	
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes	of	colours	and	boxes	of	instruments	where	necessary	or	any	file	
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15.	Impersonation	while	answering	a	paper	or	before	the	commencement	
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		 Be		 at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper.	If	you	have	any	doubt	as	to	the	location	of	the	Examination	Hall,	
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)		In	case	of	any	doubt	regarding	your	entry	for	a	paper	or	eligibility	
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their	identity	cards	at	every	paper	they	sit.	If	a	candidate	fails	to	produce	
identification	documents	at	the	Examination	Hall,	his	candidature	is	liable	
to	be	cancelled.	In	case	a	candidate	forgets	to	bring	such	documents	into	
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis	paper)	will	be	supplied.	If	you	receive	any	stationery	that	is	different	
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index	Number	and	the	name	of	the	Examination	on	each	sheet	of	paper	
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of	 the	 problem.	 Necessary	 sketches,	 diagrams	 and	 figures	 should	 be	
accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		answer	running	into	serveral	pages	if	
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or	to	an	Invigilator.	Or	else	remain	in	your	seat	till	it	is	collected.		Failure	
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
	(xii)		If	it	becomes	necessary	for	you	to	speak	to	the	Supervisor	or	an	
Invigilator,	or	if	you	need	stationery,	remain	in	your	seat	and	raise	your	
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'26
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.10.2018
2562
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
fIRST EffICIENCy bAR ExAmINATION 
fOR SENIOR STATISTICIANS AND 
STATISTICIANS IN ThE DEPARTmENT Of 
CENSuS AND STATISTICS - 2014(2018) - I
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination for 
officers belonging to the Senior Statistician and Statistician 
post will be held in January, 2019 by the department of 
Examinations, in accordance with the provisions of relevant 
approved scheme of recruitment. 
02.  (i) this examination will be held by the commissioner 
General of Examinations and candidates are bound 
by the rules and regulations stipulated by him in 
respect of holding this examination and issuance 
of results. the decision of the commissioner 
General of Examination will be the final decision 
with respect of holding examination and issuing 
results. 
 (ii) a set of rules and regulations for candidates is 
published separately in the Gazette notification. 
any candidate who violates these rules and 
regulations will be liable to a punishment imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations. 
03. examination fees.– candidates can sit for the subjects at 
once or in several sittings. candidates who are sitting this 
examination for the first time need not to pay any examination 
fee. However, at consequent sittings, candidates are required 
to pay Rs. 600 for one subject and Rs. 1,200 for two subjects 
or more or for the whole examination. this could be paid 
at any post office/sub post office or any District/Divisional 
Secretariat office in the island to be credited to Revenue Head 
20-03-02-13 of the commissioner General of Examinations 
and the original receipt should be firmly affixed in the place 
specified in the application form. (It would be advisable to 
keep a photocopy of this receipt.) Kindly be informed that in 
addition to examination fees, you will not be charged of any 
extra payment. Money orders or stamps are not accepted as 
examination fees and under any circumstances this fee will 
not be refunded or transferred to any other examination. 
04. Applications.– the application should be prepared 
according to the format given at the end of this notice on a4 
size paper. Headings 01 to 04 should be entered on the first 
page and rest on the second page. Further, it is compulsory 
to indicate the title of the examination appearing the 
application in English language too on both Sinhala and 
tamil application forms. application form can be type 
written but the relevant particulars should be entered very 
clearly in candidate's own handwriting. the applications 
should be forwarded to the commissioner General of 
Examinations, organizations and Foreign Examinations 
branch, department of Examinations, Post box 1503, 
colombo, through the Head of department under registered 
cover to be reached on or before 23.11.2018. the top left 
hand corner of the envelope should clearly mention the name 
of the examination as "First Efficiency Bar Examination 
for Senior Statisticians and Statisticians in the department 
of census and Statistics - 2018". incomplete applications 
and the applications received after the closing date of 
application will be rejected without any notice. Further, it 
is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the 
application form perfected by him/herself complies with the 
specimen given in the examination ntoice, if not application 
will be rejected. (it would be advisable to keep a copy of the 
application.)
05. The Identity of the candidate.– all candidates should 
prove their identity for each subject they are sitting to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor of the examination hall. any of 
the following documents will be accepted for this purpose :
 (i) the National identity card issued by the 
commissioner of department for Registration 
of Persons.
 (ii) a valid Passport. 
 (iii) Valid driving License. 
the decision of the commissioner General of 
Examinations will be final regarding the candidature of any 
candidate, who fails to submit any of the above. 
06. commissioner General of Examination will issue 
admission cards to the applicants who have submitted duly 
filled applications in the correct format mentioning the 
language medium of the examination with the applicant's 
signature, certification of the signature and the certification 
of the Head of department and if any examination fee to be 
paid on or before the closing date of application with the 
receipt of the payment made. A notification will be published 
in the newspapers and the official website of the Department 
of Examinations as soon as the admission cards are issued 
to the candidates. if the admission card is not received even 
after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, an inquiry should be 
made from the department of Examinations in the manner 
specified in the paper notice. In the said inquiry, the name of 
the examination applied, full name of the applicant, National 

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.10.2018
2563
identity card Number and the address should be correctly 
mentioned. in such cases, it would be useful to keep the copy 
of the application, the copy of the receipt of examination 
fees and the receipt of the registered post in hand to provide 
the details if requested by the department of Examinations. 
in case of applicants who live out of colombo, a letter of 
request with the above details and a fax number can be sent 
to the department of Examination in order to get a copy of 
the admission card through fax. 
07. The candidate should get certified his/her signature 
on the admissin card in advance and it should be certified by 
the Head of Department or an officer authorized to do so on 
behalf of him or principal of public school/Retired officer, 
Grama Niladhari officer of the Division, Justice of the Peace, 
commissioner of oaths, attorney at law, Notary public, an 
authorized officer in Sri Lanka Armed forces or an officer in 
public sector, provincial public service, or permanent staff 
officer or incumbent of a Buddhist temple, Chief Reverend, 
clergy or a person in charge of other religious temple who 
is entitled to an annual consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360 
or more. 
08. Head of department should grant duty leave 
to the candidates who are sitting the exam for the first 
time, to whom admission cards have been issued by the 
commissioner General of Examinations enabling them to 
present themselves at the examination. travelling expenses  
will not be paid in this respect. candidates should sit for 
the examination only at the relevant examination hall and 
candidates without admission cards will not be allowed to 
sit for the examination. 
09. the examination will be conducted in the Sinhala, 
tamil and English media. the medium of examination for 
the applicants, who have joined the Public Service through 
a competitive examination, should be the medium they 
have sat for the competitive examination. For the applicants 
who have joined the Public Service without a competitive 
examination, the medium of entry qualification for joining 
the Public Service is considered as the medium of the 
examination. the candidates are required to sit for all the 
subjects in one medium and will not be allowed to change 
the medium of examination given in her/his application. 
10. this examination will be held only in colombo. 
11. examination procedure.– Examination relevant for 
the above post consists of following subjects. 
Subject Duration Marks Pass 
Mark
1. administration 02 hours 100 40%
2. Financial Management in 
Public Sector
02 hours 100 40%
3. English 02 hours 100 40%
4. applied Statistics 03 hours 100 40%
01. Subject No. 01 - administration : 
 Organization of office and field activities and 
organizational methods.
 Following chapters of the Establishment code :
 i, ii, iii, V , Vi, Vii, iX, Xi, Xii, XXiii, XXV , 
XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXiX, XXX, XXXi, 
XXXii, XXXiii, XLVii and XLViii.
 (above chapters should be followed subject to 
the provisions of section i of Public Service 
commission Procedures)
 * Structure of the question paper :
(a) Question paper consists of 2 parts having 4 
questions in each part. 
(b) answers should be provided to only 5 
questions by selecting at least 2 questions 
from part i and ii. 
(c) Every question carries equal marks. 
02. Subject No. 02 - Financial Management of Public 
Sector :
Following chapters of the Financial Regulations :
i - all sections
ii - all sections
iii - all sections
iV - all sections
V - Section 1, 2, 3 and 4
Vi - all sections
Vii - Section 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6.
 * Structure of the question paper :
(a) Question paper consists of 6 essay questions. 
(b) answers should be provided to only 5 
questions. 
(c) Every question carries equal marks. 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'26
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.10.2018
2564
03. Subject No. 3 - English 
english Grammar.– A suitable level of proficiency on the 
following forms of grammar in spoken and written 
langauge is expected from the candidate. 
– t ense and Number
– Sentences (Simple/compound/complex/
compound complex)
– Relative clauses
– Reported Speech
– adjectives and adverbs
– determiners
– Prepositions
Writing Skills.– the knowledge on the modern formats 
and styles of writing is tested in this area of study. 
* internal modes of communication
* Formal correspondence skills
* Writing descriptions/explanations
* Summary writing skills
* Report writing skills
*  Minutes of meetings/agendas/invitations
* comprehension
Reading skills.– candidate's ability to comprehend 
a printed text, infer meaning and verbal/written 
interpretation is expected.
* Reading and understanding the specific and 
general meaning of the printed text.
* Reading and interpretation (Verbal/Written)
* Understanding the cohesion and coherence 
of a passage.
 Structure of the question paper :
(a) Question paper contains questions 
related to the following :
 i. Grammar
 ii. comprehension
 iii. V ocabulary
 iV . Essay
(b) all questions should be answered.
04. Subject No. 4 - applied Statistics :
the objective of this paper is to test the knowledge of 
the candidates on statistical tasks carried out by the 
industry, agriculture Statistics, National accounts, 
information technology (data Processing), Sample 
Surveys, Population census and demography, price 
index and cartography divisions of department of 
census and Statistics :
* Structure of the question paper :
(a) Question paper consists of 8 essay questions. 
(b) answers should be provided to only 5 
questions. 
 11.1 the candidate should score a minimum of 40 
percent (40%) of marks or above to pass in each 
subject and should pass all the subjects in order to 
pass the efficiency bar examination. Candidates 
can complete subjects of the examination at once 
or several times. 
12. issuance of an admission card to a candidate should 
not be regarded as an acceptance of his/her eligibility to sit 
for the examination. 
13. the decision of the director census and Statistics 
will be final in respect of any matter not provided in this 
Gazette notification. 
14. in the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, tamil and English texts in this Gazette notification, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail as the accurate text. 
 director General, 
 department of census and Statistics. 
"Sankyana Mandiraya", 
No. 306/71, Polduwa Road, 
battaramulla. 
Specimen Application form 
FiRSt EFFiciENcy baR EXaMiNatioN FoR 
SENioR StatiSticiaNS aNd StatiSticiaNS iN 
tHE dEPaRtMENt oF cENSUS aNd 
StatiSticS - 2014(2018) - i
(For office use only) 
Language Medium of Examination :
Sinhala  - 2
tamil  - 3
English  - 4

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.10.2018
2565
01. Name with initials writing initials at the end :––––––––.
 (in English block capitals) eg. : SUNiL, J. M. U.
  1.1 Full Name (in English block capitals) :––––––––.
   (eg. : HERatH MUdiyaNSELaGE SaMaN  
   KUMaRa GUNaWaRdHaNa)
  1.2 Surname written first and initials at the end :–––––.
   (eg. : GUNa WaRdHaNa, H. M. S. K.)
  1.3 Full Name :––––––––––.
   (in Sinhala/tamil)
02. Service Station and address :
  2.1 Name of the Service Station :––––––––––.
  2.2 Official Address :––––––––––.
   (in English block capitals) 
   (admission card will be posted to this address)
03.  3.1 Sex :
   Male - 0
   Female - 1
   (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  3.2 National identity card No. :
  3.3 date of birth :
  y ear Month date
  3.4 Mobile Number :
04. Subject/Subjects applied for the Efficiency Bar 
Examination (Please refer Para 10 of the Gazette 
notification) :
Number Subject Subject No.
1.
2.
3.
4.
05. current Post :
  5.1 Number of the appointment letter :––––––––––.
  5.2 date of appointment :––––––––––.
06. Are you sitting for the examination for the first time ? :
  6.1 If not, value of the examination fee paid ? :––––––.
  6.2 Receipt No. :––––––––––.
  6.3 date :––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt here (Only if applicable)
(Keep the photocopy of the receipt)
 
i declare that the above particulars furnished by me are 
true and correct to the best of my knowledge and that i am 
eligible to sit for the examination in the language medium 
indicated above and that i agree to abide by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examination regarding the conduct of this examination and 
issuance of results.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
Attestation of the Signature :
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................... 
who serves at my department is personally known to me 
and that he/she signed in my presence on ........................... 
and that he/she has paid the examination fee with the cash 
receipt affixed. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attestator.
Name :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
(Place the official frank)
Certification of the Head of the Department :
i certify that, 
 1. The particulars furnished by the officer above have 
been checked by me and that 
 2. He/She is eligible to sit for this examination. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Head of department. 
  (Place the official frank)
Name :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
10–1512

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'26
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.10.2018
2566
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  oF  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.
Revision 
mINISTRy Of EDuCATION
Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment of persons, who have passed the Dharmacharya 
Examinations, to Grade 3-II of the Sri Lanka Teachers' Service for filling Vacancies that exist for 
teaching Religious Subjects in the National and Provincial Schools of the Island - 2018
THE closing date of calling applications mentioned in the Notification 08-1136 appeared in the Gazette bearing No. 2,087 
published on 31.08.2018 is extended up to 31.12.2018.
Sunil HettiaracHcHi,
Secretary of Education.
Ministry of Education, isurupaya, 
Pelawatta, battaramulla, 
on 25th day of october, 2018.
10–1521