

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2345$46 - 2023 wf.daia;= ui 16 jeks nodod - 2023.08'16
No. 2345/46  -  wedNesday,   august  16, 2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- Pg 6449 - 106 (08/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
NATIONAL  POLICE  COmmISSION
 
Rules of Procedure made by the National Police Commission in accordance with the article 155FFF of the Constitution 
under and by virtue of the powers vested in the National Police Commission under article 155FF of the Constitution of 
democratic socialist Republic of sri lanka. 
 E.W.M. LaLith EkanayakE,
 Chairman,
 National Police Commission.
At the office of the National Police Commission,    
Block 09,        
Bandaranayake Memorial International Conference Hall Premises,
Colombo 07,
On this 16th day of august 2023. 
Rules of Procedure for the Investigation of Public Complaints 
 1. these Rules may be cited as the “Rules of Procedure (Investigation of Public Complaints against Police 
Officers or the Police Service) 2023”
 2. any person who is aggrieved by, or a person authorized by such an aggrieved person (hereinafter referred to as the 
“Complainant”), as a result of an act of a Police Officer or the Police Service in general may lodge a Complaint 

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'16
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.08.2023
2a
to the Public Complaints Investigation Division of the National Police Commission or to any of the Provincial 
Offices of the National Police Commission (hereinafter referred to as the “Commission”) seeking appropriate 
redress in accordance with applicable laws/regulations.
  the Complainant, when submitting a Complaint, shall indicate the following information in such Complaint: 
 i. Complainant’s name and address;
 ii. Complainant’s National Identity Card Number;
 iii. Complainant’s telephone number (if any); 
 iv. the relevant district in which the incident or complain has taken place; 
 v. the Police station against which the complaint has made;
 vi. Identity/details of the Police Officer/s against whom the complaint has made; 
 3. Investigation into Public Complaints made to the Commission’s PCId as envisaged in Rule 2 above shall be 
carried out on the directions of the Secretary of the Commission, by an Officer authorized and designated by the 
Commission, as Director, Deputy Director, Provincial Director or Investigation Officer of the PCID (Hereinafter 
referred to as “Authorized Officer”).
 4. the Commission shall appoint a “Provincial Director” for each “Provincial Office” established by the Commission 
for each Province in the country. the Provincial director so appointed shall be in charge of investigations into Public 
Complaints received by the respective Provincial Office to which he/she is assigned. The Provincial Directors shall 
report directly to the director, PCId of the Commission.
 5. Any Public Complaint received against a Police Officer or the Police Service in general shall be acknowledged by 
the relevant “Authorized Officer” without any delay and in any event within 10 working days of the receipt of the 
same. 
 6. the Commission shall be vested with the power and/or authority to appoint additional, independent Investigating 
Officers to investigate Public Complaints, as and when the necessity arises. such independent Investigating 
Officers so appointed would be required to carry out their duties and functions under the direction of the Director 
of the PCId of the Commission.
 7. the Commission may empower an “Authorized Officer” or any other independent Investigating Officer appointed 
by the Commission to visit any Police station in the course of conducting investigations into any Public Complaint, 
including visiting any person/persons in the Police Cells and to question and examine such person/s and as well as 
obtain any copies of statements made to the Police and any other relevant documents and reports concerning and/
or relating to the matter complained of, made by any third person.
 8. The Inspector General of Police shall issue specific instructions to all Police Officers/Police Stations to assist 
and facilitate the director, PCId of the Commission in carrying out investigations in to Public Complaints by 
expeditiously providing all material/information/documents required for the investigation of such Public 
Complaints.
 9. All Police Officers, irrespective of their rank, shall be bound and obliged to assist Authorized Officers or any other 
independent Investigating Officers appointed by the Commission for the purpose of conducting investigations 
into Public Complaints envisaged in Rule 2 above, by providing Reports, documents or information requested in 
writing by such Authorized Officers/independent Investigating Officers within a period of two weeks from the date 
of receiving such a request. In the event the requested Report, documents or information cannot be provided within 
the two weeks period specified herein-above, the relevant Police Officer shall be entitled to obtain an extension 
of time, not exceeding a further period of two weeks, by adducing reasons for the inability in complying with the 
relevant request.  

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'16
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.08.2023
3a
 10. the Commission shall best endeavor to complete the investigation into Public Complaints within three months 
(03) of the receipt of such Public Complaint and to inform the Complainant of the decision/conclusion of such 
investigation. every Complainant shall have a right to be informed of the decision and/or conclusion reached at the 
end of an investigation into a complaint made by such Complainant. 
 11. In the event  a Police Officer is found to have committed an offence or an act which constitutes a breach of 
discipline/code of conduct or of a conduct which could be classified as being unbecoming of a Police Officer, 
in the course of carrying out an investigation into a Public Complaint, such Police Officer shall be dealt with in 
accordance with prevailing laws/regulations, including but not limited to the provisions of the establishment Code, 
departmental Orders made under the Police Ordinance and applicable government Circulars.
 12. In the event of any evidence relating to the commission of a Criminal Offence surfacing in the course of an 
investigation carried out in relation to a Public Complaint, such matters/facts and circumstances shall be referred 
to the Inspector general of Police for necessary action to be initiated under the applicable laws/regulations of the 
country.  
 13. where these Rules are silent in respect of any matter regarding the procedure to be followed in investigating Public 
Complaints, the decision of the NPC shall be final and conclusive as regards the same.
 14. the Rules of Procedure (Public Complaints) 2017 made by the National Police Commission published in gazette 
Extraordinary No. 2047/22 of 28th November 2017 are hereby rescinded. 
eOg  08 - 0175
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.