

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
SAFEGUARD  MEASURES  ACT,  No.  3  OF  2018
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 19th of March, 2018]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 36.00 Postage : Rs. 25.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 23, 2018
This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

1Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
Short title and
date of
operation.
Application of
safeguard
measures.
[Certified on 19th of March, 2018]
L.D.—O. 69 / 2016
A
N ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE CONDUCT OF INVESTIGATIONS AND THE
APPLICATION OF SAFEGUARD MEASURES ON PRODUCTS IMPORTED
INTO SRI LANKA; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR
INCIDENTAL THERETO.
WHEREAS Sri Lanka was one of the original contracting
parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of
1947(GATT 1947):
AND WHEREAS the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
1994 (GATT 1994) which is based upon the text of GATT
1947 and was signed in April 1994, includes among others
the Agreement on Safeguards:
AND WHEREAS  it is expedient to make legislative
provisions for the implementation of the Agreement on
Safeguards Measurers on products imported into Sri Lanka:
BE it therefore enacted by Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Safeguard Measures
Act, No. 3 of 2018, shall come into operation on such date as
the Minister may appoint, by the Order published in the
Gazette.
2. (1)The safeguard measures may be applied on
products imported into Sri Lanka, where the Director General
of Commerce (hereinafter referred to as the “Director
General”) determines pursuant to an investigation initiated
and conducted in accordance with the provisions of this
Act, that the investigated product is being imported in such
increased quantities, absolute or relative to domestic
production and under such conditions, so as to cause or
threaten to cause serious injury to the domestic industry
producing like or directly competitive products, and that
the application of safeguard measures is in the public interest.
Preamble.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
(2) Any decisions relating to the application, suspension
or withdrawal of safeguard measures and the modification
or extension of periods of application of safeguard measures
shall be the responsibility of the Inter Ministerial Committee
(hereinafter referred of as the “Committee”).
3. (1) The Committee shall, subject to the provisions of
subsection (2), consist of the following members:-
(a) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister, who
shall be the Chairman of the Committee;
(b) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Finance or his nominee;
(c) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Industrial Development or
his nominee;
(d) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Internal Trade or his
nominee;
(e) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Agriculture or his
nominee;
(f) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Foreign Affairs or his
nominee;
(g) the Director-General of Customs or his nominee;
and
(h) a nominee of the Governor of the Central Bank of
Sri Lanka.
(2)  Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1),
considering the nature of the proposal being submitted for
Constitution of
the Committee.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
its consideration under this Act, and where the Chairman
considers it appropriate, he may, in consultation with the
members referred to in paragraphs ( b) and (c) of subsection
(1), co-opt not more than two other members to the
Committee.
(3) The Chairman of the Committee shall, if present,
preside at all meetings of such Committee, and in the absence
of the Chairman from any such meeting, the members present
shall nominate one of the members present to preside at
such meeting.
(4) The quorum for any meeting of the Committee shall
be four members and the procedure in regard to the conduct
of meetings and the transaction of its business, shall be
regulated by such Committee.
4. (1) For the purpose of this Act, a determination as to
whether increased imports of the investigated product have
caused a threat of serious injury or serious injury to a
domestic industry, shall be based upon an evaluation of all
relevant factors of an objective and quantifiable nature
having a bearing on such domestic industry, and in particular,
the following factors:-
(a) the rate and amount of the increase in imports of
the investigated product in absolute terms and
relative to domestic production of like or directly
competitive products;
(b) the share of the domestic market taken by increased
imports of the investigated product;
(c) the consequent impact on the domestic industry of
the like or directly competitive products, evidenced
by changes in relevant economic indicators such
as production, capacity utilization, inventories,
sales, prices (such as decrease in domestic prices or
lack of increase in domestic prices, which could
Serious injury.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
have otherwise occurred in the absence of increased
imports), productivity, profits and losses, return on
investments, cash flow and employment; and
(d) any other relevant factors other than increased
imports of the investigated product which also are
causing or threatening to cause serious injury to
the domestic industry, though such injury shall not
be attributed to the increased imports.
(2) A determination of threat of serious injury or serious
injury shall be based on objective evidence that demonstrates
the existence of a causal link between the increased imports
of the product concerned and the alleged threat of serious
injury or injury.
(3) Where factors other than increased imports causes
threat of serious injury or serious injury to the domestic
industry in question at the same time, such serious injury
shall not be attributed to such increased imports. In such
cases, the Director-General may refer the complaint for anti-
dumping or countervailing duty investigations, if necessary.
5. A determination of a threat of serious injury caused
by increased imports of the investigated product shall be
based only on actual facts, and in making such a
determination, in addition to the factors specified in section
4, the following shall also be taken into consideration:-
(a) the actual and potential export capacity of the
country or countries of production or origin of the
investigated product;
(b) any build-up of inventories in the country or
countries of exportation;
(c) the probability of exports of the investigated
product entering the domestic market in increasing
quantities; and
Threat of serious
injury.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
(d) any other factors determined relevant by the
Director-General.
6. An investigation to determine whether increased
imports of the investigated product have caused or is
threatening to cause serious injury to a domestic industry,
shall be initiated -
(a) upon a written application being made to the
Director-General by or on behalf of a domestic
industry; or
(b) by the Director-General on his own behalf.
7. (1) An application made under paragraph ( a) of
section 6 shall provide such information as is reasonably
available to the applicant on the following matters:-
(a) a complete description of the imported product
including its technical characteristics and uses and
an identification of its tariff classification and the
duties applicable to such product;
(b) a complete description of the domestic like or
directly competitive products, including the
technical characteristics and uses of such products;
(c) the names and addresses of the enterprises making
the application or the enterprises on whose behalf
the application is being made (hereinafter referred
to as the “requesting enterprises”) and of all other
known producers of the domestic like or directly
competitive products;
(d) the percentage of domestic production of the like
or directly competitive products represented by the
requesting enterprises;
Requirement of
a written
application.
Information
required to be
included in the
application.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
(e) information on the volume and value of the
imported product for each of the three calendar years
preceding the date of making the application and
any other recent data, by the country of origin;
(f) a description of the increase in imports and in
particular whether such increase is absolute or
relative to domestic production, or both;
(g) information relating to the serious injury or threat
of serious injury to the domestic industry, for each
of the three calendar years preceding the date of
making the application and recent data, including-
  (i) with respect to serious injury -
(A) volume and value of the domestic
product;
(B) utilization of production capacity;
(C) changes in inventory levels;
(D) market share;
(E) changes in sales levels;
(F) level of employment and wages in the
domestic industry;
(G) changes in price levels;
(H) productivity;
(I) profit and loss;
(J) return on investment;
(K) cash flow; and
(L) any other information that may relate
to the existence of a serious injury;

<!-- page 8 -->

7Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
(ii) with respect to threat of serious injury-
( A ) export capacity in the exporting
countries;
(B) inventories relating to the imported
product available in Sri Lanka and in
the exporting countries; and
(C) information regarding the probability
of increase in the imports including
trade restrictions on exports to third
country markets;
(h) an explanation, in the light of the information
contained in the application and the requirements
under this Act, of the reasons why it is believed that
serious injury or threat thereof exists, and is caused
by increased imports;
(i) a statement giving specific reasons for seeking an
application of a safeguard measure, such as, to
facilitate the orderly transfer of resources to more
productive uses, to improve competitiveness or to
adapt to new conditions of competition, together
with the type and level of the measure considered
necessary to ensure the achievement of the
objectives pursued;
(j) a plan for adjusting the domestic industry to
competition from imports, in accordance with the
objectives referred to in paragraph ( i) ; and
(k) if a provisional measure is sought, information
regarding critical circumstances where delay in
taking action would cause damage to the industry
which it would be difficult to repair, and a statement
indicating the level of tariff increase requested for
as a provisional measure.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
(2)  Every application made under paragraph (a) of section
6 shall be accompanied by such fee as may be prescribed
and be submitted to the Director-General together with such
number of copies of the application as may be determined
by the Director-General.
(3) The Director-General shall take due account of any
difficulties experienced by interested parties and in particular
small companies, in supplying the information requested
for and provide them, through an advisory body constituted
for that purpose, with practicable assistance or where
appropriate, extend the time granted for the submission of
any specified information, as the case may be.
(4)   The Minister shall constitute an advisory body for
the purpose of assisting applicants in the formulation of
applications made under paragraph ( a) of section 6. The
composition, establishment and all other matters pertaining
to such an advisory body shall be as prescribed by the
Minister.
8. An application made under paragraph ( a) of section
6 may be withdrawn prior to initiation of an investigation,
and in such a case it shall be considered to have not been
made.
9. (1) Where, after examining the accuracy and
adequacy of the information provided in an application made
under paragraph ( a) of section 6, and being satisfied that
there is sufficient evidence of serious injury or threat thereof
caused by increased imports, the Director-General shall
initiate an investigation. Prior to arriving at a decision to
initiate an investigation, the Director-General may seek such
additional information he considers necessary, including
from the requesting enterprises.
(2) Where the Director-General decides not to initiate an
investigation in response to an application made under
paragraph ( a) of section 6, he shall notify the requesting
enterprise making the application or on whose behalf the
application is being made of the reasons for not initiating,
an investigation.
Withdrawal of
application.
Decision to
initiate an
investigation
where an
application is
made.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
(3) Where an application has been received by the
Director-General, he shall generally be required to make a
decision as to whether or not to initiate a safeguard
investigation within a period of thirty days of the date of
receipt of the application. Where the application involved
complex issues, or if Director-General has sought additional
information under subsection (1) of this section, the time for
arriving at a decision may be extended by a further period of
fifteen days.
10. The Director-General may on his own behalf, initiate
an investigation under this Act, where he has sufficient
evidence available of injury being caused or threatened to
be caused to the domestic industry by the increased imports
of the investigation product, so as to justify the initiation of
such investigation.
11. (1) Where a decision is taken by the Director-General
to initiate an investigation under this Act, the Director-
General shall immediately -
(a) notify the requesting enterprises and all other
interested parties, as well as the relevant
representative of the exporting countries, of
such investigation; and
(b)  publish a notice regarding the initiation of such
safeguard investigation in the Gazette and in
any newspaper widely circulated in Sri Lanka
in all three languages.
(2) The initiation of an investigation shall be deemed to
have commenced on the date of publication in the Gazette
of the notice referred to in paragraph ( b) of subsection (1).
(3) An interested party who wishes to participate in
the investigation shall within a period of fifteen days of
the date of initiation of the investigation, inform to the
Director-General in writing of its desire to participate in the
Director General
may initiate an
investigation.
Public notice
regarding
initiation of an
investigation.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
investigation. The Director-General may, where he considers
it appropriate, accept any request from an interested party to
participate in an investigation after the period allowed for
making submission to participate under this subsection.
(4) The Director-General shall immediately after the
initiation of an investigation under this Act, notify the
Committee of such investigation, in conformity with such
requirements established by the Committee.
(5)  Where a decision is taken by the Director-General not
to initiate an investigation upon an application made under
paragraph (a) of section 6, the Director General shall inform
the Committee and upon the approval of the Committee, he
shall cause a notice to be published in the Gazette containing
the following information:-
(a) the identity of the requesting enterprises and
the domestic products with respect to which
the initiation of an investigation is being
requested for;
(b) an identification of the imported product which
is alleged to be causing serious injury or threat
thereof; and
(c) reasons for taking a decision not to initiate an
investigation.
12. The notice regarding the initiation of a safeguard
investigation to be published under paragraph ( b) of
subsection (1) of section 11, shall contain adequate
information on the following matters:-
(a) complete description of the product including
its technical   characteristics and uses and an
identification of its tariff clarification and the
duties applicable to such product;
(b) a complete description of the domestic like or
directly competitive products, including the
Contents of the
notice regarding
the
investigation.

<!-- page 12 -->

11Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
technical characteristics and uses of such
products;
(c) the names of the requesting enterprises, if any,
and of all other known producers of the
domestic like or directly competitive products;
(d) the country or countries of origin of the
investigated product;
(e) a summary of the information on which the
allegation pertaining to increase in imports of
the investigated products and the serious injury
or threat thereof caused by such increase in
imports are based;
(f) name, address and telephone number of the
Director-General;
(g) a statement that the date of initiation of the
investigation is the date of the publication in
the Gazette of the notice regarding the initiation
of the safeguard investigation;
(h) whether or not an application of a provisional
measure will be considered; and
(i) the proposed schedule for the conduct of the
investigation, including -
(i) the date on or before which an
interested party who wishes  to
participate in the investigation may
inform the Director- General in writing
of such fact;
(ii) where the application of a provisional
measure is being  considered, the date
on or before which any written
arguments or submissions may be
forwarded to the Director-General;

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
(iii) the date on or before which an oral
hearing, if so desired, should be
requested for; and
(iv) the proposed dates for the
determination of the application of a
provisional safeguard measure, and
where relevant, for the determination
regarding serious injury or threat
thereof and causation, and of any other
decision regarding the application of a
safeguard measure.
13. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), it
shall be the duty of the Director-General, except in special
circumstances, to conduct an investigation within six months
of its initiation. Where the circumstances so requires, the
period of six months may be extended further by not more
than two months.
(2) Where in any investigation under this Act, the
application of any provisional measure is being considered,
the Director-General shall make a decision relating to the
application of such provisional measures, not earlier than
sixty days and not later than ninety days from the date of
initiation of the investigation.
 14 . In the conduct of an investigation, the Director-
General shall give an opportunity to all participating
interested parties to the investigation to make their views
known on matters being investigated, and to this end
Director-General shall grant to those parties time not
exceeding two weeks to-
(a) make submissions and responses to any
questions or other requests being made by the
Director-General to obtain any relevant
information pertaining to the investigation;
(b) submit any evidence deemed relevant by such
parties, including their views on the matter under
investigation; and
Duration of
investigation.
Interested parties
to submit
evidence.

<!-- page 14 -->

13Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
(c) express their views with regard to whether or
not the application of a safeguard measure
would be in the public interest.
15. (1) In the conduct of an investigation under this
Act, the Director-General may request for any information
considered relevant for purpose of conducting such
investigation, from any customs officer, company, forwarder,
other enterprise, both public and private or person, and it
shall be the duty of such officer, company, forwarder or
enterprise, as the case may be, to provide the information
requested for within such time as may be specified by the
Director-General.
(2)  The Director-General may, where he considers
appropriate, verify or obtain further details on information
received by him under section 14 and subsection (1) of this
section, and where any such verification is carried out, the
Director-General shall prepare a report describing the
findings of such verification and such report, excluding any
confidential information obtained, shall be placed in the
public file maintained under section 19.
(3)  Where in an investigation -
(a) if no hearing is requested for, any participating
interested party may submit written arguments
concerning any matter it considers relevant to
the investigation, not later than a period of one
and a half months before the date proposed for
the determination regarding serious injury or
threat thereof and causation; or
(b)  if a hearing is held, not later than a period of
ten days before the scheduled date of the
hearing, any participating interested party may
submit written submissions and information
concerning any matter it considers relevant to
the investigation.
Director-
General’s power
to call for
information
from certain
person.

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
(4)  A participating interested party shall -
(a) where no hearing is requested for, after the
expiry of the period allowed for the submission
of written arguments; or
(b) where a hearing is held, following such hearing,
have a further period not exceeding ten days to submit any
further written responses to the written submissions of any
other participating interested parties, or submit further written
arguments in response to submissions and information
presented at the hearing, as the case may be.
16. (1)  The Director-General shall keep confidential
all information submitted which is entitled to such treatment
under subsection (2) of this section, and such information
shall not be disclosed without the specific permission of the
party submitting it.
(2) The Director General shall treat as confidential all
information designated as confidential by the party
supplying such information, which is protected from
disclosure under the Right to Information Act, No. 12 of
2016.
(3) The following types of information, if designated as
confidential by the person submitting such information, shall
for the purpose of subsection (2) be deemed to be supplied
in confidence in terms of paragraph (i) of section 5(1) of the
Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016 -
(a) business or trade secrets concerning the nature
of a product, production processes, operations,
production equipment, or machinery;
(b) information concerning the financial condition
of a company which is not publicly available;
and
Confidential
information.

<!-- page 16 -->

15Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
(c) information concerning the costs,
identification of customers, sales, inventories,
shipments, amount or source of any income,
profit, loss or expenditure related to the
manufacture and sale of a product.
(4) A party to an investigation may seek confidential
status for certain information made available to the Director-
General on request being made in that behalf at the time
such information is submitted, including reasons for the
request for such treatment. The Director-General shall
consider such requests expeditiously, and shall inform the
party submitting the information, if he determines that the
request for confidential treatment is not warranted.
(5) Parties to an investigation shall furnish non-
confidential summaries of all information for which
confidential treatment is sought, which may take the form of
indexation of figures provided in the confidential version,
or marked deletions in the text and which shall permit a
reasonable understanding of the substance of the information
submitted in confidence.
(6)  In exceptional circumstances, parties may indicate
that information for which confidential treatment is sought
is not susceptible of summary, in which case a statement of
the reasons why summarization is not possible, shall also be
provided by such parties.
(7)  Where the Director-General is of the view that the
non-confidential summary provided under subsection (5)
fails to satisfy the requirements of that subsection, the
Director-General may determine that the request for
confidential treatment is not warranted, and where in such
instance the supplier of the information is unwilling to make
the information public, the Director-General shall disregard
such information, and return the information concerned to
the party who submitted it, unless it is demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the Director-General that the information is
correct.

<!-- page 17 -->

16 Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
17. (1)   All participating interested parties shall have
an opportunity to submit in accordance with the provisions
of this section, evidence and arguments in writing, including
responses to the written or oral presentations made by other
participating interested parties, and views as to whether or
not the application of a safeguard measure is in the public
interest.
(2)  In an investigation where application of any
provisional safeguard measure is being considered, any
participating interested party may submit written arguments
within a period of fifteen days before the date proposed for
the determination of the provisional safeguard measure, with
regard to any matter relevant towards arriving at such
determination.
18. (1)  The Director-General shall, upon any request
made by a participating interested party, not later than a
period of fifteen days after publication of the determination
regarding the application of a provisional measure, under
section 22 or where the application of a provisional measure
is not being considered, not later than a period of one and a
half month after the initiation of an investigation, fix a date
for a hearing at which all participating interested parties
may present information and arguments orally.
(2) A hearing under subsection (1) shall be held not later
than a period of two months prior to the date proposed for
the determination regarding serious injury or threat thereof
and causation.
(3) Participating interested parties intending to appear at
a hearing shall notify the Director-General at least a period
of one week prior to the date of the hearing, of the names of
their representatives and witnesses who will appear at the
hearing.
(4)  Hearings shall be presided over by the Director-
General or his nominee who shall ensure that confidentiality
is preserved, and shall organize hearings in a manner that
ensures that all participating interested parties have an
adequate opportunity to present their views.
Written
arguments.
Hearings.

<!-- page 18 -->

17Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
(5) The Director-General shall maintain a record of the
proceedings at the hearing, which shall be placed in the
public file maintained under section 19, with the exception
of any confidential information.
19. (1) The Director-General shall establish and maintain
a public file relating to each investigation or review
conducted under this Act. Subject to the provisions of
section 16, the Director-General shall place in the public
file -
(a) all public notices relating to the investigation
or review;
(b) all material, including questionnaires,
responses to questionnaires and written
communications submitted to the  Director-
General;
(c) all other information developed or attained by
the Director-General including any verification
reports prepared under section 15; and
(d) any other documents the Director-General
deems appropriate for public disclosure.
(2)  The public file shall be available to the public for
review and copying at the office of the Director-General
throughout the period of the investigation, review and of
any resulting judicial review.
20. (1) Where, at any time during an investigation, any
party interested –
(a) refuses access to, or otherwise does not provide
any necessary information within the time
determined by the Director-General; or
(b) otherwise significantly impedes the
investigation,
Public file and
access thereto.
Reliance on
information
available.

<!-- page 19 -->

18 Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
the Director-General may reach preliminary and final
determinations (affirmative or negative), on the basis of the
information available, including information contained in
the application.
(2) The Director-General shall take due account of any
difficulties experienced by parties interested, in particular
small companies, in supplying information requested for,
and as such shall provide any practicable assistance or may
extend the time granted for the submission of any specified
information, as the case may be.
21. (1) The Director-General may recommend the
application of a provisional safeguard measure, where he
determines that -
(a) there exists certain critical circumstances and
delay in taking action may cause damage which
would be difficult to repair; and
(b) there is clear evidence that the increased
imports of the investigated product has caused
or are threatening to cause serious injury.
(2) A provisional safeguard measure shall take the form
of a duty payable at the time of importation of the investigated
product. This duty shall be in addition to any duty payable
under any other written law.
(3) The Director-General shall submit his
recommendations to the Minister, who shall forward the same
to the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.
(4)  The Minister in charge of the subject of Finance upon
receipt of the recommendations of the Director-General shall,
in consultation with the Minister, determine whether or not
to apply provisional safeguard measures and the amount of
provisional duty to be imposed.
Application of a
provisional
safeguard
measure.

<!-- page 20 -->

19Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
22. (1) Where a decision is taken up to apply a
provisional safeguard measure under subsection (4) of section
21, the Minister shall direct the Director-General to publish a
notice regarding such application in the Gazette and in any
newspaper widely circulated in Sri Lanka in all three
languages, which shall contain the following information:-
(a) a complete description of the investigated
product, including its technical characteristics
and uses and an identification of its tariff
classification and the duties applicable;
(b) a complete description of the domestic like or
directly competitive products, including their
technical characteristics and uses;
(c) the names of all known producers of the
domestic like or directly competitive products;
(d) the country or countries of origin of the
investigated product;
(e) the basis for the determination of the existence
of certain critical circumstances, where delay
in the application of a provisional safeguard
measure may cause damage that would be
difficult to repair;
(f) the basis for the determination of the existence
of clear evidence that increased imports of the
investigated products have caused or are
threatening to cause serious injury;
(g) the amount of duty increase which is proposed
as a provisional safeguard measure; and
(h) the intended duration of the period of
application of the provisional safeguard
measure.
Notification with
regard to the
application of a
provisional
safeguard
measure.

<!-- page 21 -->

20 Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
(2)  Where a decision is taken against the application of a
provisional safeguard measure, the Minister shall direct the
Director-General to publish a notice of the same in the
Gazette and in any newspaper widely circulated in Sri Lanka
in all three languages, which shall contain the following
information:-
(a) a complete description of the investigated
product, including the technical characteristics
and uses and an identification of its tariff
classification and the duties applicable ;
(b) an identification of the domestic like or directly
competitive product;
(c) an explanation of the reasons for arriving at a
decision against the application of a
provisional safeguard measure; and
(d) a statement as to whether the investigation will
be terminated at that point, or continued
through to a finality.
23. A provisional safeguard measure shall generally be
applied for a period not exceeding two hundred days and
may be suspended before the expiry of that period by the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance, in consultation
with the Minister.
24. (1)  The amount of a provisional safeguard measure
shall be collected and paid in the form of a cheque or a cash
payment, or guaranteed by the furnishing of a bond or deposit
in favour of  the Director-General of Customs.
(2)  Any amount collected as a provisional safeguard
measure shall be refunded and any bond or deposit shall be
promptly released, if subsequent investigations do not result
in a determination that increased imports have caused or
threaten to cause serious injury to the domestic industry.
Duration of a
provisional
safeguard
measure.
Payment and
refund of a
provisional
safeguard
measure.

<!-- page 22 -->

21Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
(3) The Director-General of Customs shall be responsible
for the assessment and collection of provisional safeguard
measures, and the provisions of the Customs Ordinance
relating to collection of duties, shall mutatis mutandis apply
to and in relation to the same.
25. (1)  The Director-General shall, in accordance with
the provisions of section 4 and 5 of this Act, and on the basis
of information disclosed at the investigation, determine
whether increased imports of the investigated product have
caused or threaten to cause serious injury to the domestic
industry.
(2)  At the conclusion of an investigation, the Director-
General shall prepare a report containing -
(a) the final determination, including the findings
and conclusions reached on all relevant issues
of fact and law; and
(b) a detailed analysis of all information disclosed
at the investigation and the relevance of issues
and factors examined by the Director-General.
(3)  In the preparation of the report under subsection (2),
due regard shall be given to the requirement for protection
of confidential information.
26. The Director-General shall immediately upon
reaching a determination, whether negative or affirmative,
as to serious injury or threat thereof and causation, cause to
be published in the Gazette and in any newspaper widely
circulated in Sri Lanka in all three languages, a notice of the
determination regarding serious injury, or threat thereof and
causation, containing the following information:-
(a) a complete description of the investigated
product, including  its technical characteristics
and uses and an identification of its tariff
classification and the duties applicable;
Determination
of serious
injury, threat of
serious injury
and causation.
Public notice
and notification
of determination
of serious
injury, threat of
serious injury
and causation.

<!-- page 23 -->

22 Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
(b) a complete description of the domestic like or
directly competitive products, including their
technical characteristics and uses;
(c) the names of all known producers of the
domestic like or directly competitive products;
(d) the country or countries of origin of the
investigated product; and
(e) a summary of the information disclosed at the
investigation, factors considered and the
relevance thereof and the findings and
conclusions reached on the relevant issues of
fact and law and the reasons therefor.
27. (1) The Director-General shall submit the report
prepared under subsection (2) of section 25 to the Committee,
together with the recommendations of the Director-General
on the application of a definitive safeguard measure.
(2)  The Committee may within a period of ten working
days of the receipt of the documents referred to in subsection
(1), recommend to the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance through the Minister, the application of a definitive
safeguard measure, where it determines that –
(a) as a result of unforeseen developments,
increased imports have caused or threaten to
cause serious injury to the domestic industry;
and
(b) application of a definitive safeguard measure
is in the public interest.
(3) The duration and level of application of a definitive
safeguard measure shall not be more than what is necessary
to prevent or remedy serious injury and to facilitate
adjustments.
General
principle on
definitive
safeguard
measure.

<!-- page 24 -->

23Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
28. Where the Committee recommends the imposition
of a definitive safeguard measure, the Minister in charge of
the subject of Finance in consultation with the Minister
shall, within a period of fourteen working days of the date of
receipt of the recommendation of the Committee and taking
into consideration the interests of the national economy,
determine whether or not to adopt such safeguard measure.
29. (1) Where a decision is taken to apply a definitive
safeguard measure, it shall be the duty of the Director-General
to publish in the Gazette  and in any newspaper widely
circulated in Sri Lanka in all three languages, a notice which
shall contain the following information:-
(a) a complete description of the investigated
product, including its technical characteristics
and uses and an identification of its tariff
classification and the duties applicable;
(b) a complete description of the domestic like or
directly competitive products, including their
technical characteristics and uses;
(c) names of all known producers of the domestic
like or directly competitive products;
(d) country or countries of origin of the
investigated product;
(e) a summary of the affirmative injury
determination, including the factors considered
and the relevance thereof, the findings and
conclusions and the reasons  therefor on issues
of fact and law considered or a cross reference
to the notice of determination regarding serious
injury or threat thereof and causation;
(f) reasons for reaching the conclusion that the
application of a definitive safeguard measure
is in the public interest;
Minister to
determine the
adoption of
definitive
safeguard
measure.
Notice recording
of application of
definitive
safeguard
measure.

<!-- page 25 -->

24 Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
(g) details concerning the domestic industry’s
adjustment plan;
(h) the form, level and duration of the proposed
definitive safeguard measure, and an
explanation thereof in compliance with the
requirements referred to in subsection (3) of
section 27;
(i) the proposed date of application of the
definitive safeguard measure;
(j) if a quantitative restriction is proposed, the
allocation of the quota among the supplier
countries, and an explanation and the relevant
information in compliance with the
requirements referred to in section 31, regarding
the basis on which the allocation is made;
(k) if the proposed duration of the measure
(including the period of application of any
provisional safeguard measure) is more than a
period of one year, a timetable for the
progressive liberalization of the measure; and
(l) an identification of the developing countries
exempted from the measure.
(2)  Where a decision is taken against the application of a
definitive safeguard measure, it shall be the duty of the
Director-General to publish a notice setting forth the factual
and legal basis for reaching such decision, in the Gazette
and in any newspaper widely circulated in Sri Lanka in all
three languages.
30. (1)  A definitive safeguard measure shall generally
be applied in the form of either a tariff increase or a
quantitative restriction on imports, and subject to the
provisions of section 31, be applied on all imports of the
investigated product, irrespective of its source, entered on
or after  the date on which the measure comes into effect.
Form and
application of a
definitive
safeguard
measure.

<!-- page 26 -->

25Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
(2) Where the definitive safeguard measure is applied in
the form of a tariff increase, the Director-General of Customs
shall be responsible for the collection of such tariff increase,
while the administration of a definitive safeguard measure
in the form of a quantitative restriction shall be the
responsibility of the Controller of Imports and Exports.
31. (1)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other provisions of this Act, a definitive safeguard measure
shall not be applied to imports of the investigated product
originating in a developing country Member, so long as those
imports account for not more than three  per centum  of Sri
Lanka’s total imports of the investigated product.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1),
where imports from developing country Members which
individually account for less than three per centum of Sri
Lanka’s imports of the investigated product, collectively
account for more than nine per centum of Sri Lanka’s imports
of the investigated product, a definitive safeguard measure
may be applied to such imports from those developing
country Members.
32. (1) A definitive safeguard measure in the form of a
quota on imports of the investigated product, shall not
reduce the quantity of those imports below the average level
registered in the most recent three representative years for
which statistics are available.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance in consultation
with the Minister, may, where there are sufficient reasons to
justify that a different level is necessary to prevent or remedy
serious injury or threat of serious injury, apply a quota which
reduces the quantity of imports of the investigated product
below the average level registered in the most recent three
representative years for which statistics are available.
(3)  Where more than one country exports the investigated
product to Sri Lanka, any quota on imports shall be allocated
among all the supplying countries.
Non-application
of definitive
safeguard
measure to
certain
developing
countries.
Quotas as
definitive
safeguard
measure.

<!-- page 27 -->

26 Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
(4) Where the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance,
in consultation with the Minister, determines that the method
referred to in subsection (3) is not reasonably practical for
allocation of the quota, he shall allocate the quota among
countries having a substantial interest in supplying the
investigated product. The allocation shall be based upon
the proportions of the investigated product supplied by such
countries during the previous three years, and due account
shall also be taken of any special factors which may have
affected or may be affecting trade in the investigated product.
33. (1) A definitive safeguard measure shall be applied
for a period of not more than four years, including the period
of application of any provisional measure, unless it is
extended under the provisions of section 36.
(2) The total duration of the period of application of a
definitive safeguard measure, including the period of
application of any provisional measure, the period of initial
application and any extension thereof under section 36, shall
not exceed a period of ten years.
34. A definitive safeguard measure whose period of
application exceeds a period of one year, shall be
progressively liberalized at regular intervals during the
period of its application, in accordance with the notice
published regarding application of a definitive safeguard
measure under section 29.
35. (1) Where the duration of a definitive safeguard
measure (including the period of application of any
provisional measure) exceeds three years, not later than the
mid-term of the period of application of such measure, the
Director-General shall review the situation, including a
review of the effects of the definitive safeguard measure on
the domestic industry concerned, and of the industry’s
progress in implementing its adjustment plan.
(2)  The provisions of sections 11 to 19 of this Act shall
apply mutatis mutandis in respect of such review.
Duration of a
definitive
safeguard
measure.
Progressive
liberalization.
Review.

<!-- page 28 -->

27Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
(3)  The result of the review shall be published in a report
prepared by the Director-General and he shall thereafter
forward such report to the Committee to make its
recommendations as to whether to maintain or withdraw the
definitive safeguard measure or to increase the pace of its
liberalization.
 (4)   A notice to maintain, liberalize or withdraw a
definitive safeguard measure summarizing the results of the
review, shall be published in the Gazette. The contents of
such notice shall conform, mutatis mutandis,  to the
requirements specified in respect of the notice regarding
application of a definitive safeguard measure provided for
in section 29.
36. (1) Where the domestic industry considers that there
is a continuing need to apply a definitive safeguard measure
beyond the initial period of its application, it shall submit a
written request for extension of the measure, including
evidence of the industry’s adjustment plan, to the Director-
General, not less than a period of six months before the end
of that period.
(2) The Director-General shall conduct an investigation
to determine whether an extension is warranted, and for the
purpose of such investigation and determination, the
procedures set forth in this Act for applying the original
measure shall mutatis mutandis be followed.
(3) Subject to the provisions of section 33, a safeguard
measure may be extended only once.
(4) The Director-General may recommend the extension
of a definitive safeguard measure, only where he determines
through an investigation referred to subsection (2), that the
definitive safeguard measure continues to be necessary to
prevent or remedy serious injury, and that there is evidence
that the domestic industry is adjusting.
Extension of a
definitive
safeguard
measure.

<!-- page 29 -->

28 Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
(5) The Director-General shall submit his
recommendations to the Committee within a period of ten
working days, and the Committee may within a period of
ten working days of the receipt of the same, recommend to
the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance through the
Minister, the extension of a definitive safeguard measure,
where it determines that –
(a) the safeguard measures continues to be
necessary to prevent or remedy  serious injury;
and
(b) there is evidence that the domestic industry is
adjusting.
(6) Where the Committee recommends the extension of a
definitive safeguard measure, the Minister in charge of the
subject of Finance in consultation with the Minister shall,
within a period of fourteen working days of the receipt of
the recommendation of the Committee taking into
consideration the interest of the national economy, determine
whether or not to extend such safeguard measure.
(7) An extended definitive safeguard measure shall not
be more restrictive than it was at the end of the initial period
of application.
(8) During an extension period, a safeguard measure shall
continue to be progressively liberalized in accordance with
a notice published to extend a definitive safeguard measure.
Such notice shall conform mutatis mutandis to the
requirements in respect of the notice applying a definitive
safeguard measure, provided for in section 29.
37. (1) Information gathered by any person in the course
of an investigation conducted under this Act or thereafter,
which is entitled to be treated as confidential information
under section 16, shall not be disclosed by such person unless
required  or authorized to do so under the provisions of this
Act.
Confidential
information not
to be disclosed.

<!-- page 30 -->

29Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
(2)  Any person who in contravention of the provisions of
subsection (1) discloses any confidential information as
referred to therein, shall be guilty of an offence and be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding rupees one hundred
thousand or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one
year or to both such fine and imprisonment.
38. Any party who participated in or who had an interest
in an investigation or review procedure under this Act, may
seek judicial review in terms of Article 140 of the
Constitution.
39. (1) The Director-General may delegate any of his
functions and powers under this Act to any officer not below
the rank of Deputy Director of Commerce.
(2)  An officer to whom any function or power is delegated
under subsection (1), shall discharge or exercise such
function or power, subject to such directions as may be given
by the Director-General.
(3)  The Director-General shall, notwithstanding any
delegation made under subsection (1), have the right to
discharge or exercise any function or power so delegated.
40. (1)   The Minister may make regulations in respect
of all matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in
respect of  which regulations are authorized to be made.
(2)   Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette, and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.
(3)  Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is not
so approved shall be rescinded as from the date of such
disapproval, but without prejudice to anything previously
done thereunder.
Judicial review.
Delegation by
the Director-
General.
Regulations.

<!-- page 31 -->

30 Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
(4)  Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be rescinded shall be published in  Gazette.
41. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires –
“country” includes Members of the World Trade
Organization or any other country or autonomous
customs territory;
“directly competitive product” means domestic product
similar to or serving as a substitute for the product
subject to investigation;
“domestic industry” means the producers as a whole of
products which are like or directly competitive with
the investigated product operating within the
territory of Sri Lanka, or those producers operating
within the territory of Sri Lanka whose collective
output of  like or directly competitive products
constitutes a major proportion of the total domestic
production of those products;
“increased quantity” includes increase in import whether
in absolute terms or relative to domestic production;
 “ interested parties” means –
(a) an exporter and foreign producer of the
investigated product;
(b) an importer of the investigated product;
(c) trade or business associations, a majority of
the members of which are producers, exporters
or importers of the investigated product;
(d) the government of an exporting country or
countries;
(e) producers of the domestic like or directly
competitive products in Sri Lanka;
Interpretation.

<!-- page 32 -->

31Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
(f) trade and business associations, a majority of
the members of which are producers of the
domestic like or directly competitive
products in Sri Lanka;
(g) labour unions or other organizations
representing the interests of workers in the
domestic industry;
(h) consumer associations;
(i) industrial users of the investigated product;
and
(j) any other natural or legal person as
determined by the Director-General to have a
sufficient interest in the outcome of an
investigation;
“investigated product” means an imported product
subject to safeguard investigation under this Act as
described in the notice of initiation;
“like products” means domestic products which are
identical or alike in all respects to the product
subject to investigation or, in the absence of such
products, another product that although not alike
in all respect have the same physical, technical or
chemical characteristics closely resembling the
product under investigation;
“Member” means Member of the World Trade
Organization;
“Minister” means the Minister in charge of the subject of
Trade;
“participating interested parties” means those interested
parties that have indicated their interest in
participating in an investigation, in accordance with
the provisions of section 11 of this Act;

<!-- page 33 -->

32 Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
“serious injury” means a significant overall impairment
in the position of a domestic industry; and
“threat of serious injury” means a serious injury that is
clearly imminent.
42. In the case of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.

<!-- page 34 -->

33Safeguard Measures Act, No. 3 of 2018
English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “P RAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.