

<!-- page 1 -->

577 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.22
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2007
577
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 580
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 582
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29th June, 2007, should reach the Government Press on
or before 12 noon on 15th June, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1 ,503 _ 2007 °Œ¾ł 22 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .06.22
No. 1,503 – FRIDAY ,  JUNE  22, 2007
N.B.— Part I:III of the Gazette No. 1,502 of  15.06.2007 was not published.
Quarterly statement of Books for Oct. - December 2002, has been published in part V of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.22
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2007
578
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

579 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.22
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2007
Rules And Instructions For Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi)You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
B 2 - B 79503

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.22
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2007
580
Posts - Vacant
POST  OF  PSYCHIATRIC  SOCIAL  WORKER  IN  THE
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTHCARE  AND  NUTRITION
APPLICATIONS are invited for the post of Psychiatric Social
Workers in the Ministry of Heathcare and Nutrition. Applications
prepared as per form of specimen appended to this letter should be
sent under registered cover to reach the Secretary, Ministry of
Healthcare and Nutrition, “Suwasiripaya”, No. 385, Ven. Baddegama
Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo10 on or before 30.07.2007.
The words “Post of Psychiatric Social Worker in the Ministry of
Healthcare and Nutrition” should be written on the top left corner of
the envelope enclosing applications.
2. Annual Salary Scale.– Rs. 15,785 - 10 x 290 - 15 x 325 -
11 x 400 - Rs. 27,960 In terms of P.A. Cir. No. 06/2006 (MN 5-2006).
3. Age.– Age should be not less than 18 and not more than 40
years. The maximum age limit will not apply for those who are
already in the Public Service/Provisional Public Service.
4. Educational Qualifications :
(a) Possess a Special Degree from a recognized university on
Sociology or Social Anthropology or Psychology ; or
(b) A degree from an approved School of Social Work of tertiary
level on social work ; or
(c) A two years Diploma from a similar school of social work
with two years experience in the field of social work.
5. Method of Recruitment.– Appointments will be made based on
the merit order of a competitive written examination.
6. Terms of Engagement.– The post is permanent and Pensionable
and the employee should contribute to the Widows/Widowers and
Orphans Pensions Scheme.
7. Service Conditions :
(1) Period of probation is 3 years.
(2) Section 10-12 in Chapter 11 of the Establishments Code
will apply.
The persons so recruited to the post should succesfully complete
training on Psychiatric works conducted by the National Social
Development Institution for a period not less than three months
during the first year of appointment and pass the examination held at
the end of the training. The service of those persons whose work and
conduct is unsatisfactory during the period of training and who fail
in the examination is liable to be terminated.
8.  The attention of the applicant is invited to the conditions
published in Section (IIA of the Part 1 of this Gazette regarding the
appointment to the posts in the Public Service.
9. Applications of those who are already in the Public Service
should be submitted through the relevant heads of institutions.
10. Applications will not be acknowledged. Applications which
do not conform to the requirements of this notice in every manner
will be rejected.
By orders of Public Service Commission,
Dr. H.A.P. K
AHANDALIYANAGE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition,
“Suwasiripaya”,
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
06th June, 2007.
Specimen Form of Applications for the Post of Psychiatric
Social Worker in the Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition
01. (a) Name with Initials :—————.
(b) Names denoted by initials :—————.
02. Address :-
(a) Personal :—————.
(b) Official :—————.
(Officers employed in the Public Provincial Public Service/
Corporations should mention their official address and any change
of it should be notified immediately.)
03. ( a) Date of Birth : ——————.
(b) Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years :———, Months :————, Days :————.
04. Sex :—————.
05. Civil Status :—————.
06. Educational Qualifications :—————.
07. Experience :——————.
Work Station :—————.    Period of Service :—————.
From  :——–—.  To :————.
08. Particulars of the present employment :
(a) Designation : ——————.
(b) Department/Institute : ——————.
(c) Date of appointment : ——————.
(d) Where permanent/temporary/pensionable/non
pensionable :—————.
(e) Whether confirmed in the post :——————.
(f) Salary Scale and the present salary :——————.

<!-- page 5 -->

581 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.22
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2007
09. Other qualifications : ——————.
I hereby affirm that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am aware that I will be disqualified
and dismissed without compensation if any information contained
herein is found to be false or incorrect after the appointment.
——————,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :——————.
10. Recommendations of the Head of the Department :
——————,
Signature and the official seal of the
Head of the Department.
06-475
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths –
Ratnapura District
APPLICA TIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages,
Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
02.Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births,
Deaths and Marriage Registration Divisions and should be entitled
to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in
the area.
03.Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04.Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more
than 60 years of age.
05.Applicants should be married.
06.Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could
be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such as District
Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries
Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development Societies and
Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07.Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District
Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District Registries.
Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given
in the Schedule on or before 15th August, 2007.
L. K. R
ATHNASIRI ,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 280, Main Street,
Colombo 11,
29th May, 2007.
THE SCHEDULE
District Division of the The Division and the The Address to
Divisional Post for which which Applications,
Secretary Applications are must be sent
called
01. Ratnapura Ratnapura Post of Registrar of Marriage District Secretary/Addl.
(Kandyan and General) in Kuruwita   Registrar General,
Korale Division and Birth and Death in   District Secretariat,
Gileemale South Division   Ratnapura
02. Ratnapura Embilipitiya Post of Registrar of Marriage  do.
(Kandyan and General) in Atakalan
Korale Division and Birth and Death   
in Pallebedda Division   
03. Ratnapura Kolonna Post of Registrar of Marriage  do.
(Kandyan and General) in Kolonna Korale   
Divison and Birth and Death in   
Kempane Division   
06-384

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.22
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2007
582
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS  IN
CLASS  II  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS’
SERVICE – 2007 (I)
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination for the
Officers in Class II of Public Management Assistants’ Service will
be held by the Commissioner-General of Examinations in the month
of October, 2007 as per provisions of Para. 5.2 of the approved
Service Minute of Public Management Assistants’ Service published
in the Government Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka bearing No. 1,372/23 dated 24.12.2004.
2.0 This examination for Officers in Class II of the Public
Management Assistants’ Service will be held in Colombo, Galle,
Kandy, Jaffna, Batticaloa, Matara, Kurunegala, Rathnapura, Badulla
and Anuradhapura. The list of relevant town and town numbers are
given below. The Commissioner-General of Examinations reserves
the right to cancel any center due to insufficiency of candidates or
any other reason and decide an alternative considering the candidate’s
preference of towns :
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Galle 02
Kandy 03
Jaffna 04
Batticaloa 05
Matara 06
Kurunegala 07
Rathnapura 08
Badulla 09
Anuradhapura 10
3.0 (i) This examination will be conducted by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations and the candidates will be
bound by the rules and regulations imposed by him.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been separately
printed in the Gazette Notification. Candidates will be subjected to
any punishment imposed by the Commissioner-General of
Examinations for violation of these rules and regulations.
4.0  Eligibility.– Officers who have been appointed to posts in
Class II of Public Management Assistants’ Service are eligible to
appear for this examination.
5.0 The application for this examination should be in the form of
the specimen appended to this notification and should be prepared
by the candidate him/herself. Applications should be sent by the
registered post through the respective Heads of Departments to
reach the Commissioner-General of Examinations, Department of
Examinations, Organization and Foreign Exams Branch, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla, on or before 23.07.2007. The name of the examination
should be indicated at the top left hand corner of the envelope
containing the application. Applications received after the closing
date will be rejected. Incomplete applications, too, will not be
accepted.
6.0 Identity of the Candidates.– Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of the
following documents should be submitted to the supervisor:
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid Passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above
mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner-General of Examinations.
7.0 Applications.-Applications should be prepared in a paper of
A4 size in such a manner that para. Nos. 01 to 05 appear on the first
page. The application could be typewritten but it should be filled in
correctly and legibly by candidates own handwriting.
The  candidates appearing for the examination for the first time
need not pay examination fees. However, stamps to the value of
Rs. 90 should be affixed for the whole examination for subsequent
sittings and stamps to the value of Rs.50 should be affixed if only
one subject is offered. The stamps should be duly cancelled by
placing signature of the candidate and the date. Under any
circumstances, the fees will not be refunded or transferred in respect
of any other examination.
8.0 The Commissioner– General of Examinations will issue copies
of the time table and admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been accepted. Candidates should get their signature
on the admission card attested in advance and surrender to the
supervisor of the examination hall. Candidates without admission
cards will not be permitted to sit for the examination. If a candidate
has not received his/her admission card at least seven (07) days
before the day of examination,  he/she should without delay inform
the Commissioner General of Examinations, Organizations and
Foreign Examination Branch, Department of Examinations,
Battaramulla (Telegraphic Address : “Exams”, Battaramulla) about
the non-receipt of admission card along with the following
information :
(i) Name of the Examination ;
(ii)Full Name of the Candidate ;
(iii)Full Postal Address ;
(iv) Post Office, Registration Number and the Date of Dispatch.
9.0 The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner General of Examinations to enable them to appear for
the examination. No travelling expenses will be paid.
10.0 Candidates should answer both question papers in the
language medium in which they sat for the entry examination to the
relevant service or in an official language. In case of candidates who

<!-- page 7 -->

583 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.22
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2007
entered the service without a Competitive Examination, both papers
should be answered in the language medium of their education or in
an official language.
11.0  Officers may appear separately for each subject at different
occasions at their discretion.
12.0  For the purpose of the official language policy, all officers
should prepare and fill the application forms in the official language.
13.0  The Commissioner-General of Examination will release the
results of the examination to the Director General of Combined
Services and the lists of names of the candidates who have passed
the exam will be published in the Government Gazette of Democratic
Socialists Republic of Sri Lanka.
14.0  Examination Procedure.-Candidates should sit for a written
examination which will consist of the following subjects :
Subjects Marks Duration Subject
No.
01. Office systems and procedure 100 02 Hrs. 01
02. Accounting systems adopted in
the Government offices 100 02 Hrs. 02
–––
Total 200
14.1 Office Systems and Procedure :
This paper is intended to test the candidates knowledge of
office systems adopted in government offices and his/her
ability of practical application of the knowledge. This
paper consists of two parts.
Part I - A paper of multiple choice questions, duration is 30
minutes, 25 marks.
Part II - A paper of semi-structured type questions, 03 out of 04
questions should be answered duration is 90 minutes, 75
marks.
14.2 Accounting Systems of adopted in government offices:
Candidates knowledge in Accounting Systems adopted in
government office, books  and records controlling Accounts
and orders and instructions of the Treasury issued in
relation to that and his/her ability of practical application
of the knowledge will be tested. This paper consists of
two parts.
Part I - A paper of multiple choice questions, duration is 30
minutes, 25 marks.
Part II - A paper of semi-structured type questions, 03 out of 04
questions should be answered, duration is 90 minutes, 75
marks.
Officers may appear separately for each subject at different
occasions at their discretion. However, they should score at least
40% of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass. (For
further details, refer to para 5:2 of Public Management Assistants'
Service Minute.)
15.0  The decision of the Director General of Combined Services
will be final, regarding any matter not provided for in this notification.
A. N
OBERT ,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration,
  and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
04th June, 2007.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
E
FFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS  IN CLASS  II OF  PUBLIC
M ANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS ’ SERVICE  – 2007 (I)
Serial No.
(for Office use only)
(Indicate the name and the number      Town       Town No.
of the town, in which you wish to
sit for the examination as per 1.
para 02 of the gazette notification) 2.
Medium of examination
Write the relevant number in the cage
(Sinhala-2, Tamil-3, English-4)
01. 1.1 Name with initials : Mr./Miss/Mrs. ————.
(In Capital Letters)
Eg : Mr./Miss/Mrs.
 SILV A M. A.
1.2 Name with initials :—————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 Names denoted by initials. ————.
(In Capital Letters)
1.4 Names denoted by initials. ————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.0 Place of work and address :
2.1 Name   and   Address   of   the   Office/Department/
Institution (In English Capital Letters) :————.
2.2 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution
(In Sinhala/Tamil) :————.
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent (In
Capital Letters) :————.
3.0 Sex:-
Female - 1, Male - 0,
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage).
4.0 National Identity Card No :

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.22
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2007
584
5.0 Subject/s you offer on this sitting :
Subject Subject No.
6.0 Present Post :
6.1 Post :————.
6.2 Number of the letter of appointment :————.
6.3 Date of entry in to Class II of Public Management Assistants'
Service :————.
7.0 7.1 Are  you sitting the examination for the first time ? :——.
7.2 If not, value of the stamps affixed :————.
7.3 Stamp Cage :
Stamp to the value of Rs. 90 for whole
Examination and Rs. 50 for each subject.
Note.-The candidates should  affix stamps to the relevant value
and cancel them by placing their signature and date. Stamps should
not overlap each other.
I declare that the above particulars are true and that I am eligible
to appear for the examination in the language medium indicated above.
I also certify that the Rs. ................................... stamps affixed here
to are genuine and have not been used before. Further I agree to be
bound by the rules and regulations of the examinations act and also
to the decision taken by the Commissioner-General of the
examinations regarding this examination.
————————,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :—————.
Note.– The candidate should sign in the presence of the Head of
his/her Department/Institution or an officer authorized to sign on
behalf of such Head of Department.
Attestation of the Signature
I certify that..........................................who is an officer in my
office and who is known to me personally placed his/her signature in
my presence this........................day of ...................................
———————,
Signature and official stamp of the person attesting.
Name :—————.
Designation :—————.
Address :—————.
Date :——————.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I, certify that –
(i) The particulars furnished by the candidate have been
examined ;
(ii)The officer has *appeared/not appeared for the examination
earlier ;
(iii)*He/she has affixed stamps to the value of Rs. ...............since
*he/she has appeared for the examination ; and
(iv) The candidate is eligible to sit the examination.
——————,
Signature and official stamp of the
Head of the Department.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :——————.
Date :——————.
*(Delete inapplicable words)
06-481
MINISTRY  OF  DEFENCE,  PUBLIC  SECURITY,
LAW  AND  ORDER
National Cadet Corps
COMPETITIVE Examination to Recruit English Teachers to Serve
in Remote Schools coming under the Purview of Provincial Councils
and to be commissioned under the National Cadet Corps as
Probationary Officers - 2006.
The Gazette Notification No. 1,469 published on 27.10.2006 by
the Director National Cadet Corps calling applications for the above
mentioned examination is hereby cancelled.
Director,
National Cadet Corps.
National Cadet Corps,
No. 15, Dutugemunu Street,
Pamankada,
Dehiwala,
07th June, 2007.
06–480
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.