

<!-- page 1 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .10.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2007
1161
1161
¡â¤ 1 ,520 _ 2007  §¤àï”åà´Ú 19 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .10.19
No. 1,520 – FRIDAY ,  OCTOBER 19, 2007
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1164
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1164
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 26th October, 2007 should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 12th October, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .10.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2007
1162
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .10.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2007
1163
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .10.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2007
1164
Posts - Vacant
POST  OF  MEDICAL  REGISTRAR  OF  BIRTHS  MARRIAGE  AND  DEATH  OF  THE  REGISTRA  GENERAL’S
DEPARTMENT – KANDY  DISTRICT
Notice of Cancellation
CALLING for applications for the following Divisions which appeared in the Notices of calling for applications for the posts of Birth,
Marriage and Death Registrars in the Kandy District is cancelled hereby for implementation of New scheme of recruitment.
District Divisional Post and Division for which Number and date
Secretariat Division applications were called of Gazette
Kandy Pathadumbara Post of Registrar of Births 1400 date of 01.07.2005
and Deaths in Pallegampaha
East and Marriages in
Pathadumbara
10-477
PROMOTION  TO  CLASS  I  IN  SRI  LANKA  PRINCIPAL'S  SERVICE  ON  MERIT  AND  SENIORITY - 2007
Amendment
IT is hereby notified that the last date for acceptance of applications indicated in the Notification published relating to the above on
07.09.2007 bearing No. 1514 is extended up to 26.10.2007.
A RIYARATNE  HEWAGE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
4th October, 2007,
Minsitry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla.
10-690
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
DEPARTMENT  OF  IRRIGATION  MINISTRY OF
IRRIGATION  AND  WATER  MANAGEMENT
POST OF WORK SUPERVISOR IN CLASS II “B” OF SRI
LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE
APPLICATIONS are hereby called for filling of vacancies in the post
of work supervisor in class II “B” of Sri Lanka Technological service
in the Department of Irrigation.
02. Applications that should be prepared in accordance with the
specimen application form attached herewith, should be sent by
registered post to reach the Director General of Irrigation, No.230,
Bauddhaloka Mawatha, Colombo 07. On or before 30.11.2007.
The word “Posts of Work Supervisor” should be indicated on the
top left corner of the envelope in which the application is enclosed.
Applications that are received after the closing date of applications
will be rejected.
03. Salary:– Monthly consolidated salary for this post after
successful completion of the training period will be Rs.14,140 -
10 x140 -11x150 - 6 x210-14 x 290 -Rs. 22,510
(Officers are required to pass 1st Efficiency Bar before reaching
third salary step)
Monthly salary during the training period will be Rs.12,920-
1 x 120 -13,040

<!-- page 5 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .10.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2007
1165
04. Educational and other qualifications :
(a) Candidate, Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka and be in good
health.
(b) Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 45
years of age as at 30.11.2007. (However the  maximum
age limit will not be applicable for those who are already in
provincial and central government services)
(c) Should be of excellent character
(d) (I) In the case of external candidates.– Basic Educational
Qualifications for recruitment to training grade, candidates
should have possessed following qualifications.
I.I Should have passed six subjects on G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination in no more than two sittings with credit
passes to Language or Literature, Mathematics,
Science and any other  subject, and G. C. E. (A/L)
examination in one sitting in science stream with
Pure Mathematics/Applies Mathematics/Combined
Mathematics and Pysics;
; or
I.II Shoul have possessed the relevant certificate after
successfully completely, the National Certificate in
Technology in (Three year part time course) or one
year full time training course of draftsmanship with
basic educational qualifications mentioned above.
(II)In the case of internal candidates.– Candidates who have
passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects in no
more than two sittings with credit passes to language or
Literature, Mathematics and Science and ten years
experience in the relevant field;
; or
Employees in the department who have possessed
Technological qualifications precribed in Para I:II above
and 5 years experience in the relevant field will be
recruited to the  training grade on the results of a depart-
mental examination. For this purpose, Candidates should
have completed a minimum satisfactory service of five
years in class I Grade II of skilled labor grades.
Note :
In the case of candidates who are qualified to be recruited to
training grade in Technological service on the result of open competitive
examination :-
(i) Candidates who are with the qualifications prescribed in Para
4 (C) 1.1 will be appointed to class II  “B” of the service on
successful completion of two years theoretical and  practical
training in accordance with the syllabus prescribed for the
service, and on passing relevant examination.
(ii)Candidates who are with the qualifications prescribed in Para
4(C) 1.11 will be appointed to class  II “B” of the service on
successful completion of one year theoretical and practical
training in accordance with the syllabus prescribed for  the
service, and on passing relevant examination.
(iii) In the case of special services where a training period of more
than two years is required, recruitment will be made to class II
“B” at the end of the training on the basics of granting salary
increment for each such additional year of training, as a special
consideration for the additional training. Further  such additional
period of training will be counted for the period prescribed for
promotion to class II “B”.
(iv) In the case of an apprentice who failed the examination held at
the end of the training  indicated in (i) and (ii) above, such
candidate will have an opportunity for an extension of training
period not exceeding 6 months. However services of those
who fail the examination held at the end of such extended
training  will be terminated.
05. Method  of recruitment to the service :
5.1 Appointment will be made on the result of the professional
test conducted in terms of Public Administration circular
15/90 and allied Public Administration circulars issued in
respect of Ethnic ratio and merit, and  subject to the
provisions laid down in the Establishments Code.
5.2 (a) 70% of the vacancies of class II “B” which is the
recruitment class will be filled from external
candidates and remaining 30% will be filled from
qualified employees of the department on the result
of a competitive examination.
(b) However, only at the instances where candidates
with basic educational qualification prescribed in
clause 4(d)(II) above are not found in departments,
the remaining number of vacancies will be filled
from external candidates selected  at the open
competitive examination.
5.3 External candidates :-
For this purpose, applications will be called by a notification
published in the Government Gazette/News papers, and
selections will be made by calling candidates who secure
highest marks at the examination, for an interview.
However, such interview will be held purely for the
verification of qualifications of the candidates and no marks
will be allocated at the interview. Candidates are required
to secure at least 40% of marks allocated for each question
paper to be eligible for the appointment.
5.4 Internal candidates :
For this purpose, applications will be called by an internal
notification published by the Department and selection
will be made by calling candidates who secure highest
marks at the examination, for an interview. However,
such interview will be held purely for the verification, of
qualification of the candidate and no marks will be
allocated at the interview. Candidates are required to secure
at least 35% of marks allocated for each question paper to
be eligible for the appointment.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .10.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2007
1166
Note :-
(i) Candidates out of employees of the department who
are selected to training grade on the results of an
examination held by the department will be attached
to class II “B” of Sri Lanka Technological Service
on successful completion of one year training and
on passing the examination held by the department.
(ii) In the training grade, these officers should further
remain in the previous salary scale and they will be
paid an annual allowance equivalent to the 1st salary
increment of the recruitment grade of Sri Lanka
Technological Service in addition to their salaries,
until they pass the examination held by the
department at the end of the training period. Those
who possess a satisfactory service in training grade
will be placed at the higher step in the same salary
scale in the second year and the allowance will also
be continued. On successful completes of the
examination, their salary will be converted according
to the provisions of Establishment Code revised by
Public Administration Circular 07/2000 dated
02.03.2000.
(iii) An apprentice who fail the examination held at the
end of relevant training  will have the opportunity to
get the training period extented for another period
not exceeding six months. However, those who fail
the examination held  at the end of such extended
training will be reverted to their former post.
5.5 The competitive examination for all internal and external
candidates will comprise of :
Subjects Time Marks
1. Intelligent Test 1 hours 100
2. Technological part I - 2 1/2 hours 100
Mathematics
3. Technological part II - 2 1/2 hours 100
Physic
06. Terms and conditions for engagement in service :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionalbe and the officers
should make contributions to widows/widowers and
orphans pension scheme.
07. Service conditions.
(i) Probation period will be 03 years
(ii)Provisions in Para 10 to 12 in chapter II of Establishment
code will also be applicable.
08. Application should be forwarded along with the copies of
following certificates.
(i) G. C. E. (O/L) certificate, G. C. E. (A/L) certificate and
Technological certificates.
(ii)Certificate of birth issued by the Registrar general.
(Certificate of baptismal issued for the purpose of code of
education will not be accepted)
(iii) Three character certificates obtained recently. (One of these
certificates should be  obtained form the principal of the
school where the candidate studied at last. Another certificate
should be obtained from the Grama Niladari of the
candidate’s place of residence.)
Note.– Copies of cerficates submitted will not be returned.
09. Applications of candidates in Central government, provincial
Council and statutory institutions should be forwarded through the
respective Head of Department.
10. All candidates are required themselves to sit for the examination
and appear for an interview at a place determined by the Department
of Irrigation, at their own expenses.
11. Candidates are bound to serve at any time in any part of the
Island in an exigency of service. selected candidates will be attached
to remote areas where new projects are proposed to be launched, and
they are bound to service at such places for a minimum period of five
years.
12. If any of the particulars indicated in the application is found to
be false information at any time  prior to the selection, the application
will be rejected. If such thing is revealed after appointment, candidate
is liable for dismissal from service without any compensation.
13. Attention of candidates is drawn to general conditions and
qualifications applicable for appointment to public service, which are
published in Para II (a), Para I of the Gazette notification of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
14. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be dealt
with as determined by the Director General of Irrigation.
Eng. B. M. S. S
AMARASEKARA ,
Director General of Irrigation.
Department of Irrigation,
No.230,
Bauddaloka Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
Telephone No. : 584984
Fax No. : 584984
28th September, 2007.
S
PECIMEN  APPLICATION
MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND WA TER MANAGEMENT
Irrigation Department
POSTS OF WORK SUPERVISOR
CLASS II ‘B’ OF SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE
01. (a) Full name :——.
(b) Name with Initials (In capital letters)  :——.
02. (a) Postal Address  :——.
(b) Permanent Address  :——.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .10.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2007
1167
03. Residence District  :——.
04. Divisional Secretary’s Division  :——.
05. Sex  :——.
06. Medium:          Sinhala                             Tamil
07. Date of Birth (attach a copy of the Birth Certificate)  :——.
(a) Year:–––––.   Month: –––––.     Date  :——.
(b) Place of Birth  :——.
(c) Age as at 30.11.2007  :——.
Years: –––––––.     Months: ––––––.     Days  :—–––—.
08. National Identity card No  :——.
09. Telephone No   :——.
Office: –––––––.    Home: ––––––.   Mobile  : ––––––.
10. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka : Yes/No  :——.
Race : Sinhala Moor Other
Sri Lankan Tamil Burgher
Indian Tamil Malay
11. Educational Qualifications (Attach copies of certificates):–—.
i. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination, give following details  :––—.
Year: ––––––.
Index No : –––––––.
Subjects (Indicate whether, Distinction, Very Good Pass, Credit,
or Oridinary pass)
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
Distinctions  :——.
Very Good Passes  :——.
Credits  :——.
Ordinary Passes  :——.
Total  :——.
II. G. C. E. (A/L) Examination, give following details :
Year : –––––––––.
Index No : ––––––––.
Subjects (Indicate whether, Distinction, Very Good Pass, Credit,
or Oridinary pass)
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 2.
3. 4.
12. Technical qualifications : from an Institution approved by the
Ministry of Higher Education as specified in the Gazzete No. 1094/2
of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, dated 23.08.1999.
Please give the name of the course and Technical College. (attach
copies of certificate.)
13. Experience in the relevant field :
Institute Post Period of Ser vice
(i)
(ii)
14. If you have served in a Government Department or State
Corporation previously, indicate why you have resigned/left service
been discontinued/been dismissed.
15. If employed at present give details
(a) Post :
(b) Institution :
(c) Date of Appointment :
(d) Nature of Appointment :
(e) If you are a public sector employee, Do you have a
satisfactory service :
16. If convicted of an offence and is convicted on a court order.
Indicate the offence for which convicted and the charge.
17. Names, positions and addresses of 03 persons from whom
character certificate are obtained.
18. I certify that the details given above are true and correct. I am
also aware that if false or incorrect information is contained in the
above application it is a disqualification for selection, and if it is
revealed after recruitment it is enough to terminate the job without any
compensation.
—––––––––––—,
Signature of Applicant.
Date  :——.
Recommendation of the Head of Department/Corporation/Institution
I hereby certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss......... is an employee of this
Department/Corporation/Institution and his/her work and conduct is
satisfactory and conform to the requirments and conditions set out for
apply to this post. I further state that he/she could be/could not be
released if selected.
—––––––––––—,
Signature of the Head of Department/
Corporation/Institution/Authrised Officer
(Official Stamp)
Name  :——.
Designation :——.
Address  :——.
Date  :——.
10-561

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .10.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2007
1168
DEPARTMENT  OF  EXAMINATIONS - SRI LANKA
Final Certificate Examination for Ahadhiya/Al-Quaran
Schools on Islamic Studies - 2007
(Equalant to Certificate of Final Examination of Dham Pasala)
1. Rules and Regulations :– The above Examination will be held
by the Commissioner General of Examinations. The Examination for
2007 will be held in the month of February, 2008. Subjects and the
syllabus for the examination are given in Annexure I.
2. Centers of  Examination :– Examination Centers are indicated
in Annexure II of this notification. These Centres are subjected for
cancellation if required number of candidates are not applied. In case
of such cancellation of any center the candidates will be offered the
nearest center to sit the examination.
3. Language Medium :– This Examination will be conducted in
Tamil, Sinahala and English languages, However a candidate should
appear for all the subjects for one and the same language.
4. Eligibility :–  Every applicant who applies for this Examination
should have fulfilled at least one of the following requirements.
4.1 Should be a student in Grade 10 or Grade 11 in an Ahadhiya
School registered in the Department of Muslim Religous
and Cultural Affairs.
; or
4.2 Should be a student who has completed the senior grade
Al - Quaran Madrasa Syllabus approved by the Department
of Muslim Religious and Cultural Affairs ;
; or
4.3 Should be a student who has passed the subjects of Islam
and Arabic in the G.C.E (O/L)  Examination conducted by
the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka.
Notes :
(i) Applications for this Examination should be certified by
the Principal of the Ahadhiya School or by the Principal of
the Al-Quran Madrasa or by the Principal of School to the
effect that the candidate has fulfilled the requirements made
paragraph 4 above.
(ii) An applicant can submit application for this Examination
only through the Principal of Ahadhiya School, the Principal
of Senior A1 - Quaran Madresa or the Principal of the
school.
5. In the event of any registered Ahadhiya School or Senior Quran
Madrasa or Schools not receiving the application forms and
instructions by post in time the Principal concerned should contact
the —
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta,. Battaramulla.
on or before 2nd November, 2007.
5.1 All applications should be prepared in duplicate. The
original should be forwarded to the Department of
Examinations while the duplicate should be filed in the
relevant Institution.
5.2 The closing date of applications is 16th November, 2007.
5.3 Applications should be clearly and legibly filled in.
Applications which are not filled accordingly and
applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
5.4 Duly perfected applications should be sent under registered
cover to
the — Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta,. Battaramulla.
(Applications will not be acknowledged).
5.5 The top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing with the
application should have the name of the Exam  “Ahadhiya/
Quran Madrasa Final Certificate Exam – 2007” and the
Center of  the choice written clearly.
5.6 No documents should be annexed to the application. The
Principals of the Institutions should certify to the effect
that the applicant holds the prescribed qualifications.
6. The Examination fee is Rs. 60. No Examination fee will be charged
from those who sit this examination for the first time.
6.1  Mode of payment :– Examination fees to be paid at a post
office and the receipt obtained be affixed on to the application.
7. Admission Cards :– Commissioner General of Examination shall
issue the Admission Cards through the relevant Principal of the
Institution.
7.1 In the event of any applicant failing to produce his Admission
Card on the first day of this appearing for the examination
to the supervisor of the Examination Hall or attempting to
enter an Examination Centre other than the center allocated
to him/her by the Commissioner General of Examinations,
action will be taken to cancel his/her candidature.
7.2 The specimen signature of the candidate should be attested
by the Principal of relevant institutions or by an officer in
the permanent service drawing a salary with less than
237,060 p.a. Islamic Priest of Mosque.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .10.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2007
1169
7.3 An admission Card in not received at least 7 days before the
date of commencement of the examination the Principal of
the School concerned should notify the Commissioner
General of Examination accordingly. In all such instances,
information should be provided as indicated below.
(a) Name of Examination ;
(b) Name of Ahadhiya School/Madrasa/School ;
(c ) Name of Canidate in full and Address :
(d) Examination Center applied for ;
(e) Post Office from which the application was posted ;
(f) Registration number and Date.
8. Establishment of the Identity :– Every applicant should establish
his/her identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor on all instance
he appears for the examination. For this purpose any  one of the
following documents will be accepted.
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner,
Department of Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid Passport ;
9. Issue of the Examination Results and Confirmation of the Result :
9.1 This Examination consists of four papers and a student
obtains passes in all four papers in one and the same sitting
will be considered those having passed the Examination.
9.2 However, if a candidate gets passed in 3 subjects and fails
to get through in the fourth subject in one and the same
sitting he/she will be allowed referral.
Such a candidate should get through that subject within the
subsequent 3 Examinations to be considered passed in this
certificate Examination.
  9.3 Release of the Results :
 Details of Examination results will be posted to the relevant
Heads of Institutions.
10. Certificates :
Action will be taken to issue a Cetificate to every candidate
passing the Examination.
11. Re - scrutiny of answer - scripts :
Opportunities will be provided for the re-scrutiny of answer -
scripts on payment of a fee and such applications are made within
30 days from the date of issue of Examinations results through the
respective Heads of Institutions by using the form issued by this
Department for this purpose.
Such fee will be refunded only in instances where any alteration
in made in the Examination results. Applicants or their representatives
will not be granted permission to examine the answer scripts for any
reason what - so - ever.
12. All  applicants are bound to act in accordance with the above
conditions and any matters not covered under this notification will
be decided by the Commissioner General of Examination at his
discretion.
A
NURA  EDIRISINGHE ,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla,
05th October, 2007.
Annexure 1
Subjects and the Syllabus prescribed for the Examination.  There
will be four question papers, each question paper will for the duration
of three hours.
First Paper
1. Aqeedha, Shareeah and Arabic Language (Fundamentals in
Islam and Arabic Language)
1.1 Aqeedha - General clarifications (All Ilahiiyath,
Annubuwath, Arroohaniyyath and Assamiyyath)
1.2 Sections of Aqeedha
* Ahlussunnah Wel Jamath Aqeeda
* Several other sections : Jabariya Kadariyya, Murjiya,
Mutazila and Sheeah
1.3 Tawheedh and Shirk
* Iman and Kufr
* Riddath, Nifak
* History of Wahi
* Utilization of Al- Quaran as a legal Principle
* Sunna and it’s collection
* Utilization of Sunna as legal Principle
* History of Hadees and the contribution of Muhaddis
*  Details relating to Ijthihad
* Ijma as a support principle
* Kiyas as  support principle
* History of Fikhu and its Imams
1.4 Arabic Language
* Writing with proper shaping
* Writing of Sentence
* Writing of Arabic words relating to the subject of Islam
* Writing of Quran sentence and Hathees.
2 Al - Fiqhul Islami (Islamic Law)
2.1 Details Relating to Ibadath :
* Kinds of Ibathath
* Thaharath

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .10.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2007
1170
 2.2 Najees and its categories :
* Methods of cleaning Najees
* Water and its categories
* Wulu, Thayammam - Procedures existing relating to bathing
2. 3 Zakath :
* Significance
* Rules and Regulations
* Collection and Distribution
* Minimizing poverty through Zakath and Distribution of
Wealth
2.4 Assawm (Fasting) :
* Significance
* Rules and Regulations
* Usefulness
2.5 Hajj :
* Significance
* Rules and Regulations
* Usefulness
* Hajj - Method of Performance
* Farlu - Wajibu, Sunnath
* Hajj performed in addition to Farlu Hajj
2.6 Attention to be drawn and procedures relating to Food,
Dressings, and Dwelling places in Islam.
2.7 Clarification relating to sacrifice
2.8 Kurbani and slaughtering systems
2.9 Affirmation and V ow
2.10 Details relating to Muamalath :
* Dignity of earning
* Main transactions
* Other transactions (Eg. Lease and Insurance)
* Wakfu, Wasiyiyath, Warasath (Common Property,
  Testamentary Property, Inherited Property)
2.11 Position of man and woman in Islam :
* Marriage Laws in Islam
* Family life in Islam
* Husband and wife
* Rights and duties of parents and Children
* Talaqs Illah
2.12 Jinayath :
* Hudood, Kisas and Tazeer
3.  Seera and Tariqh
3.1 Socio - Religious position in Arabian Society in the period
before Islam
3.1.1 Prophet Mohamed (Sal) :
. Life before the Nubuwwath
  * Family, Generation
  * Youth - hood
  * Noble characteristis
  * Marriage
. Life between Nubuwwath and Hijrath
  * Nubuwwath
  * Propaganda in Islam and its benefits
  * Mihraj
  * Hijrath
. Madina Life
  * Socio - Political activities
  * Self defence wars and Peace  Agreement
  * Last Prophethood
.  Position of Sahabas and their contribution towards Islam
.  History and Political contribution of Kulap Urrashidoon
. Period of rule by Umaiya and Abbasiya
. History of Baitul Mukaddasa
. History and contribution of Sri Lankan Muslims
. Contribution of Muslims to Modern Civilazation
. History relating to the following personalities
  * Imam Buhari (Rah)
 * Imam Shafi (Rah)
  * Imam Gassali (Rah)
  * Imam Abdul Cader Jeelani (Rah)
  * Imam Saduli (Rah)
4.  Aklaq (Islamic Values)
4.1  View point of Islam in Ethics
* Details relating to Aqhlaq
* Relationship between Imam and Aqhlaq
* Relationship between Aqhlaq and Ibadath
  Ihals
4.2 Taqwa
* Warau and Suhud
* Murakaba, Muhasafa
* Shawq
4.3 Charity
* Dedication
* Gratitude
* Tolerance, Discipline, allowing,pardoning
* Politeness
* Time appreciation
* Moral control of organs in the body, mouth, eye, ear and
    sex organs

<!-- page 11 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .10.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2007
1171
* Respecting others
* Justice and honesty
* Important moral values visible among youth
* Integration with other communities
4.4  Islamic Jurisprudence
Annex-02
Names of Cities and their Numbers where Examination Centers will
be Established According to Districts :
Town Town District Town Town District
No. No. No. No.
Colombo District 01 Gampaha District 02
Colombo (Central) 01 Thihariya 03
Bambalapitiya 02 Mabola 04
Malwana 05
Negombo 06
Kalutara District 03 Galle District 04
Panadura 07 G alle 10
Kalutara 08
Aluthgama 09
Matara District 05 Tangalle District 06
Weligama 11 Hambantota 13
Matara 12
Kegalle District 07 Kurunegala District 08
Mawanella 14 Kuliyapitiya 17
Warakapola 15 Kurunegala 18
Kannatota 16 Melsiripura 19
Polgahawela 20
Puttalam District 09 Anuradhapura District 10
Nuraichcholai 21 Anuradhapura 24
Puttalam 22 Kekirawa 25
Chilaw 23 Galenbindunuwewa 26
Polonnaruwa District 11 Matale District 12
Kaduruwewa 27 Matale 28
Kandy District 13 Nuwara Eliya District 14
Kandy 29 Nuwara Eliya 33
Nawalapitiya 30
Deltota 31
Gelioya 32
Ratnapura District 15 Badulla District 16
Eheliyagoda 34 Badulla 36
Balangoda 35 Welimada 37
Monaragala District 17 Ampara District 18
Bibila 38 Akkaraipattu 39
Pottuvil 40
Kalmunai 41
Sammanthurai 42
Batticaloa District 19 Trincomalee District 20
Kattankudy 43 Mutur 46
Eravur 44 Kinniya 47
Valaichchenai 45 Trincomalee 48
Vavuniya District 21 Mannar District 22
V avuniya 49 Mannar 50
Mullativu District 23 Killinochchi District 24
Mullativu 51 Killinochchi 52
Jaffna District 25
Jaffna 53
Annexure - 3
Scheme of Examination : (Examination to be held from 2004). There
will be four question papers Each question paper will for the duration
of three hours.
First Paper - Aqeeda, Sharia and Arabic Language
This question paper is consisting of three parts.
Part 1 - Objective questions (20 marks)
Accurately identify the basic fundamentals of Islam and its
main elements
(a) Arkanul Iman
(b) Explanation to Aqeetha Ah- Kamul Imaan
(c) Al - Quaran
(d) Al - Hathees
Answers should be given for all questions in this part.
(a) To give answers in brief - Ten Questions (10 marks)
(b) Multiple Questions - Five Questions (05 marks)
(c) Filling blanks  - Five Questions (05 Marks)
Part II- Less structured Questions (40 marks)
Thowheed and facts against it - To clearly describe the sub
elements
(a) Thawuhid and its categories
(b) Policies contrary to Thawuhid
(c) Ijmau and Kiyas
(d) Ijthihad and Mujthahids
  Out of the Questions belonging to this part to answer two preferred
questions. There are four questions marked a, b, c, and d in every
question. 20 marks (4 x 5 = 20) at the rate of 05 marks for each
question.
Part III - Essay type questions (40 marks)
Town Town District Town Town District
No. No. No. No.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .10.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2007
1172
Usage of Islamic Elements
(a) Al Quaran - Al Hadees - Historical background
(b) Writing Arabic words relating to Main Sura in Al- Quaran
(c) The four main Madhabs and their Imams
(d) Ijthihad and other Mujthahids
Out of the questions given in this part answers may be given for
two preferred subjects. For every question answers should be given
in essay writing type to enable the assessment of knowledge, skills
and concepts. 20 marks will be given for each question.
Second Paper - Al Fikhul Islam - (Islamic Law)
  This Question Paper is consisting of three parts.
Part I - Objective questions (40 marks)
The five duties and other routine work to be utilized as Ibadath
(a)Tharahath and Najis
(b) Arkanul Islam
(c) Other Ibadath
Anawers should be given for all questions in this section
1. (a) To give short answers - Ten questions - 10 marks
(b) Mulitiple questions - Five questions - 05 marks
(c) Filling blanks - Five questions - 05 marks
Part II - Structured questions (40 marks)
To undestand that Islam is complete way of life
(a) Ibathuth (Kalima, Sala, Zanat, Sawm and Hajj)
(b) Other Ibathathes
(c) Muamalath (Business)
(d) Munakahath (Family Life)
(e) Jinayath (Penal)
Out of the four questions in this section answers may be given
for any two subjects. Every question has been grouped as a, b, c, d,
Five marks will be given for each part of the questions (4 x 5 = 20).
Part III - Essay type questions (40 marks)
To have an understanding relating to the advantages of Farlu,
Sunnath and Ibadath and its philosophy and to act accordingly.
(a) Ibatha
(b) Muamalath (Business)
(c) Munakahath (Family Life)
(d) Jinayath (Penal)
  Out of the four questions in this section answers may be given for
to preferred questions. For every question, answers should be given
in an essay type structure to enable the assessment of knowledge
and concepts. Twenty marks will be given for each question.
Third Paper - Seera and Tareek
This question paper consists of three parts.
Part 1 - History of Prophet Muhammed (Sal) and Other Histories
(a) Religious position during the period of Jahiliyya
(b) Life History of Holy Prophet Muhammed (Sal)
(c) Dedication of Sahabs (Companians) for Islam
(d) Periods of Umaiya and Abbasiya
(e) Muslim contribution towords Modern Civilization
All candidates should answer the questions in this section. This
question consists of three parts.
(a) To give short answers - 10 questions - 10 marks
(b) Multiple questions - 05 questions - 05 marks
(c) Filling of blanks - 05 questions - 05 marks
(Total Marks- 20)
Part II  – structured questions (40 marks)
Knowledge relating to the contribution of Holy Nabi (Sal) and his
Alikula Faur Rashidu.
(a) Prophet (Sal)
(b) Madina Life of Holy Prophet (Sal)
(c) Al - Kulapaurrasidoon
(d) Contribution of Imams belonging to various fields
Out of the four questions in this part answers should be given for
any two questions. Every question has been grouped as a, b, c, and
do Marks will be given at the rate of 05 marks for each part.
(5 x 4 = 20)
Part III Essay type Questions - 40 marks
Understand the Islamic Social - political requirements introduced
by Holy Nabi (Sal).
(a) Life History of Holy Prophet (Sal)
(b) Contribution of Al -Kulapaurrasideen
(c) History of Sri Lankan Muslims
Out of the questions in this section answers should be given for
any two questions. Twenty Marks will be given for each question.
(Total Marks - 5 x 20 = 100)
Fourth Paper - Al Aklaq (Islamic Ethics)
This Question Paper consists of three parts
Part 1 - Structured questions - 20 marks
(a) Attention drawn in Islam for a code of Ethics
(b) Thakwa
(c) Charity
(d) Athil

<!-- page 13 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .10.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2007
1173
Candidates should answer all four questions in this section.
20 Marks will be given at the rate of five marks for each question.
Part II - Less structured questions - 40 marks
* Aklaq an Iman
* Murakaba and Warau
* Ethics related to social relationship
* Time Managements and Control of Senses
Out of the questions this section answers should be given for two
questions. Every question has been grouped as a, b, c, and d.
(05 marks will be given for each part  (5 x 4= 20).
Part III - Essay related questions - 40 marks
* Promotion of human loving kindness through Islamic
ethics
* Introducing favourable concepts through Ibadath
* Kindness towards living beings
* Islamic Jurisprudence
* Ethics of Youth
Out of the questions in this section answers should be given only
for two questions. Forty marks will be given for both questions at
the rate of twenty marks for each question.
10-677
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.