

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price :  Rs. 6.00  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of  September 28,  2007
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 28th September, 2007]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
RATNAPURA, MARAPANA SASTRODAYA
FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
ACT,  NO . 40  OF  2007

<!-- page 2 -->

Ratnapura, Marapana Sastrodaya Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2007
1
[Certified on 28th September, 2007]
L. D. – O. Inc. 37/2005.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  RATNAPURA , MARAPANA  SASTRODAY A
FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the Ratnapura,
Marapana Sastrodaya Foundation has heretofore been
established at Ratnapura,  for the purpose of effectively
carrying out and transacting all objects and matters
connected with the said Foundation according to the rules of
the Foundation:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This act may be cited as the Ratnapura, Marapana
Sastrodaya Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2007.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Ratnapura, Marapana Sastrodaya Foundation” (hereinafter
referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted
members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate with perpetual succession, under the name
and style of the “Ratnapura, Marapana Sastrodaya
Foundation”  (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)
and by that name may sue and be sued, with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and to alter the
same at its pleasure.
3. The General objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be —
(a) to establish, educational centers including pre
schools and vocational training, centers for children
and adults in areas where such educational facilities
are insufficient or not available ;
Preamble.
2—PL 002228—3,300  (07/2007)
General
objects.
Short Title.
Incorporation
of the
Ratnapura,
Marapana
Sastrodaya
Foundation.

<!-- page 3 -->

Ratnapura, Marapana Sastrodaya Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2007
2
(b) to promote peace and peaceful co-existance amongst
people ;
(c) to  work for the scientific and cultural advancement
of Sri Lankan society ;
(d) to liaise with other institutions having objects
similar to those of the Corporation;
(e) to provide monetary and other assistance to young
persons to engage in self-employments ;
(f) to provide facilities for young persons to train
themselves in sports ;
(g) to organize discussions, conferences, debates and
similar activities particularly for young persons;
(h) to collect and distribute books and periodicals and
provide library facilities, with a view to improving
literarcy among people ;
(i) to provide necessary facilities and encouragements
for young persons to enhance their inherent talents
and skills ;
(j) to establish and maintain centers for the welfare and
protection of dispaced persons and destitute persons.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute, all such acts, matters and things as are
necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the
objects of the Corporation or any one of them, including the
power to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow or
raise money, with or without security to receive or collect
grants and donations, to invest its funds, and to engage,
employ and dismiss officers and servants required for the
carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
General Powers
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Ratnapura, Marapana Sastrodaya Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2007
3
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
provisions of this Act and the rules  of the Corporation made
under section 6, be administered by a working committee
comprising of the following :—
(a) the Executive Committee which shall consist of the
President, Vice President, Secretary, Assistant
Secretary and Treasurer ;
(b) thirteen committee members ; and
(c) an Advisory Board consisting of three eminent
persons appointed by the  Executive  Committee
referred to in paragraph (a).
(2) The first Working Committee of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Working Committee of the
Foundation holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act.
6. It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to time
at any general meeting of majority of not less than two thirds
of their members present and voting to make rules not
inconsistant with the provisions of this Act or any other written
law for the admission, withdrawal or expulsion of members,
for the conduct of the duties of the Working Committee, and
of the various officers, agents and servants of the Corporation,
for the procedure in the transaction of business and otherwise
for the management of the affairs of the Corporation and the
accomplishment of its objects.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys received by way of gifts, testamentary dispositions,
transfers, donations, or contributions shall be deposited in
the name of the Corporation in one or more banks as may be
decided by the Working Committee.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
Funds of the
Corporation.
Power to make
rules.

<!-- page 5 -->

Ratnapura, Marapana Sastrodaya Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2007
4
(2) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in the exercise
and discharge of the powers and functions of the Corporation
shall be paid out of the fund of the Corporation.
8. All debts and liabilities of the said Foundation existing
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted
and all debts due to  subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purposes of this Act.
9. (1) The Working Committee shall cause proper
accounts to be kept of all the moneys received and expended
by the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year and the correctness of
income and expenditure account and balance sheet certified
by the auditor or auditors who are the associate members of
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka.
10. The seal of the Corporation shall not be  affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Executive President or the Secretary or the Treasurer and a
member who shall sign their names to the instrument in token
of their presence and such signing shall be independent of
the signing of any person as a witness.
11. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
take and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act, and subject to the rules in force the time being of the
said Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Foundation.
Accounts and
Audit.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Corporation may
hold property,
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 6 -->

Ratnapura, Marapana Sastrodaya Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2007
5
be given or transferred to some other Association or
Associations, having objects similar to the objects of the
Corporation and which is or are, by the rules thereof prohibited
from distributing any income or property among its or their
members. Such Association or Associations shall be
determined by the members of the Corporation at, or
immediately before, the time of the dissolution of the
Corporation.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or  of any body politic or corporate
or any other persons.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala,
Tamil and English texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 7 -->

Ratnapura, Marapana Sastrodaya Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2007
6
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO   05  befor 15th
                           December each year in respect of the year following.