

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1439
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"026 – 2017 cqks ui 30 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'06'30
No. 2,026 –  fRiday ,  juNE  30, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 21st july, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th  july, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st january, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1437 - B 81183 - 5,403(06/2017)
N. B.– inland Revenue Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka of june 16, 2017. 
N. B.– Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,025 of 23.06.2017 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.06.2017
1438
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing	an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any	file	cover,	card	board	pad,	folded	newspapers,	brown	papers	should	
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		Be		at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	the	
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification	 documents	 at	 the	 Examination	 Hall,	 his	 candidature	 is	
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working	of	the	problem.	Necessary	sketches,	diagrams	and	figures	should	
be	accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		 answer	running	into	serveral	
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.06.2017
1439
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of AGRICuLTuRE
Department of  Agrarian  Development
oPEN comPEtitiVE ExamiNatioN foR 
REcRuitmENt to thE PoSt of aGRaRiaN 
dEVELoPmENt officER GRadE ii iN thE 
dEPaRtmENt of aGRaRiaN 
dEVELoPmENt - 2017
aPPLicatioNS are hereby invited from the Sri Lankan 
citizens who are in possession of the qualifications spelled 
out below to fill the vacancies of Agrarian Development 
Officer Grade II in the Department of Agrarian 
development under the ministry of agriculture.
 1.1 applications are hereby invited from 30.06.2017 
to 31.07.2017, for the candidates who wishes to sit 
the above examination. the examination will be 
held in october by the department of Examination. 
the application should be in the form of the 
specimen appended to this notification and should 
be prepared that cages 01 to 07 appear on the first 
page and cages 08 to 12 appear on the next page.
  the candidate should be very careful to include the 
correct particulars in the application. if it is found 
that any candidate is not eligible according to the 
rules and regulations of this examination, his/ her 
candidature can be cancelled at any time before, 
during or after the examination.
 1.2 Applications should be filled by the candidate 
him/ herself in the language medium in which the 
candidate intends to sit the examination and should 
be correctly indicate the relevant number of the 
language medium in the cage provided. candidates 
will not be allowed to change language medium 
applied initially.
 1.3 While preparing the application, essentially should 
indicate the name of the examination in the Sinhala 
applications, in English in addition to Sinhala 
language and the name of the examination in the 
tamil applications, in English in addition to tamil 
language.
 1.4 the examination in Sinhala and tamil medium 
will be held by the commissioner General of 
Examinations at the examination centers located 
in the districts mentioned in the Schedule i. 
accordingly, it should be correctly mentioned the 
district and the relevant district number in the cage 
provided in order to candidate's first and second 
choice. candidates are not allowed to change the 
district/ districts in which they apply to sit the 
examination. In case of insufficient candidates 
in any examination center, the candidates will be 
referred to a centre as per their second choice. 
In case of insufficient candidates applied for all 
or more districts which proposed to establish 
examination centers, the commissioner General of 
Examination will take step to held the examination 
in colombo.
 1.4.1 "in the event of any inconsistency between 
the Sinhala, tamil and English text of this 
notification, published the Sinhala text 
shall prevail."
 1.5 application duly perfected should be sent 
by registered post to reach the address of 
'commissioner General of Examinations, 
organization and overseas Examinations Branch. 
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, P. o. 
Box. 1503, colombo' on or before 31.07.2017 
and candidates who serves in public sector should 
submit their applications through their head of the 
department, while personal candidates directly 
submit the applications by themselves.
  the words " open competitive Examination for 
Recruitment to the Post of agrarian development 
Officer Grade II in the Department of Agrarian 
development - 2017" should be written on the 
top left-hand  corner of the envelope in which the 
application is enclosed.
 1.6 applications that do not comply with the specimen 
and that are not completed in every aspect, shall be 
rejected without notice. it is responsibility of the 
candidate to make sure that the application from 
perfected by him/ her complies with the specimen 
given in the examination notification and whether 
the examination fees paid and affixed the receipt in 
the relevant cage, as otherwise the application may 
be rejected. (it is advisable to keep a photocopy of 
the application with candidate.)
2. Terms of engagement :
 2.1 this post is permanent. it is subject to the 
policy decision to be taken by the Government 
in the future relating to the pension scheme. 
Officers must contribute to the "Widows 
and orphans" Pension fund/ "Widowers & 
orphans" Pension fund from their salary.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.06.2017
1440
 2.2 the selected candidates should subject to the 
rules and regulations from 10 - 12 of chapter 
ii of the Establishment code and Procedural 
Rules of Public Service commission.
 2.3 the selected candidates should subject to the 
rules and regulations of the Establishment 
code, financial Regulations, the directions 
of the department and other regulations and 
orders that may be issued by the Government 
from time to time.
3. General Qualifications :
 3.1 applicant must be a citizen of Sri Lanka. 
 3.2 Should bear a good character.
 3.3 Every candidate should be in good physical 
and mental fitness to serve in any part of the 
island and to perform the duties of the post.
 3.4 the age must be not less than 21 years and 
not more than 35 years on the closing date 
of calling of applications. (accordingly, 
candidates who have the date of birth on or 
after 31.07.1982 and on or before 31.07.1996 
are eligible to apply for the examination.
 3.5 No person who is ordained in any religious 
order shall be allowed to apply or sit the 
competitive examination.
4. Educational Qualifications. - Shall have possessed 
a degree from a university recognized by the university 
Grant commission.
5. Method of Recruitment :
 5.1 Terms of Written Competitive examination:
  in the written examination, candidates are 
expected to secure at least 40% of the marks 
allocated for each subject and appointments 
will be made in the order of merit based on 
the total marks scored, depending on the 
number of vacancies set apart to be filled.
 5.2 Relevant syllabus for Written competitive 
Examination:
  the examination will consist of two papers.
 1.  comprehension - duration - 1 1/2 hour -  
    100 marks
 2.  intelligent test - duration - 1 1/2 hour -  
    100 marks
  (candidate should score a minimum of 40% 
marks or above in each subject to obtain 
pass).
 5.3 General Interview to verify the qualifications. 
(marks shall not be allocated.)
  01. Comprehension :
   this paper will be provided a number 
of short texts to candidates. Some of the 
texts have to be summarized to a single 
sentence and also have to define the texts 
underlined. alternatives will be provided 
for some texts and candidates have to 
select the most suitable answer out of 
given alternatives. further candidates 
have to provide correct answers for the 
questions asked from the text given. this 
paper has been formulated to examine 
the comprehensive knowledge of the 
candidate. 
  02. Intelligent Test :
   this paper is expected to assess the 
capacity of the candidate in logical 
comprehension, analytical skills and 
decision making skills. this paper 
consists of multiple choice questions. 
all questions should be answered.
 5.4 the examination will be held in Sinhala 
and tamil medium. candidates will not 
be allowed to change language medium 
applied initially. candidates may sit this 
examination in only one language medium 
of their preferences and should answer for 
the question papers using same language 
medium.
 5.5 Issuance of Results :
  the result sheet will be prepared by the 
commissioner General of Examinations, in 
the order of merit based on the total marks 
scored by the candidates who scored at least 
40% of the marks or above for each subject 
and will be submitted to commissioner 
General of agrarian development.
  issuance of results to each candidate will be 
made by the department of Examination by 
post or via the website www.results.exam.
gov.lk
6. Salary Scale (Monthly Basis) :
the monthly salary scale for this post is Rs.34,605 
- 10x660 -11 x 775 - 15 x 930 - 63,460/= as per 
the Salary code mN - 05 - 2016 under the Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.06.2017
1441
7. Grade Promotions.– according to the recruitment 
procedure of the post of Agrarian Development Officer.
8. examination Fees.- the fee of Rs.600 could only 
be paid to any agrarian Service center and said agrarian 
Service center will produce a.S.c./2(a) receipt to the 
candidate. The receipt obtained should be affixed in the 
relevant cage of the application so as not to be detached. 
it is advisable to keep a photocopy of this receipt with the 
candidate. the fee is non refundable and it shall not be paid 
back, under any circumstances.
9. Implementation of the Official Languages Policy.- 
Prescribed official language policy should be obtained 
within 05 years of joining the service as per Public 
administration circular No. 01/2014 and consequent 
circulars.
10. Attestation of the signature.- candidate's signature in 
the application form should have been attested by a Principal 
of a Government School, a justice of Peace, commissioner 
of Oaths, Attorney - at - Law, Commissioned Officer in 
the Armed Forces, an Officer holding a Gazetted post in 
the Police Service or an Officer holding a permanent, staff 
grade post in public Service. candidate must get his/ he 
admission card attested in advance and surrender it to the 
supervisor of the hall on the first day of the examination. 
a candidate who fails to produce his/ her admission card 
attested will not be permitted to sit the examination.
 11. all applicants who have paid prescribed 
examination fees and forwarded their applications on 
or before the prescribed date will be allowed to sit the 
competitive examination, by the commissioner General 
of Examinations, on the presumption that only those 
who possess qualifications, indicated in the Gazette 
Notification have forwarded their applications. A notice 
will be published in the newspapers by the department 
of Examination as soon as admission cards are issued to 
applicants. if the admission card is not received even after 
2 or 3 days of such an advertise ment, step shall be taken 
to notify the department of Examination in the manner 
specified in the advertisement. When informing, the name 
of the examination applied for, full name, address and Nic 
number of the candidate shall be indicated. it would be 
advisable for candidates outside colombo to fax a letter 
of request along with a fax number of the candidate to 
the department of Examination through the fax number 
mentioning the notification for sending a copy of the 
admission. further it would be advisable to keep a copy 
of the application, copy of the receipt relevant to payment 
of examination fee and the receipt of registration of the 
application to prove any information requested by the 
department of Examinations. 
 12. "the issuing of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that he/she has the required 
qualifications to sit the examination or to appoint to the 
post."
 13. candidates should only furnish National identity 
card issued by the department for Registration of Persons 
or Valid Passport issued by the department of immigration 
and Emigration, to prove their identity.
 14. candidates shall be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations for the purpose of conducting examinations. 
he/ She shall be liable to be subjected to any punishment 
imposed by commissioner General of Examinations for 
violation of these rules and regulations.
  d. V . 
Bandulasena,
  commissioner General of 
  agrarian development (Acting).
department of agrarian development, 
P.o.Box 537,
colombo 07,
june, 2017.
specimen application form
 
(For office use only)
open competitive examination for recruitment to the 
post of agrarian development officer grade ii in the 
department of agrarian development -2017
medium of the written examination 
Sinhala - 2
tamil - 3
(Write the relevant number in the cage) 
* district and district   district district
 number requested to    No. 
 sit the examination 1
* (Refer schedule – 1 under 
 annexure of the Gazette 2
 Notification.)
01. (i) Name with initials (in capital English Letters) 
:–––––––––––.
  (eg : SuNiL, a. B.)

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.06.2017
1442
 (ii)  Name in full (in English block capitals) :–––––––.
 (iii)  Name in full (in Sinhala or tamil) :––––––––––.
02.  National identity card Number :
03. (i)  Permanent address (in English block capitals) 
:––––––––––.
 (ii)  Postal address (in English block capitals) :–––––.
04.  Gender :- male - 0
    female - 1
     (Write the relevant number in the cage)
05. (i) date of Birth: 
  y ear  month date
 (ii) age as at the closing date of applications:
 
  y ears months days
06.  marital Status :- 
  unmarried - 1
  married - 2
  (Write the relevant number in the cage)
07.  contact number :
08. (i) the degree and the year obtained  :––––––––––.
 (ii) university   :––––––––––.
 (iii) Grade obtained :
 (i) General/ first class honor/ Second class 
honor (upper/Lower)
 (ii) Special/ first class honor/ Second class 
honor (upper/Lower)
 (iv) Subjects  :––––––––––.
09.  Examination fee :
 (i) agrarian Service center paid :––––––––––.
 (ii) amount Paid :––––––––––. 
 (iii) date :––––––––––.
 (iv) Receipt Number  :––––––––––.
Paste on edge of the receipt here securely.
(it would be advisable to keep a photocopy with the 
candidate)
10.  Statement of the applicant :
i, do hereby certify that the information furnished by 
me in this application are true and accurate. i am aware 
that if any information furnished by me in this application 
is found to be false or inaccurate before i am selected, i am 
liable to disqualify for selection and i will be subject to the 
termination without any compensation, if such revelation 
is made after the recruitment. further, i agree to be bound 
by the rules and regulations imposed by commissioner 
General of Examination as conducting the examination 
and issuance of the results.
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
 date :––––––––––.
11.  attestation of the applicant’s signature :
i, hereby certify that mr./mrs./ miss. ............................
.................... who submits this application is known to me 
personally, that he/she has paid prescribed examination fee 
and affixed the relevant receipt herein. He/ She placed his/ 
her signature in my presence on ................................ .
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the officer attesting the Signature.
Name of the Officer attesting the signature :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
12.  only for applicants in public service
i, hereby certify that mr./ mrs./ miss ...........................
............ the applicant is serving in a post of .....................
..................... as permanent / temporary/ casual servant in 
this ministry / department, and he / she has paid prescribed 
examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt herein 
and if he / she could / could not be released from his / her 
present post, if selected for the position. 
  ––––––––––––––,  
 Signature of the head of the department.
  (Official Seal)
Name  :––––––––––.
designation  :––––––––––.
address  :––––––––––.
date  :––––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.06.2017
1443
SCheDuLe – 1
Select the district numbers where examination 
centers will be located
the examination will be held in following districts. 
the candidates should select the nearest district to their 
residence as their examination center. candidate should 
indicate the district and the district number which the 
candidate intends to sit the examination as per the 
following table, in the application. candidates are not 
allowed to change the district in which they apply to sit the 
examination.
 Province District District No.
 Western colombo 01
  Gampaha 02
  Kalutara 03
 central Kandy 04
  matale 05
  Nuwara Eliya 06
 Southern Galle 07
  matara 08
  hambantota 09
 Northern jaffna 10
  mannar 11
  Vavuniya 12
  mullaitivu 13
  Killinochchi 14
 Eastern Baticaloa 15
  ampara 16
  trincomalee 17
 NorthWestern Kurunegala 18
  Puttalam 19
 North central anuradhapura 20
  Polonnaruwa 21
 uva Badulla 22
  monaragala 23
 Sabaragamuwa Rathnapura 24
  Kegalle 25
06-1163
amendment
mINISTRy Of WOmEN AND ChILD 
AffAIRS
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to the post of Probation Officer of Department  
of Probation and Child Care Services – 
September 2017
REGaRdiNG the No. 06 – 25 Notification of the Gazette 
No. 2022 dated 02.06.2017. Section 05. ii will be amended 
as follows;
05. Written examination :
ii. examination : will be conducted in all the 
Sinhalese, tamil and English languages.
 Secretary,
 ministry of Women and child affairs.
5
th floor, Sethsiripaya Stage II,
Battaramulla. 
06-912
––––––––––––––––––
 
EffICIENCy bAR EXAmINATION fOR 
OffICERS IN GRADE III AND GRADE II Of  
SRI LANkA TEChNOLOGICAL 
SERvICE - 2016 (II)
it is hereby notified that, in accordance with the approved 
service minute of Sri Lanka technological Service, 
the above mentioned examinations will be held by the 
commissioner General of Examinations, in colombo, in 
the month of october 2017.
02. (i) these examinations will be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations and candidates 
will be bound by the rules and regulations prescribed by 
him in respect of conducting the examination and issuing 
the results. the candidates will be subjected to a punishment 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations, if 
such rules are violated by them.
(ii) Rules prescribed for candidates are printed separately 
at the beginning of this gazette notification.
03. the specimen application for admission to this 
examination is published at the end of this notification. 
candidates are required to prepare their applications in 
accordance with the specimen form and officers of Sri 
Lanka technological Service in the public service of the 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.06.2017
1444
central government should forward their appli cations 
through the respective head of department and officers of 
Sri Lanka technological Service in the provincial public 
service should forward their applications through the 
Secretary of PSc in the provincial council where they serve, 
by registered post to reach the commissioner General of 
Examinations, organizations and foreign Examination 
Branch, department of Examinations, P. o. Box 1503, 
colombo on or before 31.07.2017. the top left corner of 
the envelop containing the application should bear clearly 
the title of the examination. applications received after the 
closing date of application will be rejected.
04. Identity cards.– candidates should prove their 
identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor for each subject they offer. for this purpose any 
of the following documents will be accepted.
 (a)  an identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of Persons.
 (b)  a valid passport.
the candidature of any applicant who is unable to furnish 
any of the above documents is liable to cancellation on the 
discretion of commissioner General of Examinations.
05. Application :
 (i)  applications should be prepared in a paper a4 in 
size using both sides. No. 01 to 06 should appear 
on the first page whilst the rest should appear on 
other pages. applications could be typed but they 
should be completed correctly and legibly by the 
candidate in his/her own handwriting and in the 
language medium in which the candidate sits this 
examination.
 (ii)  When the application form is prepared, the title 
of the examination appearing in the specimen 
should be indicated in English Language as 
well, on both Sinhala and tamil application 
forms. applications which are incomplete and 
not prepared in accordance with the specimen 
form will be rejected without any notice. it is 
the responsibility of the candidate to make sure 
that the application form perfected by him/her 
self complies with the specimen given in the 
examination notice and it would be advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the completed application 
form.
 (iii)  the candidates appearing for the whole 
examination or one subject for the first time 
need not pay examination fees. however, for 
subsequent sitting, a fee of Rs. 500/= should be 
paid for the whole examination and if only one 
subject is offered, a fee of Rs. 250/= should be 
paid. The fee can be paid at any post office or 
sub post office in the Island to be credited to 
revenue head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examination on or before the closing 
date of application and the receipt obtained thus 
should be affixed firmly in the relevant cage of 
the application. it would be advisable to keep 
a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. 
under no circumstance, with the fee be refunded 
nor transferred in respect of other examinations. 
Stamps or money orders will not be accepted for 
the examination fee.
 (iv)  this examination is held in Sinhala, tamil and 
English medium. applicants should select one 
medium relevant to them and they should answer 
the question papers in one and the same language 
selected by them. the medium they applied for is 
not allowed to change at a later occasion.
 (v)  An officer is not allowed to sit for both 
Efficiency Bar Examinations at one and the 
same occasion.
 (vi)  The officers who have entered into the Grade 
iii of Sri Lanka technological Services as at the 
closing date of the application can sit for the first 
Efficiency Bar Examination and those who have 
entered into the Grade ii can sit for the second 
Efficiency Bar Examination. 
06. on the supposition that only the candidates who 
have possessed the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette 
have submitted applications, the commissioner General of 
Examinations will issue admission cards to the applicants 
who have submitted perfected applications indicating the 
medium of language, examination applied for, signature of 
the applicant and the attestation of the signature, attestation 
of the head of the department along with the receipt of 
payment of the examination fee, if relevant, on or before 
the closing date of examination. a candidate sitting for 
the examination must produce his admission card which 
bears the candidate's signature and duly attested to the 
supervisor of the examination center. a candidate who 
fails to produce his admission card will not be permitted 
to sit the examination. A notification will be published in 
newspapers as soon as the admission cards are issued to 
the candidates. if the admission card is not received even 
after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be 
taken to notify the department of Examinations in the 
manner specified in the advertisement. At the time of 
calling the department of Examinations, the full name of 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.06.2017
1445
the applicant, address and national identity card number 
should be mentioned and it would be advisable to keep the 
following in hand i.e. photocopies of the application form 
and the receipt of payment of examination fee if relevant, 
kept at your possession and the receipt of registration. in 
case of applicants outside colombo, a letter of request with 
a fax number to which the admission card should be sent 
and other particulars mentioned above should be sent to the 
department of Examination by fax.
06. (i)  the signature of the candidate in the admission 
card for the examination shall have been be 
duly attested. a candidate applying for the 
examination through a certain institution shall 
get his/her signature attested by the respective 
Head of the Institution or an officer authorized 
by him or the Principal of a government 
school/retired officer, Grama Niladhari of the 
division, a justice of Peace, a commissioner 
for oaths, an attorney-at-Law, a Notary Public, 
a Commissioned Officer of the three armed 
Forces, permanent officer in staff grade in Public 
or Provincial Public Service drawing an annual 
consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360/- or above, an 
incumbent or chief priest of a Buddhist temple 
or a person in charge of a place of worship or a 
person holding a respectable position among the 
clergy in any other religious sector.
07. the documents furnished later by the candidates 
who have failed to satisfy the requirement indicated in para 
(06) above will not be considered. 
08. Officers may, if they so which, present themselves 
for different subjects separately at different examinations. 
however, in order to secure a pass at least 40% of the 
marks should be obtained in respect of each question paper.
09. Issuance of the results of the examination. – in 
accordance with the particulars indicated in para 3 above, 
the results of the candidates belonging to Provincial Public 
Service will be issued to the Secretary of the respective 
Provincial Public Service commission and the results of 
the candidates belonging to public service of the central 
government will be issued to the Secretary of the ministry 
of Public administration.
10. Scheme of examinations :
 (1) The Efficiency Bar Examination for officers 
in Grade iii will consist of the following 02 
question papers.
  Subject No. (01) - Establishments code 
and Procedural Rules of the Public service 
commission - (two hours) 100 marks
  Subject No. (02) - financial Regulations - (two 
hours) 100 marks
  establishments Code and Procedural Rules of 
the Public Service Commission (Subject No. 01) 
- Syllabus
  this paper will be based on the following 
chapters of Establishments code and Procedural 
Rules of the Public Service commission.
chapter Viii overtime, holidays, holiday 
Pay & allowances
chapter xii Leave
chapter xiii Railway Warrants
chapter xiV t ravel on duty within the 
island
chapter xix Government Quarters
  Financial Regulations - (Subject No. 02) - 
Syllabus
  this paper will be based on the following 
chapters of financial Regulations.
 (1) Chapter I.
   Estimates of Expenditure and Revenue.
  the consolidated fund and Planning and 
Programming of Expenditure, form of 
Presentation of annual Estimates, New 
Proposals, Preparation Submission and 
Passing of Estimates of Expenditure, 
Variations to Estimates of Expenditure  
(fR 1 to 68).
 (2) Chapter III.
   financial management and accountability.
  Chief Accounting Officers, Accounting 
Officers, Revenue Officers, Authorization, 
  Approval,  Certification,  Delegation  of 
  authority.  
(fR 124 to 147).

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.06.2017
1446
 (2) The Efficiency Bar Examination for officers 
in Grade ii will consist of the following 02 
question papers.
Subject No. 03 -  Establishments code (t wo 
hours) 100 marks
Subject No. 04 - financial Regulations (t wo 
hours) 100 marks
 Establishments code (Subject No. 03) - Syllabus. 
this paper will be based on the following 
chapters of Establishments code. 
chapter xV t ravel abroad for study, 
training or on duty
chapter xVi holiday t ravel
chapter xxiii Special concessions and 
conditions regarding officers 
suffering from  certain types 
of illnesses.
chapter xxiV Salary Loans and advances 
chapter xxV concessions to members of 
trade unions
chapter xxVii channels of communication
chapter xxViii administrative procedures
chapter xxx Right of Government over its 
officers
chapter xxxiii Legal advice and legal actions
chapter xLVii General conduct and discipline
chapter xLViii Rules of disciplinary 
procedure
  financial Regulations (Subject No. 04) - 
Syllabus
  this paper will be based on the following 
chapters of financial Regulations.
 (1) chapter Vi.
  custody of Public money etc., imprests 
and Bank accounts.
  Security and custody of public etc., 
counterfoil Books, Boards of Survey 
on cash stamps etc., imprests, Bank 
accounts 
  (fR. 315 to 396)
 (2) chapter xiii. 
   Supplies, Works and Services.
   Procurement and contracts, Supplies, 
custody and Verification of Stores,  
Surplus and unserviceable articles
   (fR. 685 to 775)
11.  the decision of the Secretary, ministry of public 
Administration and Management will be the final in respect 
of any matter not provided for in this notification.
12.  issue of an admission card to a candidate does 
not necessarily mean that his/her eligibility to sit for the 
examination has been accepted.
13.  in the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, tamil and English texts of this Gazette notification, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail as the accurate text.
     
 j. j. 
rathnasiri,
  Secretary,
  ministry of Public
  administration and management.
 ministry of Public administration and management,
independence Square,
colombo 07,
 15th june, 2017,
Specimen form of Application
           
  (For office use only) 
EfficiENcy BaR ExamiNatioN foR officERS 
iN GRadE iii aNd GRadE ii of SRi LaNKa 
tEchNoLoGicaL  SERVicE - 20016 (ii)
(applications for both Grade iii and Grade ii 
examinations cannot be submitted at one and the same 
time)
medium in which you sit for the examination : 
(Sinhala - 2/ tamil - 3/ English - 4)  
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Examination for which you intend to sit
Grade iii - 0
Grade ii - 1
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01. Whether you belong to the provincial public 
 service or public service
 (indicate the number relevant to the service you belong, 
in the cage) 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.06.2017
1447
 (2) chapter xiii. 
   Supplies, Works and Services.
   Procurement and contracts, Supplies, 
custody and Verification of Stores,  
Surplus and unserviceable articles
   (fR. 685 to 775)
11.  the decision of the Secretary, ministry of public 
Administration and Management will be the final in respect 
of any matter not provided for in this notification.
12.  issue of an admission card to a candidate does 
not necessarily mean that his/her eligibility to sit for the 
examination has been accepted.
13.  in the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, tamil and English texts of this Gazette notification, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail as the accurate text.
     
 j. j. r
athnasiri,
  Secretary,
  ministry of Public
  administration and management.
 ministry of Public administration and management,
independence Square,
colombo 07,
 15th june, 2017,
Specimen form of Application
           
  (For office use only) 
EfficiENcy BaR ExamiNatioN foR officERS 
iN GRadE iii aNd GRadE ii of SRi LaNKa 
tEchNoLoGicaL  SERVicE - 20016 (ii)
(applications for both Grade iii and Grade ii 
examinations cannot be submitted at one and the same 
time)
medium in which you sit for the examination : 
(Sinhala - 2/ tamil - 3/ English - 4)  
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Examination for which you intend to sit
Grade iii - 0
Grade ii - 1
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01. Whether you belong to the provincial public 
 service or public service
 (indicate the number relevant to the service you belong, 
in the cage) 
(central Public Service - 10/Western Provincial Public 
Service - 01/ central Provincial Public Service - 02 / 
Southern Provincial Public Service - 03/ North Provincial 
Public Service - 04/ Eastern Provincial Public Service - 
05/ Northwestern Provincial Public Service - 06/ North 
central Provincial Public Service - 07/ uva Provincial 
Public Service - 08/ Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public 
Service - 09)
02. (a) Name in full :––––––––––––.
   (in English block capital letters)
  (eg. hERath mudiyaNSELaGE SamaN 
KumaRa GuNaWaRdhaNa)
 (b) Name with initials : (indicate the initials at the 
end of the name) :––––––––––––.
   (in English block capital letters) 
  (eg. GuNa WaRdhaNa, h.m.S.K.)
 (c) Name in full :––––––––––––.
   (in Sinhala/t amil)
03. Official address : (Admissions will be posted to this 
address) : 
 (in English block capital letters) :––––––––––––.
 (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
04. Sex :
 (male - 0/female - 1) 
 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
05. National identity card Number :
06. Subject/Subjects offered :
  Subjects offered for the Efficiency Bar Examination of 
Grade iii/ Grade ii (delete inapplicable  words)
  Subject Subject No.
  ........................... 
  ........................... 
07. t elephone Number :
08. (i) date of Birth :   
  y ear  month date
 (ii) age as at 31.07.2017: 
  y ears months days
09. (i) designation  :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Grade of Sri Lanka technological Service  :               
––––––––––––.   
  (Should be indicate as Grade iii/ii)
 (iii) Service period in the above grade as at 31.07.2017  
:––––––––––––.
10.  department to which you belong  :––––––––––––.
11. Particulars of the receipt obtained by paying the 
examination fee :
 (i)  The post office at which the payment of 
examination fee is made  :––––––––––––.
 (ii)  Number and date of the receipt  :––––––––––––.
 (iii)  amount paid  :––––––––––––.
Affix the receipt of examination fee here (It would be 
advisable to keep a copy of the receipt)
i declare that the particulars furnished above are 
accurate and i am entitled to sit for the examination in the 
language medium mentioned above. further, i agree to 
abide by the rules imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examination on conducting the examination and issuing 
the results. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the candidate.
date  :––––––––––––.
Attestation of candidate's signature
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss. ............................
....................................................is presently employed in 
my office and is well known to me and he/she placed his/
her signature in my presence on ................. 2017 and is 
exempted from paying the prescribed examination fee and 
has paid the prescribed examination fee and has affixed the 
receipt.
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the attester.
date  :––––––––––––.
Name of the officer attesting  :––––––––––––.
Post  :––––––––––––.
address  :––––––––––––.
(Confirm by the Official Stamp)
Certification of the Head of the Department
i hereby certify that the particulars given in paragraphs 1 
- 11 above are correct and this candidate is eligible to sit for 
the examination and also eligible to sit for the examination 
in the language medium mentioned above.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature and designation of 
 head of department.
 (Confirm by the Official Stamp)
date  :––––––––––––.
06 - 1136

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.06.2017
1448
mINISTRy Of SuSTAINAbLE   DEvELOPmENT AND WILD LIfE
Department of National botanic Gardens
oPEN /LimitEd comPEtitiVE ExamiNatioN foR   REcRuitmENt to PoStS iN thE GRadE iii  of 
thE SRi LaNKa tEchNoLoGicaL SERVicE
aPPLicatioNS are called from citizens of Sri Lanka who have fulfilled the following qualifications for Open /Limited 
competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade iii of the posts of category of management assistant (technical) of 
the Sri Lanka technological Service in the department of National Botanic Gardens. this examination will be held at 
examination centers in colombo.
1. applications are called for the posts mentioned below :
 
Number Posts Vacancies
Open Limited
01 Garden development assistant 19 08
02 audio Visual technology assistant 01 -
03 Research assistant 05 02
04 Technical Officer (Civil) 01 -
 
information which relevant to each post will be published in the web site www.botanic gardens.gov.lk
2.  Recruitment Method :
 2.1 The competitive examination for recruitment of Grade III officers of Sri Lanka Technological service in 
the department of National Botanic Gardens.
  Date of examination.– this Examination will be held in october, 2017. the date of the examination 
will be informed later. the right of the cancellation or postpone this examination will be decided by the 
commissioner General of Examinations or Public Service commission. 
 2.2 General Interview.– Expected Objectives: Confirmation of the qualifications relevant to the Candidates.
3. 3.1 Selected candidates will be recruited to Grade iii of the Sri Lanka technological Service.
 3.2 these posts are permanent and pensions will be determined on the policy decisions taken by the 
Government.
 3.3 The appointment is subjected to a probation period of three years from the date of appointment. The first 
Efficiency Bar Examination should be completed within three (3) years from the date of appointment.
 3.4 The relevant proficiency level of the second official language should be acquired as per the provisions of 
Public administration circular 01/2014 dated on 21.01.2014 (Subject to the provisions of the Sri Lanka 
technological Service).
4. 4.1 Salary Code.– (mN 3-2016)
 4.2 Salary Scale.–  Rs. 31,040-10 x 445 -11x 660-10 x 730-10 x750- Rs. 57,550.
5.  age limit (at the closing date of applications.)
         minimum age limit – 18 years 
         maximum limit       – 30 years
  accordingly  those who are born on or before 31st july 1999 and born on or after 31st july 1987 are 
eligible to apply for this.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.06.2017
1449
6.  Physical Fitness.– All candidates should have physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and 
to discharge the duties of the post. 
7.  Qualifications :
 7.1  Educational qualifications of recruitment on open basis:
Post Educational Qualifications
          
Garden development  
assistant
1 a  pass in G.c.E.(o/L) Examination in 06 (six) subjects with credit passes 
in Sinhala /tamil/English language, mathematics, Science and any other 
subject at one sitting.  
                                       and
11.a a  pass in G.c.E.(a/L) Examination in 03 (three) science subjects with 
two  subjects out of agriculture, Biology, chemistry, Physics, Zoology, 
Biological system technology at one sitting (Except General English 
and General test) for the posts of Garden development assistant and 
Research assistant.
Research assistant
audio Visual assistant b a  pass in G.c.E.(a/L) Examination in three (03) subjects mathematics or 
technology subjects out of combined mathematics, Physics, chemistry, 
Engineering technology or information technology at one sitting.(Except 
General English and General Test) for the posts of Technical officer and 
audio visual technology assistant.Technical Officer
 7.2 Educational qualifications of recruitment on limited basis :
  a pass in G.c.E.(o/L) Examination in 06 (six) subjects with credit passes in `Sinhala /t amil/English 
Language, mathematics, Science and any other subject at not more than two sittings.   
 7.3 Professional qualifications for recruitment on open and limited basis:
Post Professional Qualifications
Garden development 
assistant
Two year Garden Landscaping Diploma Certificate awarded by an 
institution under the department of National Botanic Gardens.
                                  or
Two year Agriculture Diploma Certificate awarded by the Hardy 
technical college, ampara .
                                  or
Two year Agriculture Diploma Certificate awarded by Aquinas College.
                                  or
Two year Agriculture Diploma Certificate awarded by the Department of 
agriculture.
                                  or
Two year Diploma Certificate awarded by an institution approved by the 
tertiary and V ocational Education commission.
                                  or
Completion of National V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) Level 6 in 
relevant to the field of the job.
                                  or 
Accept other technical qualifications  after consulting  the Ministry of 
higher Educations and other above mentioned institutions approved as 
equivalent to the above qualifications by the Tertiary and V ocational 
Education commission.  
                   
Research assistant

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.06.2017
1450
Post Professional Qualifications
               
 audio visual assistant
Successfully followed and obtained a National Technology Certificate in 
a relevant field to the post awarded by a Technical College approved by 
the tertiary and V ocational Education commission.
                                  or
Successfully followed and obtained a National V ocational Qualifications 
Level 06 Certificate in Computer Diploma  awarded by a V ocational 
training authority approved by the tertiary and V ocational Education 
commission.
                                  or 
Accept other technical qualifications  after consulting  the Ministry of 
higher Educations and other above mentioned institutions approved as 
equivalent to the above qualifications by the Tertiary and V ocational 
Education commission.  
Technical Officer
 (civil)
National technology diploma (civil) awarded by university of moratuwa 
or ampara hardy institution.
                                  or
diploma in civil Engineering awarded by National apprentice and 
industrial training authority.
                                 or
higher National diploma in civil Engineering awarded by ministry of 
Education and higher Education.
                                 or
diploma in technology (civil) awarded by open university of Sri Lanka 
.
                                 or
Completion of National V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) level 6 in 
relevance to the field of the job.
                                  or
Accept other technical qualifications  after consulting  the Ministry of 
higher Educations and other above mentioned institutions approved as 
equivalent to the above qualifications by the Tertiary and V ocational 
Education commission.  
8. Other :
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) Should have an excellent character.
 (iii) a  clergy in any religious sect is not eligible to apply for this examination.  
 (iv) Fulfillment of the qualifications required to sit for the written examination for recruitment to this service 
will be recognized only if the applicant has obtained all qualifications and relevant age limit specified on 
or before the closing date of applications in every respect.   
  

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.06.2017
1451
9.  Written  examination :
 9.1  this examination will be held by the commissioner General of Examinations.
Name of the
paper
Number of the 
question paper
Duration Maximum
Marks
Pass
Marks
intelligence test 1 01 hour 100 40
Subject related knowledge 
paper (for the posts of Garden 
development assistant /
Research assistant )
2 03 hours 100 40
Subject related knowledge 
(for the  post of audio Visual 
assistant)
3 03 hours 100 40
Subject related Knowledge 
(for the post of technical 
officer) (civil)
4 03 hours 100 40
Note: Every candidate should sit for two papers, paper 1 –intelligence test and one of the papers from paper number 
2, 3 or 4. Both papers will be conducted on the same day.
 9.2 Syllabus :
   Paper   Syllabus
Garden development 
assistant
   Research assistant
1. Contribution of floriculture sector for economic development of 
Sri Lanka.
1.1 Contribution of floriculture sector for Gross National 
Product.(GNP)
1.2 Export and Import conditions of floriculture sector.
2. Knowledge in climatic zones of Sri Lanka.
3. Soil and plant nutrition.
3.1 Structure of the soil, texture, physical and chemical salinity 
and their effect on crop cultivation.
3.2 Plant Nutrition, soil plant Nutrition, management
3.3 Special information on plant nutrition.    
   
4. Vegetable production.        
4.1 Vegetable nursery maintenance.   
4.2 Planting activities of vegetables varieties. 
5. apiculture
5.1 Economic value
5.2 commence bee house establishment and maintenance.
5.3 harvesting and preparation. 
6. floriculture
6.1 Production upgrading through floriculture methods and post 
harvest technology. 
6.2 Production of cut flowers, ornamental plants, cut leaves and 
arrangement for market.
7. Landscaping methods
7.1 history, Landscaping principles, Garden landscape materials 
and methods. 
7.2 Landscape planning and relevant rules and regulations.  

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.06.2017
1452
   Paper   Syllabus
           
Technical Officer
  
8. Bio diversity
8.1 Bio Diversity conservation, plant identification and 
nomenclature.
9. t issue culture 
9.1 major principles of tissue culture and past information 
relevant.
9.2 usage of tissue culture/examples.
9.3 advantages and disadvantages of tissue culture.
10. Plant Quarantine knowledge.
10.1 Knowledge of Plant Quarantine regulations.
10.2 methods of Plant Quarantine.
11. Bio technology
11.1 importance of dNa
11.2 What is a gene? its activity 
11.3 ability to upgrade the plants through gene engineering 
skill methods. 
1. architectural drawings
1.1 Structural drawings 
1.2 Knowledge regard to structural drawings of powerful 
concrete sheets, foundations, iron trussers  and iron posts.
2. details on constructions materials 
2.1 cements, Lime, concrete stones , bricks
timber, chuck, paints and varnish, plastics and glass.  
3. arrangements of building measuring scales, estimates and 
bill of quantities and estimating building materials need for 
building  constructions and labourers.
 4. measuring and levelling .
4.1 chain measurement, levelling, Knowledge regard to 
usage at tiodalight.
5. construction of buildings.
5.1 foundations, building walls, wood roof, iron trussers, 
towers, concrete towers, foundation layers, stairs.
6. Structures
 7. Services
7.1. Electricity, water, sanitary
8. Preventive methods 
8.1 Preventive methods in a work shop 
           
audio visual assistant
1. Parts of the still and video camera, its functionality and 
operations.
2. Parts of a computer and knowledge of its functionality.
3. Basic knowledge and relevant software knowledge regard to 
storage of photographs and videos, arrangements, editing and 
production of video programmes in a computer.
4. theory and practical knowledge on photography. 
5. Video graphic and its principles. 
6. Parts of the multimedia and its activation.
7. Knowledge based on microphones and knowledge based on 
recording, activation at audible instruments and maintenance.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.06.2017
1453
10.  Recruitment will be based on the results of the written test and general interview :
a result list will be submitted to the relevant institute as a merit sequence list prepared with marks of the 
applicants selected from those who have secured at least 40% marks in each question paper.
 10.1 examination Results :
    Results will be sent to every applicant personally or can be obtained from the department of examinations 
of Sri Lanka web site www.results.exams.gov.lk.
11.  Conditions of the examination :
 11.1 the examination will be conducted in Sinhala, tamil and English languages. candidates must   answer 
all the papers of the examination only in one language. the language preferred in the application will not 
be allowed to changed later.
 11.2 if a candidate offer for either open or limited examination the fee will be Rs .600.00 .if he offer for the 
both categories the fee will be Rs.750.00.The receipt obtained on payment of this fee to any post office or 
sub post office under the revenue head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations should 
be posted in the relevant place in the application. Retaining a photocopy of the receipt will be useful. 
 11.3 the Examination fee will not be refunded in any circumstance and money orders and stamps will not be 
accepted. the examination fee is not refundable and not transferable to any other examination.
Note- candidates will not be allowed to enter the examination hall without an admission card .the admission 
form in which his/her signature has been duly attested should be submitted to the head of Examination 
centre on the examination day.
  issuance of an admission form to an applicant does not necessarily mean that he/she has the requisite 
qualification to sit for the Examination.
 11.4 the application should accordingly be prepared only on a4 size (21cm x 29.7 cm) paper, so as heads             
1 to 3.4 in the first page, and the rest in the forth page of the application. The relevant particulars should 
be filled by applicant in his /her own hand writing. The name of the examination appears in the heading of 
the application prepared either in Sinhala or tamil language is required to be printed in English language 
as well. applications not in accordance with the specimen and incomplete applications will be rejected 
without notice. further, applicant should check whether the application prepared by him /her is in order 
of the specimen appended to this notification; whether all information is correctly included and affix the 
receipt of the examination fee. it would be advantageous to keep a photocopy of the application with you.
 11.5 Punishment for false information :
  if a candidate is found to be not eligible to sit for this examination in accordance with regulations 
applicable to the examination, his /her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or 
after the examination. if any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is found to be false later or if he/ 
she will fully suppressed any material facts, he/she will not be further considered to offer an appointment 
and if an appointment has been offered to him/her on the results of this examination will be liable for 
dismissal from the public service.
12. 
 12.1 the commissioner General of Examinations will issue admission cards to applicants on pre-determination 
that only the applicants who have fulfilled the qualifications prescribed in the Gazette Notification have 
applied for the examination, who are within the age limit specified in the notification and who have 
forwarded duly completed applications. department of Examinations of Sri Lanka will publish a notice 
in News Papers immediately after issuing admission cards to the applications. any applicant who have 
not received his /her admission card 02 or 03 days after publishing the notice in News Papers, should 
inquire the organization and foreign Examinations Branch of the department of Examinations. the 
inquiry should include the name of examination applied for, full name of applicant, address and Nic 
number correctly. in case of an applicant living outside colombo to obtain a copy of the admission card 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.06.2017
1454
by fax urgently, it would be more productive to notify to the organization and foreign Examinations 
Branch of the department of Examination by faxing a request including your above information and a 
fax number. it is useful to retain a copy of the application, copy of the receipt on payment of examination 
fee and copy of the receipt issued when application was registered by post with you. 
 12.2 candidates are subject to the rules imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations in connection 
with this examination. a candidate who violates any of these rules is liable to a punishment at the 
discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 12.3 Identity of the candidate.– a candidate must prove identity to the satisfaction of the invigilator and only 
one of the following documents will be accepted :-
 (i) National identity card 
 (ii) a  valid Passport.
13.  those who are already in the Public Service should forward applications through heads of their respective 
institutions. the signature of the applicant in the admission card should be attested. an applicant applying for the 
examination through an institution should get his signature attested by his head of institution. other applicants should 
get their signatures attested by a Principal of a Government School, Grama Niladari of the division, a justice of Peace, 
Commissioner for Oaths, an Attorney-at-Law, a Notary Public, a Commissioned officer attached to Armed Forces, a Staff 
Grade officer in the Public or Provincial Public Service drawing an annual salary of Rs.240,360 or above or a Chief Monk 
or chief incumbent of a temple or any other priest of any other religious establishment.
14.  duly completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the below address on or before 31.07.2017. 
Post applied for and department of National Botanic Gardens should be clearly written on the top left hand corner of the 
envelope. one candidate can apply only for one post.
 address:  the commissioner General of  Examinations, 
  department of Examinations,
                                          Pelawatta,
  Battaramulla. 
  
15.  In the event of any inconsistency among notification published in all three languages of this Examination 
Notification “The Sinhala" notification shall prevail.
16.  Any matter not provided for in this notification will be decided by the Director General of Department of 
National Botanic Gardens. 
     
 mr. K.N .
Yapa, ,
                                                                                  the director  General,
 department of National Botanic Gardens,
P.o .Box 14,
Peradeniya. 
ministrY of sustainaBle development and Wild life
department of national Botanic gardens
APPLICATION FOR OPeN AND LIMITeD COMPeTITIVe exAMINATION FOR ReCRuITMeNT TO POSTS IN 
The GRADe 111 OF  The  SRI LANkA TeChNOLOGICAL SeRVICe OFFICeRS -2017
medium of Examination                                                                 Examination applied for 
Sinhala   - 2                                                                                 open         -1
tamil      - 3                                                                                       Limited      -2                     
English   - 4       open and Limited  -3    
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)        (indicate the relevant number in the cage)                                                                                                           

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.06.2017
1455
                                                                                              Post applied for :   
• Garden development assistant        - 1                                                   
• Audio Visual Technology Assistant  - 2
• Research Assistant                             - 3   (one candidate will be allowed 
• Technical Officer (Civil)                     - 4                   for one post only )
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01     1.1  full Name (in English capital letters) :–––––––––––.
         eg.- : hERath mudiyaNSELaGE SamaN KumaRa GuNaWaRdhaNa.
 1.2 Name indicating the last  name first and initials of other names at the end :–––––––––––.
         (in English capital letters)
         (eg.- : GuNaWaRdhaNa.h.m.S.K.)
 1.3 full Name : (in Sinhala /t amil) :–––––––––––.
 1.4 Nationa l identity card Number : 
02.   2.1 Permanent address (in Sinhala /tamil) :–––––––––––.
 2.2 address to which the admission should be sent :–––––––––––.
03.  Gender :
 3.1  male - 0  
         female  - 1  
               (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 3.2  date of Birth -
       y ear :           month :      date : 
 3.3 age as at the closing date of applications:- 
  y ears :  months :  days :
 3.4 t elephone No. : 
04. 4.1  district Residing duration  :–––––––––––––.
 4.2 divisional Secretariat division  :–––––––––––––.
 4.3 Grama Niladhari   division  :–––––––––––––.
05.  Educational Qualifications :
 5.1 G.c.E .(o/L) :
 (i) y ear and month  :–––––––––––––.
 (ii) index Number  :–––––––––––––.
 (iii) Results:
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.06.2017
1456
 5.2 G.c.E .(a/L)
 (i) y ear and month  :–––––––––––––.
 (ii) index Number  :–––––––––––––.
 (iii) Results:
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
06.  Other Qualifications :––––––––––––––.
07.  have you been convicted by a court of Law for any offence.
  (Indicate a √ in the cage) If yes give particulars
                       yes                               No
   ............................................................................................................................................................................... 
   ............................................................................................................................................................................... 
 ............................................................................................................................................................................... 
 
08.  Particulars of examination fee paid :
 (i) date of payment :–––––––––––––.
 (ii) No. of the receipt and date  :–––––––––––––.
 (iii) amount :
Affix the receipt properly
(Keep a photocopy at the receipt with you)
          
09.  declaration of the applicant :
 (a) i respectfully declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to the best of 
my knowledge. i agree to bear the loss which may occur due to incomplete and /or incorrect completion of any 
part of this application. further, i state that, all sections of this application completed is true and correct to the 
best of my knowledge.
 (b) I am aware in the case of this statement being proved incorrect; I am liable to being disqualified before appointed 
and dismissed from service after appointment.  
 (c) further, i declare that i will abide by the rules and terms imposed by the commissioner General of Examination 
with regard to conducting the examination and issuance of results.
 (d) i shall not subsequently change any information stated above.
                                                                                            –––––––––––––,
  applicant’s Signature.
date  :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.06.2017
1457
10. attestation of the signature of the applicant.
 i, certify that mr/mrs/miss………………………………. who submits this application is personally known to 
me, he/she placed his/her signature before me on ……………….(date); the prescribed examinations fees have been duly 
paid and the receipt there of has been affixed herein.
                                                                             –––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attesting officer.
date :–––––––––––––.
11.  full name of attestor  :–––––––––––––.
 (i) designation  :–––––––––––––.
 (ii)  address  :–––––––––––––.
  (please prove by the official seal)
12.  for public servant candidates :
Certificate of the Head of the Department 
i forward herewith the application of mr/mrs/miss …………..………………….. i wish to state that he/she is 
serving in this institute as a permanent /temporary employee and state that his /her performance/attendance/behavior is 
satisfactory/unsatisfactory and he/she /can/cannot be released if he/she is selected for this post.
      
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of  Department and official frank.
date  :–––––––––––––.
Name  :–––––––––––––.
designation  :–––––––––––––.
ministry/department  :–––––––––––––.
06–1084               
                                              
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.