

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.08.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2013
Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
¡ºø —ïÊË  EXTRAORDINARY
¡â¨ 1823/17 – 2013 wf.daia;= 13 Éæ¾ø wÕyrejdod – 2013.08.13
No. 1823/17 – TUESDAY, AUGUST 13, 2013
( Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk.
1A – G 18086 – 170 (2013/08)
My No.: CI/1352.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Ravi Industries Limited, 400, Deans Road, Colombo 10 of the one part and the United Tea,
Rubber and Local Produce Worker’s Union 513-2/1, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 05 of the other part on 24 th day of January 2011, is
hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (R evised
Edition 1956).
V . B. P. K. WEERASINGHE,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
11th July, 2013.
Collective  Agreement  No. 07  of  2011
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT made this 24th day of January, 2011 and take effect from the 1st day of June, 2010 and pursuant to
the Industrial Disputes Act between RA VI INDUSTRIES LIMITED having its registered office at No. 400, Deans Road,  Colombo 10
(hereinafter referred to as the “Employer”) of the one part
and
THE UNITED TEA, RUBBER AND LOCAL PRODUCE WORKERS' UNION a registered Trade Union having its office at 513-2/1,
Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 05 (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
of the second part
WITNESSETH and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows:

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.08.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2013
Title.–This Agreement shall be known and referred to as the RA VI INDUSTRES LIMITED MANUAL WORKERS, COLLEC-
TIVE AGREEMENT of  2010.
PART I
CONTAINING TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT AND MA TTERS INCIDENTAL THERETO AND CONNECTED
THEREWITH
1. Persons Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind the  Employer the Union and the members of the Union who
are employed by the Employer in a manual or labouring capacity on monthly contracts of employment and for whom provision has been
made in the wage scales set out in Schedule 1(a), (b) and (c) of this Agreement.
2. Date of Operation and Duration.–  This Agreement shall  be effective as from the 01st day of September, 2010 and shall
thereafter continue in force unless it is determined by either party giving notice in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act. in writing to the other
subject to the following provisos:
(a) That one party hereto shall not give such notice to the other party before the 31st of August 2013 and  no notice given before
that date shall be regarded as valid.
(b) That in the event of a reduction in the par value of the Sri Lankan Rupee under any provision of Law,  a  party shall be at
liberty to abrogate this agreement by giving one month’s notice in writing to the other in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act.
3. General Terms and Conditions of Employment.– During the continuance in force of this Agreement the terms and conditions of
this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in each contract of service between the Employer bound by this  Agreement and an Employee
coverd and bound by this Agreement  whether such contract of service be written or oral which was subsisting on the date hereof or which
shall come in to being at any time after the date hereof during the continuance in force of this Agreement.
4. Probation.– Every Employee recruited by the Employer shall serve a period of probation of not more than six (6) months.
Provided however, that if during the six (6) months probationary period the  Employer is not satisfied with the progress of such Employee
, the probationary period may be extended for a further period of three (3) months and in that event the Employer shall indicat e to the
Employee in writing the reasons why the probationary period has been extended.  During the period of probation or extended probation the
Employer shall have the right to terminate the Services of the Employee without notice. If the Employee’s services are not terminated for
unsatisfactory service during the period of probation or extended probation and the Employee has not been Confirmed by the Employer the
Employee shall be deemed to be confirmed in his Employer’s service with effect from the day after the day on which the period of probation
or extended probation , as the case may be, ended.
5. Attendance.– 1.Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his Employer an Employee shall present himself for work on
everyday (other than a holiday) at the usual starting time of the store, factory, mill or job and shall there remain available for work throughout
the normal working hours.
2. If, at a store, factory, mill or job, work is temporarily not available for an Employee in  his own occupation he shall be deemed
to be ready and willing to perform work within the capacity and skill in any other occupation at any other work site of the
Employer where work is available.
3. Irregular attendance or unpunctuality of an Employee shall constitute neglect of duty for which he shall be liable to
appropriate disciplinary action.
6. Hours of Work.– The hours of work on a normal working day or on a shift shall be nine and one half (9 1/ 2) hours inclusive of
half (1/ 2) hour interval for a meal and other intervals existing at the date of this Agreement.
7. Forfeiture of Wages.– Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the Employer and Employee fails to hold himself
available for work throughout the normal working hours of each working day he shall forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct his
wages for the period from the time at which such failure occurs until he is again available for work.
8. Overtime.– 1.If required by his Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the
Employer. Refusal to work reasonable overtime in the absence of a satisfactory explanation which is acceptable to the Employer shall
constitute neglect of duty for which an Employee shall be liable to appropriate disciplinary action.
2. Overtime work (that is work performed in excess of normal working hours) shall be remunerated at one and one half (11/2)
times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 16(a) hereof.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.08.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2013
9. Weekly Holiday and Saturdays.– 1. In respect of each week every Employee shall be allowed a paid holiday on a Sunday in that week
as the weekly holiday. provided however, that if an Employee has not worked for a period of at least twenty eight (28) hours,
exclusive of any period of overtime work during that week, he shall be liable to forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to
deduct one day's wage in respect of the weekly holiday for that week computed in accordance with the provisions of clause
16 (b) hereof.
2. In computing the period of twenty eight (28) hours referred to in sub-clause (1) the Employer shall include -
(a) Every holiday allowed by the Employer to Employee as annual holiday;
(b) Every public holiday granted by the Employer in terms of clause 11 hereof;
(c) Every day’s absence on any ground approved by the Employer.
3. The Employer may employ any Employee on a weekly holiday subject to the following conditions:
(i) a day within the six days next succeeding such weekly holiday shall be allowed to that Employee as a holiday with
remuneration. Provided however, that if any Employee who is employed on a weekly holiday is liable to forfeit and the
Employer is entitled to deduct one day’s wage in respect of that weekly holiday as provided in sub-clause (1) then and
in such event that Employee shall forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wage computed in
accordance with the provisions of clause 16(b) hereof in respect of the holiday which shall be allowed to that Employee
within six (6) days of that weekly holiday. Provided further, that in respect of not more than two (2) such weekly
holidays in any one calendar month the Employer may with the consent of the Employee–
(a) instead of allowing an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday in respect of which that
Employee shall not be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall not be entitled to deduct one day’s wage as aforesaid,
pay him one day’s wage computed in accordance with the provisions of clause 16(b) hereof in lieu of such alternate
holiday, or
(b) in case that Employee is entitled to an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday as aforesaid in
respect of which alternate holiday he shall be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct a day’s
wage as aforesaid, employ that Employee on the alternate holiday.
(ii) that in respect of work done on such weekly holiday the Employee shall be paid as remuneration–
(a) one and one half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 16 (a)
hereof for the number of hours worked during the first nine (9) hours (exclusive of one (1) hour for a meal); and
(b) at double the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 16 (a) hereof for each
subsequent hour of work.
The provisions of this Sub-clause shall not apply to employees engaged on work outside the business premises of the Employer
for periods exceeding twelve (12) hours in respect of the duration of each such period.
4. Saturday shall be a non-working day only for Employees for whom it was a non-working day as at present. In their case
where an Employee does not qualify for a paid weekly holiday in tems of this clause he shall forfeit three fifth of his pay for
Saturday if he has worked only 2 days in the week; four fifth of his pay for Saturday if he has worked only one day in the
week and shall receive no pay for the Saturday if he has not worked on any day in the week. For the purpose of this Sub-
clause days worked will be reckoned in terms of sub-clause (2) above.
10. Annual Holidays.– Annual holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in accordance with the decisions of the relevant Wages
Boards. In the case of Employees in the Brush Manufacturing Trade the annual holidays shall be in terms of the decision of the Wages Board
for the Coir Mattress and Bristle Fibre Export Trade.
11. Public Holidays.–  (1) Public holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in accordance with the decisions of the relevant Wages
Boards.  In the case of Employees in the Brush Manufacturing Trade the Public holidays shall be in terms of the decision of the Wages Board
for the Coir Mattress and Bristle Fibre Export Trade. Provided however, that an Employee may be employed on a public holiday in
accordance with the decisions of the aforesaid Wages Boards.
(2) If any public holiday which an Employee is eligible to under the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a Sunday, a day
either in the Six (6) days immediately preceding or in the six (6) days immediately succeeding such public holiday shall
be granted to the employee as a weekly holiday in accordance with the provisions of clause 9 hereof.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.08.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2013
(3) If any public holiday to which an Employee is eligible under the provisions of sub clause (1) falls on a Saturday the
number of hours constituting the normal working day on the day immediately preceding the Saturday shall be five and
one half (5 1/ 2) hours and no interval for a meal shall be granted.
12. Casual Leave.–  (1) In respect of each year of employment during which any Employee has been continuously in employment
that  Employee shall be entitled to take on account of private business or other reasonable cause including ill  health if that  Employee’s
entitlement to sick leave has been fully utilized, leave (hereinafter referred to as ‘Casual Leave’) with remuneration for the period or an
aggregate of periods not exceeding seven (7) days and the Employer shall allow such Casual Leave and shall be liable to pay suc h
remuneration. Provided however, that not more than two (2) days casual leave shall be taken  at any time save  and except upon the ground
of ill health. Provided  further that any employee shall not be entitled to take Casual Leave immediately preceding or immediately following
any period  of annual holidays. Provided further that  in respect of any employee’s first year of employment including any peri od of
probation he shall be entitled to Casual Leave  for that year computed on the basis of one day for each complete period of two months’
service.
(2) Casual leave will normally be granted on application without the Employee being required to state the reason for the
application. Where  an Employer finds it difficult to grant an application for Casual Leave his difficulty shall be notified to
the Employee as soon as possible after the application is made and in such case the Employee may be required to state the
reason for the application in order that the Employer may decide whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant him
Casual Leave.
13. Sick Leave.– In any year an Employee shall be entitled to Sick Leave not exceeding twenty one (21) days provided that.
(a) His illness is supported by a medical certificate from a registered medical practitioner (unless waived by his Employer); and
(b) The employee shall not be on probation within the meaning of clause 4 hereof. Provided however, that an employee who
has been on probation shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the first year of employment be
entitled to Sick Leave not exceeding ten (10) days  if he is confirmed after six (6) months’ probation and Sick Leave not
exceeding five (5) days  if he is confirmed after nine (9) months’ probation.
14. Monthly Consolidated Wages in lieu of CCPI consolidation .– (1) Subject to the provisions of Clause 15 hereof, and the
Employers right to make deductions from wages  in terms of the practices prevailing at the date of this Agreement and also
subject to the existing practices in relation to the performance by Employees of work in other grades (whether in higher or
lower grades), as from the First day of June Two Thousand and Ten each Employee shall be paid upon and subject to the
other terms and conditions herein contained, a monthly consolidated wage on the basis of the scales of consolidated wages
set out in the Schedule 1 hereto.
(2) The scales of consolidated wages set  out in  Schedule 1 hereto include the allowances which were consolidated in terms of
clause 14  of the Collective Agreement No. 20 of 1982.
(3) This Agreement  shall not have the effect of changing the incremental date of an Employee.
(4) The wages of employees who are in employment as at the date of this agreement will be revised as follows:
- A sum of Rs. 500/- would be added to the wages payable to each Employee with effect from the First day of
November Two Thousand and Ten.
- A sum of Rs. 600/- would be added to the wages payable to each Employee with effect from the First day of
November Two Thousand and Eleven.
- A sum of Rs. 600/- would be added to the wages payable to each Employee with effect from the First day of
November Two Thousand and Twelve.
(5) If during the continuance in force of this Agreement the Government of Sri Lanka –
(a) prescribes increases in wages by any written law applicable to categories covered by this Agreement legally obliging
the Employer to make such payment, the Employer shall pay such increases in wages prescribed by such written law
and in terms of such written law;
(b) recommends increases in wages such recommendations will not be applicable to the Employer, irrespective of whether
or not such recommendations are applicable to categories covered by this Agreement.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.08.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2013
(6) ( a) As a matter of goodwill it is agreed that an employee, who is in employment at the date hereof shall receive an ex-gratia
payment of a sum representing the amount added to the wage of each individual employee by virtue of Clause 15(a)(i)
hereof multiplied x 2.
(b) This lump sum payment by way of notional arrears shall not constitute a part of an employee’s earnings for any
purpose whatsoever and shall not attract consequential payments such as overtime, Provident Fund, Trust Fund, etc.
14A. Incentive Payments.– The existing system of incentive payments shall continue subject to the changes in norms agreed with
the Union more fully described in Schedule 2. In the event there are similar products to those described in Schedule 2 the new norms will
apply to those products as well. The Incentive rates will be changed every November at the time of consolidation of wages.
    15. Conversion to Scales of Monthly Consolidated Wages.–
(a) For the purpose of ascertaining the wage which an Employee shall receive with effect from the First day of June Two
Thousand and Ten on the basis of scales of consolidated wages set out in the Schedule 1 hereto the following provisions
Subject to the provisions of Clause 14 above shall apply.
(i) All employees shall be given an increase in wage of a sum equivalent to twelve (12) per cent of their wages as at 31 st
May Two Thousand and Ten.
(ii) Each employee shall thereafter be placed at the corresponding point on the wage scale in Schedule 1 without change in
grade and if there is no corresponding point in terms of money value, the next higher stage on the same grade.
(b) The wage increases referred to at Clause 15(a)(i) hereof is in consideration of the agreement reached between the Union and
the Employer for higher  output norms as per Shcedule 2.
16. Wages for periods less than one month.– For the purpose of this Agreement the wages of any employee for periods less than
one month shall be computed in the manner following:
(a) for one hour the monthly wage divided by two hundred and forty (240)
(b) for one day the monthly wage divided by thirty (30)
(c) for one half day a day’s wage ascertained as above divided by two (2)
(either morning or afternoon)
(d) for one week a day’s wage ascertained as above multiplied by seven (7)
17. Annual lump sum payment in lieu of NRCOLG .-  (1) A lump sum payment based on revenue growth would be made in
April each year on the following basis.
FOB Turnover Growth (FOB Turnover for the year less FOB Turnover for the previous year / FOB Turnover for the previous
year) % 
¯ Average Basic Salary that prevailed at the beginning of the year (April) X 12 subject to a minimum payment of Rs. 14,000 per
year and a maximum payment equivalent to 2 months' average basic salary that pre vailed at the beginning of the year. Pro rated deductions
will be made from employees who have registered no pay during the year.
(2) No Provident Fund, Trust Fund, Overtime or any other payment shall be due or calculated on this lump sum payment.
18. Provident Fund .- (1)The Employer and an Employee shall contribute to the Provident Fund at rates prescribed by the
Employees’ Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958.
(2) Subject to the provisions of the Employees' Trust Fund Act, No. 46 of 1980 where the Employer and Employee as at the
date hereof were contributing to Provident Fund at rates more favourable than those prescribed by the Employee's
Provident Fund Act, the more favourable rates of contribution will continue.
19. Terminal Benefits.– The Employer will pay terminal benefits to employees in accordance with the Gratuity Act, No. 12
of 1983.
20. Bonus.– (1) Without prejudice to existing bonus schemes and without prejudice to the Employer’s claim that bonus payment
in the past and as provided in this Agreement are ex-gratia, the Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, continue to pay to each of
his employees a bonus which will not be less that the sum of money paid to him as his bonus for the year immediately preceding the signing
of the Agreement No. 20 of 1982. If in any year the Employer, in his discretion reduces the bonus to an amount less than the sum of money
paid to each of his Employees as bonus for the year immediately preceding the signing of Agreement No. 20 of 1982 the Union may canvas
such reduction of bonus with the Employer concerned. If the Union is not satisfied by the Employer in the matter, the Union may pursue

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.08.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2013
this matter with the Employers Federation of Ceylon. If the dispute as to the reduction of bonus is not settled with the Federation, the same
shall be referred to a committee of three (3) persons (hereinafter referred to as a ‘Bonus Committee’) which shall be constituted in accordance
with the provisions of sub-clause 2 for settlement in the manner hereinafter set forth.
(2) At the written request of the parties to the dispute as to the reduction of the bonus the Commissioner General of Labour
will constitute a Bonus Committee which shall consist of three (3) senior Accountants nominated by the Council of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. The said Chartered Accountants shall be persons with at least ten (10)
years’ post qualification experience. The selection of the three Chartered Accountants will be communicated by the
Institute of Chartered Accountants to the Commissioner General of Labour, the Employer, the Union and to the Federa-
tion. Thereupon the Commissioner General of Labour will communicate in writing to each member of the Bonus Committee
so constituted a statement of principles and procedures by which the members of the Bonus Committee shall be bound in
settling the dispute as to the reduction of Bonus.
(3) Upon receipt of the submissions and the statement of the principles and procedures from the Commissioner General of
Labour the Bonus Committee shall in accordance with the said principles and procedures decide whether the reduction of
the bonus by the Employer was justified and if the reduction was not justified to what extent, if any, the bonus should be
reduced. The Bonus Committee shall communicate its decision in writing to the Employer, the Union, the Federation and
the Commissioner General of Labour. If the decision of the Bonus Committee is unanimous, such decision shall be final and
binding on the parties to the dispute and the Union and/or its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of
Trade Union action or otherwise during the continuance in force of this Agreement. If, however, the Bonus Committee is
divided in its decision then the decision of the Commissioner General of Labour on the matter shall be final and binding on
the parties to the dispute and the Commissioner General’s decision shall be communicated in writing to the Federation and
the Union or its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of Trade Union action or otherwise during the
continuance in force of this Agreement.
(4) The Bonus Committee shall not be entitled nor be competent to decide that in any year the Employer should pay his
Employees a bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus as in the year immediately preceding the signing of
Agreement No. 20 of 1982.
(5) The fees payable to the members of the Bonus Committee shall be borne equally by the parties to the dispute as to the
reduction of bonus and be payable on demand by the Commissioner General of Labour.
(6) the payment of a bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus to employees in the year immediately preceding the
signing of Agreement No. 20 of 1982 shall be in the sole discretion of the Employer and shall not be called in question by
the Union and / or its members nor shall the Employer’s failure or refusal to pay such bonus be the subject of any dispute.
(7) The provisions of sub-clauses (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), and (6) shall mutatis mutandis apply to existing bonus scheme.
(8) At the request of the Commissioner General of Labour the council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
will nominate three (3) chartered accountants with not less than ten (10) years of post qualification experience drawn from
professional accountancy firms to serve on the Bonus Committee.
21. Annual Increments.– 1. The annual increments provided in each grade of the scales of consolidated wages in the  Schedule 1
hereto shall be automatic, unless as a matter of punishment for general inefficiency including irregular attendance or unpunctu ality or
disciplinary action on account of serious misconduct an increment is suspended, stopped or deferred in which case where an increment is –
(a) deferred, the loss of increment shall be continuous throughout the year;
(b) stopped, the loss of increment shall only be for the period of stoppage during the year;
(c) susupended, the increment is suspended pending a decision to defer or stop an increment, such decision being dependent
upon a consideration of the factors giving rise to the suspension. Where on such decision an increment is neither stopped
nor deferred, then the suspension shall be treated as waived and the full increment from the date of suspension thereof shall
occur to the employee concerned.
Deferment, stoppage or suspension of an increment shall only be effected in cases where the Employee has been notified, in writing
of a complaint against such Employee and has been found guilty after due inquiry of inefficiency, fraud or misconduct which in the
circumstances does not merit termination of employment.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.08.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2013
(2) With effect from 1st June 2010 the incremental rates in Schedule 1 will be revised as follows :
Skilled Rs. 80/ -
Semi Skilled Rs. 60/ -
Unskilled Rs. 40/ -
22. Productivity Bonus Scheme.– Effective from the first day of June Two Thousand and Ten the Employer will pay a productivity
bonus in the following manner:
The productivity bonus for a section for a shift will be calculated as follows –
(a) (B - A)/ A * C* D
A - Average output per shift (arrived at considering outputs given during January to March 2010)
B - Agreed Output per Shift (as Set out in Shedule 2)
C - Number of hours per shift
D - Average wage per hour - This has been calculated as Rs. 64.00 based on the average basic wage as at 31st May 2010 and
will be revised solely at the discretion of the employer.
(b) The productivity bonus for the company will be calulated as follows. The amounts calculated as stated above for all the
sections for a month will be totalled and an equal amount to the total will be added. The final figure will be the Total
Productivity bonus payable among the employees for the month.
(c) The total Productivity Bonus payable will be divided equally among employees covered by this agreement.
(d) In the case of employee who have registered no pay days during a month the amount that they are entitled to under (c)
above will be pro rata reduced.
23. Productivity Improvement and Elimination of Waste .– The Employees agree to cooperate with the employer to enhance
productivity levels, comply with health and safety procedures and practices, various projects implemented by management to mini mize
waste in all forms in the mutual interest of preserving the future of the Company.
24. Warnings.– If in the opinion of the Employer an offence warrants a warning the same shall be conveyed to the Employee, by
a letter, a duplicate of which shall be signed by the Employee. If the Employee refuses to sign the duplicate the warning may be given to the
Employee orally by the Employer in the presence of two witnesses.
25. Suspension.– 1. An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer–
(a) Pending an inquiry to be held by the Employer on a charge or charges of misconduct which warrants dismissal;
(b) In order to avoid a breach of the peace or damage to the property or disturbance of business of the Employer;
(c) As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding seven (7) working days after the inquiry;
2. At the time of suspension under sub-clause (1)(a) or within twenty-four (24) hours thereof the Employer shall provide
the Employee with a written order of suspension specifying the reasons for such suspension and thereafter, hold an
inquiry into the charge or charges in terms of clause 26 hereof.
26. Disciplinary Action.– Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an Employee then:
1. Irrespective of whether an Employee has been suspended under Clause 25 hereof or not, the  Employee shall be furnished
with a show cause notice, which shall set out the particulars of the charge or  charges of misconduct alleged against such
Employee and such show cause notice shall give the Employee not less than Three (3) clear working days in which to give
the answer or explanation to the charge or charges preferred.
2. within Three (3) clear working days after the date of the show cause notice, the Employee shall furnish in writing to the
Employer, the answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such Employee. Provided however that if in the
circumstances it is reasonable, the employee may ask the Employer for an extension of time within which to furnish a
written answer or explanation to the show cause notice  and where such request is made by the Employee to the Employer,
the Employer shall grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the
case.
3. If the Employer  is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee, the Employee shall, if he is under
suspension  forthwith be reinstated and shall  be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of such suspension.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.08.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2013
4. If the Employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee to the show cause notice and such
answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within Ten (10)  working days
from the date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice.
5. After holding such inquiry the Employer shall notify the  Employee of the findings of each of the charges in the show cause
notice and the punishment, If any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if the Employer fails to make an order except
for reasons beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in the show cause notice within thirty (30)  working days
from the conclusion of the inquiry into such charges, the Employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect
of such charges and no inference adverse to the Employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.
6. If the employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes order that;
(a) The employee shall not be dismissed then the Employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall subject to the
provisions of sub-clause 23(1)(c) hereof be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of suspension irrespec-
tive of such other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the findings as to the
charges in the show cause notice;
(b) The employee shall be dismissed, the Employee’s dismissal shall take effect from the date of the Employee’s suspen-
sion and accordingly the Employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension;
(c) In view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show cause notice against the Employee, the Employer
is unable to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police or other authorities
for further investigations or inquiries and that the matter be therefore referred to Police or  other authorities or if in view
of the serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the Employee the matter had been previously referred
to the Police or  other authorities for investigations or inquiries that the outcome of such investigations or inquiries be
awaited, then in either of such circumstances the employee may remain suspended without pay.
7. If in any case where an Employee is suspended as provided for herein the Employer fails to make order under paragraphs
(a) to (c) of the preceding sub-clause for any reason other than that of the Employee’s own seeking within thirty (30)
working days from  the date of the Employee’s suspension, the Employee shall be entitled to half his normal remuneration
for a period of thirty (30) days from the date of such suspension and to his full remuneration for the period of suspension
in excess of thirty (30) days up to the date on which the Employer makes and order under paragraphs ( a) to (c) of the
preceding  sub-clause, irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
8. In any case where an Employee is suspended as provided for herein the Employer shall make an order under paragraphs
(a) to (c) of  sub-clause 6  within ninety (90) days of the date of suspension of the Employee unless he is prevented from
so doing by reason of the Employee’s own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreed between
the  Employer and the Union that in the circumstances of the case the period of  ninety (90) days be extended for such
further time  as may be agreed.
9. The Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in sub-clauses 4 and 5 hereof where the Employer
proposes  to warn the Employee or where the Employee admits to the charge or charges. Provided however, that if the
Union disputes the warning or punishment imposed on the Employee by the Employer and requests the holding of an
inquiry the Employer shall comply with such request and the provisions relating to the holding of an inquiry shall then
apply subject to the exception that the fact that the inquiry had not commenced within ten (10) working days after the
receipt of the Employee’s  explanation shall not be material or relevant.
27. Retirement.– On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years an Employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be Employed by the
Employer and there shall be no obligation on the Employer to give the Employee any notice of such retirement. Provided however, that an
Employee who has retired  may, in the discretion of the Employer, be employed after his retirement on a temporary basis on such terms as
may be mutually agreed.
28. Termination of Services.- (1) Every contract,whether oral or written, for the hire of any Employee by the Employer except for
work usually performed by the day, or by the job, or by the journey, shall (subject to the provisions of clause 4 hereof or unless otherwise
expressly stipulated) be deemed  and taken in law to be a contract for hire and service for the period of one month and to be renewable from
month to month and shall be deemed and taken in law to be so renewed, unless one month’s previous notice be given by either party to the
other of his intention to determine the same and such month has expired.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.08.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2013
(2) Where an Employee is engaged for a particular job or period such as casual  or temporary work, he shall be informed thereof
at the commencement of his employment and his contract of service will terminate on the completion of the job or period
or the failure of the Employee to complete the job within reasonable time.
29. Union Recognition.- The Union shall be competent to make representations on behalf  of any of its members who is employed
in any workplace of the Employer bound by this Agreement. In regard to issues of general application or to the effect of principle such as
matters affecting general terms and conditions of employment either in the workplace or the trade as whole, the following provi sions
shall apply.
(1) When the Union is  representative of not less than forty per cent. (40%) of the employees  whose membership subscription
is not in arrears, the Employer of such employees will recognize the Union for the purpose of general claims and matters
and negotiate with it on that basis. If there is any other Union which is also representative of  not less than forty percent
(40%) of such employees the Employer will be at liberty to require that general claims and matters be discussed and
negotiated with the Union competent to make general demands by virtue of the requisite membership and not separately
with each such Union.
(2) When the Employer carries on more than one type of business or has more than one workplace and the claim or matter is
restricted to one type of business or one workplace but is applicable or capable of being applicable to other Employees in
the service of the Employer, the competence of the Union to make such claims or raise such matter shall be determined by
reference to the duly qualified members of such Union in proportion to the total number of Employees in the service of the
Employer in Sri Lanka.
30. Disputes procedure.– (1) In the first instance the Union shall submit any demand  on behalf of its members to the Employer of
such members and give the Employer at least ten (10) working days time within which to reply.  If in the Union’s opinion the Employe’s
reply is unsatisfactory the Union and the Employer shall explore the possibility reaching a settlement.
(2) When the union concludes that negotiations with the Employer have been abortive it shall ask the Department of Labour
to intervene and give the Department not less than ten (10) working day’s to arrange Conference and/or discussions with
a View to a settlement of the  dispute. Negotiations under the aegis of the Department of Labour shall then proceed until
the Department of Labour reports failure.
(3) Subject to the provisions of clause 30 hereof all disputes between the Union and the Employer or between the parties
hereto shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.
(4) Any party to this Agreement shall not instigate, support or engage in any unfair Labour practice during the currency of this
AGREEMENT.
31. How Anomalies In The Course of Implementing  this Agreement Shall be Dealt With .- Any anomaly, arising from the
implementation of this Agreement shall be settled by negotiation between the Employer and the Union and if the matter cannot be settled
by negotiation, it shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.
32. Trade Union Action.– The union and Employees  jointly and severally agree with the Employer that during the continuance in
force of this agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of trade union action against the Employer, in respect of any dispute
between the Union or the Employees and the Employer, whether or not such dispute is  related to the  Agreement, except where such dispute
has been caused by an act of the Employer which in the opinion of the controlling body (by whatsoever name called) of the union is mala
fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of the union and/or its members or is grossly
unfair or seriously detrimental to the interest of the union and/or its members. Provided however that at least seven (7) days notice in writing
shall be given by the union to the Employer, the Federation and the Commissioner General of Labour before the date of commencement of
any intended strike or other form of trade union action consequent upon an act of the Employer which in the opinion of the controlling body
(by whatsoever name called)  of the union is mala fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate
activities of the union and/or its members or is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental to the interest of the union and/or its members.
33. Variation of terms and conditions of Employment or Benefits.–  (1) The Union and the employees jointly and severally agree
with the Employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary, alter or  add to all or any of the terms
and conditions of employment presently applicable to any of the employees covered and bound by this agreement  as amended or altered
in terms of  this Agreement, all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by  any of the employees covered and bound by this agreement other
than by mutual agreement.

<!-- page 10 -->

10 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.08.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2013
(2) The Employer agrees with the union and the Employees that the Employer shall not seek to vary, alter or withdraw all or
any of the benefits presently enjoyed by  the employees other than by mutual agreement.
(3) Any dispute or difference arising from negotiations under the provision of sub-clauses 1 or 2 may be resolved by voluntary
avbitration but only if all the parties, concerned agree to submit such dispute or difference for settlement by voluntary
arbitration.
PART II
CONTAINING  THE  FACILITIES  AND  CONCESSIONS  GRANTED  BY  THE  EMPLOYER  TO  THE  UNION
1. Breaches of Collective Agreement.– If in the opinion of the Employer and the Federation, the Union shall commit a breach of any
of he terms of this Agreement, then and in any such event the Union shall cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities and concessions granted
by the Employer in the succeeding clasuses of this Part and same shall stand withdrawn without prejudice to the Employer’s right to restore
such facilities and concessions upon such terms and conditions as the Employer may decide:
2. Domestic Inquiries.– If  an employee who is furnished with a show cause notice in terms of clause 24 is a member of the union,
the following provisions shall apply to the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show cause notice-
(a) The Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, allow another member of the Union (hereinafter referred to as ‘an
Observer’) to be present as an observer without loss of wages for  absence from work.
(b) If the Employer who is served with a show cause notice desires an ‘Observer’ to be present at the inquiry to be held pursuant
to such show cause notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at least before the time appointed for the commencement of the
inquiry submit to the Employer the name of such  Observer.
(c) An Observer may answer any questions which the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an Observer shall not
be entitled to represent the Employee who is served with a show cause notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.
(d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to require an Observer who obstructs such inquiry, in any manner
whatsoever to withdraw therefrom and an Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.
(e) The absence of an Observer from the whole or part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, nor
the proceedings there at, nor the findings pursuant thereto.
3. Union Meetings.– The following Provisions shall apply to  Meetings of the Union:-
(a) In respect of each meeting, which the  Union desires to hold at the Employer’s premises, and application for permission shall
be previously made to the Employer.
(b) If the employer decides to grant permission, theEmployer shall be entitled to impose inter-alia, one or more of the under
noted conditions
(i) That no person other than an Employee in the service of that Employer shall be present at a meeting of the union;
(ii) On occasions such as the Annual General Meeting of the Union, the Bearers of the Parent Union may with the previous
approval of the employer, attend;
(iii) Fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Union  shall be concluded or adjourned.
(c) It shall be the duty of the Union and  its Office Bearers to ensure that the terms on which permission to hold a meeting of the
Union is granted, are duly complied with.
(d) It shall be the duty of the Union and  its Office Bearers to ensure that no damage is caused in the course of the, or in connection
with a meeting of the Union to the Employer’s property or any other persons at the Employer’s  premises and the Union
shall indemnify the Employer and keep the Employer indemnified against any such damage.
4. Duty Leave.–  (1) The following provisions shall apply to duty leave:
Without prejudice to the right of the Employer, to refuse to grant permission if in his discretion the exigencies of the
circumstances warrant refusal, the Employer will generally grant permission for not less than two (2) office bearers of
the Union

<!-- page 11 -->

11 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.08.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2013
(a) To be present at conferences held under  the aegis of the Employer or the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon or the
Department of Labour in connection with a dispute between the Union and the Employer.
or
(b) To attend  inquiries  before  Industrial Courts, Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals–
without loss of wages for such absence.
2. The Employer will in his discretion grant leave without remuneration to an employee to attend a Trade Union course or
seminar or conference, either in Sri Lanka or abroad unless the employee concerned is entitled to  annual or other holidays
which he wishes to utilise for the purpose.
(5) Check-off.- (1) The facility of check-off shall be granted, subject to Clause 1 of Part II hereof only so long as the Union
represents no less than forty (40) percent of the Employees covered and bound by this Collective Agreement.
(2) The Employer shall on the written request of an Employee deduct from the wages due to such Employees the current
monthly Union dues as are specified by the Employee to be payable monthly by the employee to the Union and remit the
amount so deducted to the Union in accordance with the procedure and upon and subject to the conditions hereinafter
setforth.
(3) Every employee who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his wages shall sign a statement to that effect in the form
set out in Form No. 1 referred to as an ‘Authorization’.
(4) Every Employee shall be entitiled to withdraw his agreement to check-off at any time by signing a statement to that effect
in the form set out in Form No. 2 hereinafter referred to as a ‘Revocation’.
(5) As far as practicable deduction under an authorization shall commence from the wages due immediately after the date of
receipt of such authorization and shall continue thereafter untill the authorization is cancelled by a revocation.
(6) As far as practicable deductions under and authorization shall cease from the date of receipt of a revocation cancelling such
authorization. Provided however –
(a) that the Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the Union or the Employee concerned for failure to
comply with sub-clause 5 or 6;
(b) that at his discretion the Employer shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of check-off in any month in which
the deductions from the Employee’s wages in that month exceed the deduction permitted by Law.
(7) The Employer shall not later than the tenth (10th) day of each month remit the Union dues deducted from the wages of the
Employees in the month immediately preceding, to the Treasurer of the Union in accordance with the tenor of each
authorization by a cheque payable to the Treasurer thereof and crossed ‘Account Payee’.
(8) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union and the Employees concernd by post in a prepaid envelope addressed to
the Treasurer of the Union at its address for the time being.
(9) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
(10) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or the Treasurer on its behalf as aforesaid any sum other than the
Union’s dues actually deducted.
FORM N
O. 1
Name of Employer:                                                     RA VI INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Authorization
As I am an Employee covered and bound by the RA VI INDSUTRIES LIMITED COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 2010 and I desire to avail
myself of the facility for check-off  contained in the Collective Agreement to which I am eligible as a member of the UNITED TE A,

<!-- page 12 -->

12 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.08.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2013
RUBBER AND LOCAL PRODUCE WORKERS' UNION, please deduct from my wages each month a sum of Rupees ……………… (Rs.
) in respect of my current monthly membership dues to the said Union and remit same to the said Union on my behalf. The first payment
should please be made from my wages due immediately following the date hereof.
……………………………… ………………………………
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
……………………………… ………………………………
(Full name of Employee) (Checkroll Number)
Received on ………………………………
(To be filled by the Employer)
FORM NO. 2
Name of Employer:                                                     RA VI INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Revocation
With reference to the authorization submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my wages any further membership dues in favour  of
UNITED TEA, RUBBER AND LOCAL PRODUCE WORKERS' UNION, with effect from the wages next due to me immediately
following the date hereof.
……………………………… ………………………………
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
……………………………… ………………………………
(Full name of Employee) (Checkroll Number)
Received on ………………………………
(To be filled by the Employer)
PART III
CONTAINING  DEFINITIONS OF CERTAIN WORDS
In Parts I and II of this Agreement unless excluded by the Subject or context, the following words shall have the meaning set opposite to
them.
Words Meaning
Branch Union The Branch Union at the factory
Check-off The act of the Employer deducting in terms of Clause 5 of Part II the subscriptions
payable to the Union by an employee from the latter’s pay.
Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.
Employee An employee covered and bound by this Agreement.
(For convenience sometimes referred to
as ‘he’ or its grammatical variations)
Employer Ravi Industries Ltd

<!-- page 13 -->

13 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.08.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2013
Federation Employers’ Federation of Ceylon
Industrial Disputes Act The Indusrial Disputes Act No. 43 of 1950
Normal Incremental Date The date on which and employee would normally receive and increment
Relevant Wages Board The Wages Board which covers the Trade in which the particular employee is employed in
Union United Tea Rubber and Local produce workers Union
W age The monthly wage according to the scales of consolidated wages in the First Schedule hereto.
Week The period between midnight on any Saturday night and midnight on the succeeding
Saturday night.
Y ear A continuous period of twelve (12) months
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA