

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 264]
————————
Presented by the Hon.  Hector Appuhamy, M.P.
for Puttlam District on  05th of June, 2024
(Published in the Gazette on May 08, 2024)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 18.00 Postage : Rs. 150.00
——————
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
J. C. ALAWATHUWELA FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the J. C. Alawathuwela Foundation

<!-- page 2 -->

J. C. Alawathuwela Foundation (Incorporation) 1
5
10
15
20
Short title
Incorporation
of the J. C.
Alawathuwela
Foundation
Preamble
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE J. C. ALAWATHUWELA
FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a  Centre called and known as the “J. C.
Alawathuwela Foundation” has heretofore been formed in
Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the said
Foundation according to the rules agreed to by the members:
AND WHEREAS the said F oundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application:
BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the J. C. Alawathuwela
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2024.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the “J. C.
Alawathuwela Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the corporation hereby constituted shall be a Corporation with
perpetual succession under the name and style of
“J. C. Alawathuwela Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as
the “Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued and
have full power and  authority to have and use a common seal
and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Coporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be:–
( a) to promote ethics and culture, create necessary
resources and maintain.
General
objects of the
corporation

<!-- page 3 -->

2 J. C. Alawathuwela Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation
25
(b) to promote peace,goodwill, understanding and
cooperation among all communities and people of
Sri Lanka;
(c) to laise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign
institutions which have similar objects.
4.  (1) The of the affairs of the Corporation shall, subject
to the other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for
the time being of the corporation be administered by a
Committee of Management consisting of Chairman,
Secretary, Treasurer  elected in accordance with such rules.
(2) The founder member of the Foundation, Honourable
Member J. C. Alawathuwela shall be the Chairman of the
Board of Directors for life thereafter, the family members of
the person who was holding office as the Chairman shall
become the next Chairman of the Board of Directors.
(3) The first Committee of Management shall consist of
the members of the Governors board holding office on the
day immediately preceding the date of commencement of
this Act.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation any one of
them, to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow
or raise moneys with or without security to receive or collect
or accept grants and donations to invest its funds to the
Corporation and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and
servants required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
General
Powers of the
Corporation
30

<!-- page 4 -->

J. C. Alawathuwela Foundation (Incorporation) 3
5
10
15
20
25
6. (1) It shall be  lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any General Meeting of the members and by a
majority of not less than two thirds of the members present
to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act or any other written law, on all or any of the following
matters:-
(a) the classification of members, and the admission,
withdrawal, expulsion of members;
(b) the election of office bearers, the resignation from,
vacation of or removal from office bearers and their
powers, conduct and duties;
(c) the election of the members of the Committees of
the Management and its powers, conduct duties and
duration of term of office;
(d) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of Corporation;
(e) the procedure to be observed at and the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Committee of
Management and of the time, places, notices and
agenda of such meetings, the quorum thereof and
the conduct of business thereof;
(f) the administrations and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts; and
(g) the management of the affairs of the Corporation,
and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
Rules of the
Corporation

<!-- page 5 -->

4 J. C. Alawathuwela Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Corporation
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Corporation on the
day  preceding the date of commencement of this act, shall
be paid and discharge by the
 Corporation hereby constituted
and all debts due to,  subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Corporation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purposes of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
monyes heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or
grants for and on account of the Corporation shall be
deposited to the credit of the Body Corporate in one or more
banks as the Committee of Management shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and function under this Act.
9.    Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold any
property, movable and immovable which may become vested
in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, lease, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise and all such property shall be held
by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act and subject to
the rules of the Corporation made under section 06, with
power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose
of  the same.
10. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or
institutions having objects similar to those of the Corporation
and which, is or are by its or their rules  prohibited from
distributing any income or property among their members.
30
Fund of the
Corporation
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable
Property
remaining on
dissolution
35

<!-- page 6 -->

J. C. Alawathuwela Foundation (Incorporation) 5
5
10
15
20
25
11. (1) The financial year of the corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation  shall be audited
annually by the Auditor General or qualified auditor
appointed by the Auditor General in the terms of Article 154
of the Constitution.
(4) For the purpose of this section “qualified auditor”
means–
(a) An individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or  any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute; or
(b) A firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any other institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as an Accountant, issued by the Council of such
Institute.
12. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of two
members of the Committee of Management, who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence and
such signing shall be independent of the signing of any person
as a witness.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic, or
corporate or of any other persons.
Audit and
accounts of
the
Coporation
Seal of the
Corporation
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6 J. C. Alawathuwela Foundation (Incorporation)
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistancy

<!-- page 8 -->

J. C. Alawathuwela Foundation (Incorporation) 7
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING