

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 211]
————————
Presented by Hon. Dinesh Gunawardena, M. P. for
Colombo District on 09th of October, 2017.
(Published in the Gazette on September 25, 2017)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed.
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
2-2d
2-
Price : Rs. 18.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
2—PL 010374— 260 (10/2017)
SRI  SHAKYASINHARAMA  VIHARASTHA
KARYASADHAKA  SANVIDANAYA
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Sri Shakyasinharama Viharastha Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

1Sri Shakyasinharama Viharastha Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya (Incorporation)
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
2 PL 005447— 300 (09/2017)
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SRI SHAKYASINHARAMA
VIHARASTHA KARYASADHAKA SANVIDANAYA
WHEREAS an Organization called and known as the
“Sri Shakyasinharama Viharastha Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya” has heretofore been created for the purpose of
effectually carrying out and transacting all objects and matters
connected with the said Organization:
AND WHEREAS the said Organization has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters of the Organization and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Shakyasinharama
Viharastha Karyasadhaka Sanvidanaya (Incorporation) Act,
No.   of 2017.
2. From  and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as presently are members of the
“Sri Shakyasinharama Viharastha Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya” (hereinafter referred to as the “Association”)
or shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation
hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate (hereinafter
referred to as “the Corporation”) with perpetual succession
under the name and style of the “Sri Shakyasinharama
Viharastha Karyasadhaka Sanvidanaya” and by that name
and may sue and be sued in all courts with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and alter the same
at its pleasure.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the Sri
Shakyasinharama
Viharastha
Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Sri Shakyasinharama Viharastha Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to develop the educational, economical, religious,
cultural and social needs of the members of our
organizaion and to the low income families
including the needy people, act in the disaster
situations and creating the feeling of positive
thinking among the public to achieve the expected
benefits;
(b) to attend activities on religious development and
the development of the persons;
(c) implementation of  activities leading to educational
development;
(d) to promote values and morals;
(e) to make awareness of Sinhala, English and Sanskrit
and other languages, computer and technical
knowledge among school children, student monks
in Pirivenas and elderly people;
(f) to implement religious and cultural programmes;
(g) to contribute to social welfare;
(h) to implement programmes to assist the disabled and
elderly people;
(i) to develop, protect and conservation of our temple
and its other associated temples and those monks;
(j) to develop areas that should be developed; and
(k) to perform all other things that are incidental or
appropriate for the fulfillment of the objectives of
the Corporation stated above.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Sri Shakyasinharama Viharastha Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power—
(a) to purchase, rent lease otherwise acquire lands or
buildings which may be required for the purposes
of the Corporation;
(b) to borrow or raise money with or without interest for
the purposes of the Corporation;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, maintain and close bank
accounts;
(d) to invest any funds which are not immediately
required for the purposes of the Corporation in such
manner as the Council of Management may think
fit;
(e) to solicit and receive subscriptions, grants, donations
and gifts of all kinds;
(f) to enter into agreements or contracts with any person,
company or body of persons;
(g) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and
administer any lawful trusts and conditions affecting
any movable or immovable property;
(h) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as
may be determined by the Corporation; and
(i) to do all such acts and things as may be necessary
incidental or conducive to the accomplishment of
all or any of the objects of the Corporation.
General
powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Sri Shakyasinharama Viharastha Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, be
administered by a Board of Management appointed in
accordance with the rules of the Corporation.
(2) The first  Board of Management of the Corporation
shall consist of the members of the  Board of Management of
the Organization holding office on the day preceding the
date of commencement of this Act.
(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in sub-
section (1) of this Section the Chairman of the Board of
Management is the lifetime Chairman of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time at any meeting of the members and by a majority of not
less than two thirds of the members present and voting to
make rules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or
any other written law and the any of the following matters:—
(a) the election, appointment or nomination of the
members of the  Board of Management and their
powers and duties and terms of office;
(b) the powers, conduct of duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(c) the procedure to be observed at the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Board of Management, the time, place, notice and
agenda of such meetings, the quorum therefore and
the conduct of the business thereat;
(d) the qualifications and disqualifications for the
membership of Board of management of the
Corporation;
Rules of the
Corporation.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Sri Shakyasinharama Viharastha Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds and
maintenance and audit of the accounts; and
(f) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its
objects.
(2) Any rules made under sub-section (1) may in a like
meeting and in like manner be rescinded, be amended, altered
or added.
(3) The rules of the Organization in force on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this
Act, shall in so far, as they are not inconsistant with the
provisions of this Act, or any other written law be deemed to
be the rules of the Corporation made under this Act.
(4) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys received by way of gifts, testamentary dispositions,
transfers, donations, contribution of fees and all sums of money
received by the Corporation in the exercise, discharge and
performance of its powers, functions and duties shall be
deposited in the name of the Corporation in one or more
banks as may be decided by the Board of Management.
(2) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fund or
a sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation, development
or improvement of the property of the Corporation,
(3) There shall be paid out of the fund of the Corporation
all sums of money to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Sri Shakyasinharama Viharastha Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
8. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of all income and expenditure of the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
annually by the auditors appointed by the Corporation.
(3) The financial year of the Corporation shall be from 1st
of January to 31st December of every year.
9. All debts and liabilities of the Organization existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to and all subscriptions and fees payable to the
Organization on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
10. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to Association or Associations having
objects similar to the objects of the Corporation, and which
is or are by the rules thereof prohibited  from distributing any
income or profit among the members. Such Association or
Associations shall be determined by the members of the
Corporation at or immediately before the time of dissolution
of the Corporation.
11. The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody
of the Secretary of the Corporation and it shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of a
member duly appointed by the Chairman or the Vice Chairman
who shall sign their names to the instrument in token of their
presence and such signing shall be independent of the signing
of any person as a witness.
Audit of
accounts of
the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Organization.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Sri Shakyasinharama Viharastha Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya (Incorporation)
5
12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic of Sri Lanka or of any body
politic or corporate or of any other persons except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Sri Shakyasinharama Viharastha Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya (Incorporation)