

<!-- page 1 -->

163 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013.09.27
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
wxl 1"830 - 2013 iema;eïn¾ 27 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'09'27
No. 1,830 – FRIDAY , SEPTEMBER  27, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II — LEGAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE PAGE
Laws ... —
Bills ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
Notifications of Criminal Sessions of the Supreme Court —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... ––
List of Notaries ... ––
Miscellaneous Notices ... 164
163
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 17th October, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 04th
October, 2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SILV A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www. documents. gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B.– Part IV A of the Gazette No. 1829 of 20.09.2013 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

164  II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013.09.27
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
Miscellaneous Notices
NOTICE  OF  WINDING  UP
In the High Court of the Western Province
(Holden in Colombo) in the Exercise of its civil
jurisdiction
IN the matter of Aero Lanka (Private)
Limited of No. 24, Col. T. Jayewardena
Mawatha, Colombo 03, formerly known as
Serendib Express (Pvt) Ltd., of No. 500,
Galle Road, Colombo 06.
AND
In the matter of an application for
Winding up by Court under and in terms of
Part XII of the Companies act No.07 of
2007.
Indian Oil Corporation Limited,
G-9, Ali Yavar jung Marg,
Bandra (East) Mumbai - 400 051,
India.
................................Petitioner.
NOTICE is hereby given that a Petition for the winding up of the
above - named Company by the High Court of the Western Province
(Holden in Colombo) in the exercise of its Civil jurisdiction was, on
the 8th day of August, 2013 presented to the said Court by Indian
Oil Corporation Limited of G-9, Ali yavar jung Marg, Bandra (East)
Mumbai- 400 051, India, and that the said Petition is directed to be
heard before the Court on the 28th of November, 2013, and any
creditor or contributory of the said company desirous to support
or oppose the making of an order on the said Petition may appear
at the time of hearing in person or by his Attorney-at-law for that
purpose, and a copy of the petition will be furnished to any creditor
or contributory of the said company requiring the same by the
undersigned on payment of the prescribed charge for the same.
Signed.-
FJ and G De Saram,
No. 216, De Saram Place, Colombo 10.
AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  NATIONAL
ENVIRONMENTAL  FORUM  (NEF)
I, Achala Jagodage Member of Parliament do hereby give notice
under standing order No. 48 (1) of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Respublic of Sri Lanka that I propose to introduce in
Parliament a Bill entitled "An act to incorporate the National
Environmental Forum (NEF).
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said National
Enviromental Forum (NEF) which has the following general objects:-
1. to review periodically the progress made in the field of
enviroment and to suggest and support necessary actions.
2. to popularize and promote domestic food security
programme domestic waste management syestem and use of
alternative energy  resources
3. to conserve natural biological and non-bilogical resources,
promote indigenous knowledge and technology and cultural
heritage of Sri Lanka.
Member of Parliament.
09-1126
Case No. : High
Court (Civil)
36/2013/CO
Nature : Winding
up
Note.- any person who intends to apper on the hearing of the
said petition must serve on or send by post to the above - named FJ
and G De Saram Notice is writing of his intention so to do. The
notice must state the name and address of the person, or, if a firm,
the name and address of the firm and must be singed by the person
or firm, or his or their Attorney -at -Law (if any) and must be
served, or if posted, must be sent by post in sufficient time to reach
the above named no later than 6.00 O' clock in the afternoon of the
27th day of November, 2013.
Attorneys-At-Law for the Petitioner.
09-969
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.