

<!-- page 1 -->

IV ^w&  fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'12'11
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2017
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) – PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial Councils Notifications
NORTH WESTERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
North Western Provincial  No. 04 of 2017 of the Rural Development Statute
THE above mentioned Statute passed by the Provincial Council of the North Western Province on 20th June 2017 and
assented by the Governor of North Western Province on 27th November 2017 is hereby published for the information of
the public.
R. M. R. M. RATNAYAKE,
Council Secretary,
Provincial Council,
North Western Province.
Council Office,
North Western Province Provincial Council.
Kurunegala,
29th  November, 2017.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
wxl 2049$10 – 2017 foieïn¾ ui 11 jeks i÷od – 2017'12'11
No. 2049/10 – MONDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2017
1A – PG3812 – 17(2018/02)

<!-- page 2 -->

2A IV ^w&  fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'12'11
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2017
NORTH WESTERN PROVINCIAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT
 STATUTE NO. 04 OF 2017 OF THE NORTH
 WESTERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
MINISTRY OF ROAD, TRANSPORT, CO-OPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT AND TRADE
 HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION, INDUSTRIAL AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT - N.W.P.


<!-- page 3 -->

IV ^w&  fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'12'11
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2017
3A
Rural Development Statute No. 04  Of 2017 of the North Western Provincial Council
A statute for making provisions to create a  self-strengthened  rural community in the North Western
Province, to transform the village into a flourishing livelihood center, and for  the establishment of a
Department of Rural Development in the North Western Province and establishment,  registration and
maintenance of Rural Development Societies, Rural Development Women Societies, Divisional Boards
of Authority, District Boards of Authority and Provincial Board of Authority and for the provision of
incidental matters thereto.
Be it hereby enacted by the North Western Provincial Council in terms of the provisions of
Section 10 of 1st index of 9th Schedule by virtue of powers vested in the Provincial Council under
Section 154 g (1) of 13th amendment of Constitution of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
(1) This Statute  is cited as Rural Development Statute No. 04 of 2017 of the North Western Provincial
Council and shall come into operation from the date of approval by the Hon. Governor of the
North Western Province.
(2) The objectives of this statute are as follows.
(1) Establishment of Department of Rural Development in the North Western Province
for economic, social, cultural and spiritual development of the people of the North
Western Province through making provisions for planning, implementation, steering
and supervision  of programs in order to transform the village into a prosperous
livelihood center.
(2) Making provisions for the establishment, registration, supervision of functioning,
auditing, disjoining, and liquidation of Rural Development Societies, Rural
Development Women Societies, Rural Development Divisional Boards of Authority,
Rural Development District Boards of Authority, Rural Development Provincial
Boards of Authority.
Part 1
Establishment of Provincial Department of Rural Development and structure, powers and
duties of the Department
(3) A Department cited as the Department of Rural Development for the North Western Province
(hereinafter known as the Department) shall be established in order to accomplish the objectives
of this statute.
(4) This Department shall be an incorporated institute with a continual existence    possessing a
common seal and it has powers to perform all the activities relating to the subject of rural
development, to file and caused to be filed law suits by the name of Department of Rural
Development and to give explanations in respect of other legal matters.
(5) (1) This Department shall consist of a Provincial Director, Assistant Provincial Director,
Two District Officers, Rural Development Officers, Development officers and an assistant
staff.
(2) All the officers and employees those who held posts at the Department of Rural
Development on the date of implementation of this statute shall be deemed as the
officers appointed under this statute.
Long Title
short Title and
date of operation
Objectives of the
Statute
Establishment
of the Provincial
Department of
Rural
development
The Department is
a lawful institute
Appointment
of Officers

<!-- page 4 -->

4A IV ^w&  fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'12'11
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2017
(6) A class one officer of Sri Lanka Administrative Service shall be appointed as the Director of
Rural Development in the North Western Province for executing powers and duties entrusted to
the Department by the Hon. Governor of North Western Province by inquiring the Minister in
charge of the subject.
(7) (1) The powers of executing orders and provisions enacted in this statute or incidental
matters thereto shall be entrusted on the Provincial Director of Rural Development
subject to the supervision of the Secretary to the Ministry of Rural Development.
(2) The Director may delegate his powers to other officers in the Department as the
case may be.
(8) All the officers appointed for the purpose of this statute shall be deemed as public employees
in terms of the definition made under Penal Code.
(9) The functions of the Department of Rural Development in the North Western Province shall
be as follows.
(1) Organizing people in order to uplift by self-strength.
(2) Planning, implementation, following up and supervision of program for rural
development in the province.
(3) Improving knowledge, skills and attitudes of the people for Rural Development
affairs and planning and implementation of projects and training programs.
         (4)     Establishment, registration, supervision of functioning, auditing, joining, disjoining and
liquidation of Rural Development Societies, Rural Development Women Societies, Rural
Development Divisional Boards of Authority, Rural Development District Boards of
Authority, Rural Development Provincial Boards of Authority.
(10) Powers of the Department of Rural Development
(1) Supervision of functioning, checking accounts and carrying out investigation of
Rural Development Societies, Rural Development Women Societies, Rural
Development Divisional Boards of Authority, Rural Development District Boards
of Authority, Rural Development Provincial Boards of Authority.
(2) Checking required documents and obtaining information for that purpose may be executed
by Director of Rural Development or an officer authorized by the Director of Rural
Development.
Part II
Establishment, registration, supervision, functioning, auditing, joining, dissolution and liquidation
of Rural    Development Societies, Women Rural Development Societies, Rural
Development Divisional Boards of Authority, Rural Development District Boards of
Authority, Rural Development Provincial Boards of Authority.
(11) (1) In order to improve economic, social and cultural development of the community in the
North Western Province, in every village or Grama Niladhari Division a Rural
Development Society or  Women Rural Development Society or Both societies may
be established and in a Women Rural Development Society, only women shall hold
membership. Every such society shall be registered under the Department.
Appointment of
the Director.
Powers of
Provincial
Director.
Public Officers
Functions of the
Department.
Powers of the
Department.
Establishment of
Rural Development
Societies and Rural
Development
Women Societies.

<!-- page 5 -->

IV ^w&  fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'12'11
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2017
5A
(2) The minimum age limit shall be 18 years of age and the maximum age limit shall be 70
years of age in order to get the membership of so established society and a minimum of
21 members are required to establish a society.
         (3)       The official tenure of the societies established under the above Sub Section (1) of section
11 shall be a period of one year from the date of establishment of the society. An annual
election shall be held within a period of one month from the date of termination of
official term.
(12) Every Women Rural Development Society established under aforesaid Section 11 and Rural
Development Societies and Rural Development Women Societies already initiated when
this statute came in to operation shall be registered at the department of Rural Development
in the manner stipulated in the orders enacted by the Minister in charge of the subject in the
North Western Province.
(13) (1) Rural Development Societies, Rural Development Women Societies those not meet the
standards stipulated in the orders enacted under Section 12 of this statute shall not be
qualified for registration.  ( 2) Such disqualification for registration should be informed to
the applicant concerned by the Director during 45 days from the date of receipt of duly
perfected application.
(14) The area of authority of a society shall not be larger than a Grama Niladhari Division and not
smaller than a village. Provided that, several societies may be established in one village in
respect of a Gam Godella, tract or an estate unit which has a distinctive geographical identity in
the same village.
(15) Only one category of society may be established in each area of authority of society.
(16) The functions of Rural Development Societies of Rural Development Women Societies are as
follows.
(1) Regular implementation of development programs required to create a better society
by improving economic and social status of the community living in the area of
authority of North Western Provincial Council through Rural Development Women
Societies.
(2) Implementation of religious programs, enhancing literature affairs, improving sports
activities and conducting Shramadana Campaigns for creating morality and collaboration
of the members and community living in the area of authority.
(3) Implementation of awareness programs and training programs in order to enhance the
knowledge, attitudes and skills of village community by prioritizing human resource
development.
(4) Contribute to develop rural infra- structure facilities.
(5) Practicing the management of family income and expenditure with the purpose of building
a conducive environment for enhancing the living standard of the society members.
(6) Building funds in order to achieve goals and objectives of the society.
(7) Maintaining books and documents required for keeping appropriate and regular accounts
Registration of
Societies
Disqualification
for registration
Area of authority of
the society
Limitation of the
area of authority
for only one
society
Functions of a
Rural
Development
Society
and Rural
Development
Women society

<!-- page 6 -->

6A IV ^w&  fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'12'11
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2017
for income and expenditure of society funds.
(8) Functioning to maintain welfare activities of the society members.
(17) Registration of Rural Development Societies and Rural Development Women Societies those
executed contrary to the provisions of this statute and not comply with the terms and standards
of the orders and remain defunct shall be cancelled.
(18) All the properties of society where the registration is so cancelled shall be entrusted to the
Ministry of Rural Development. The Secretary to the Ministry shall make necessary
provisions to authorize an officer to take over and protect such property on behalf of the
Ministry.
(19) Appeals made in respect of cancellation or rejection of registration in terms of the standards
set out in Section 12 and Section 13 of this statute shall be submitted to the Secretary to the
Ministry of Rural Development within 90 days from the date of information of rejection of
cancellation of registration. The decision of the Minister in charge of the subject in regard
to appeals shall be final and conclusive .
(20) In case where there are several societies of the same category in one area of authority such
societies may be joined according to the decision of the Director. Funds of the societies
shall be credited to one general account.
(21) A Rural development Society, a Rural Development Women Society could be disjointed on
a decision made by the Director. The properties of such societies shall be divided as the
manner decided by the Director by inquiring the General Council.
(22) Rural Development Societies, and Rural Development Women Societies registered under
Section 12 of this statute shall be executed under a general constitution as stipulated in the
orders made by the Minister in Charge of the subject under this section.
(23) (1) A fund shall be established for each Rural Development Society, a Rural Development
Women Society registered under Section 12.
(2) Provisions for management of funds shall be made by the Minister in charge of the
subject by means of the orders enacted under Section 22.
(24) In case defunct Rural Development Societies and Rural Development Women Societies are
incapable to be reorganized such societies shall be dissolved.  The funds of the societies shall be
credited to a liquidation account under the purview of the Director.
Part III
Registration and maintenance of Rural Development Divisional Boards of Authority,
District Boards of Authority, Provincial Boards of Authority
25. A Rural Development Divisional Board of Authority shall be established in every Divisional
Secretariat Division and such board of Authority shall consist of Chairmen, Secretaries and
Treasurers of Rural Development Societies, Rural Development Women Societies established
within the Divisional Secretariat Division.
Cancelation of
registration
of Rural
Development
Boards of Authority
Property
of cancelled
societies
Powers of appeals
Joining societies
Disjoining of
Societies
Society
constitution
Society Funds
Dissolution of
societies
Establishment of
Divisional Boards
of Authority

<!-- page 7 -->

IV ^w&  fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'12'11
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2017
7A
26. The Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer of the Rural Development Divisional Board of Authority
shall be appointed from among the chairmen, secretaries, and treasurers of Rural Development
Societies and Women Rural Development Societies and the Rural Development Officer of the
Division shall be ex - officio appointed as the Instructor of the Divisional Board of Authority.
The Divisional Secretary of Division shall be ex-officio appointed as the advisor of the Divisional
Board of Authority.
27. Functions of the Divisional Boards of Authority
(1) Guiding to achieve objectives of Rural Development Societies through preparing
programs for the enhancing Rural Development Societies and Women Rural
Development Women Societies.
(2) Coordinating Rural Development District Boards of Authority and Provincial Boards
of Authority.
(3) Assisting the Rural Development Officer to prepare a joint Rural Development Plan
for the Divisional Secretariat Division in accordance with the instructions given by the
Director.
(4) Building better connection among Rural Development Societies and Rural
Development Women Societies and preparing programs for increasing society funds.
(5) Performing a preceding mission of empowering the community of the area of authority
towards development process.
28. District Boards of Authority are established through the representation of Chairmen, Secretaries
and Treasurers of Rural Development Divisional Boards of Authority.
29. Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer of the District Board of Authority shall be appointed from
among the members of the Divisional Boards of Authority and District Rural Development
Officer shall be the ex officio appointed as the Instructor. The Provincial Director of Rural
Development shall be ex officio appointed as the Advisor.
30. Functions of the District Board of Authority
(1) Assisting, advising and guiding for the improvement of Rural Development Societies
in the District.
(2) Assisting the District Rural Development Officer in formulating the District Rural
Development Plan with the association of the rural development plans of Divisional
Rural Development Boards of Authority.
(3) Providing necessary assistance to implement the rural development plan in collaboration
with the other organizations of the district.
(4) Representing Provincial Boards of Authority.
31. Provincial Boards of Authority is established with the amalgamation of two District Rural
Development Boards of Authority.
Structure of the
Rural
Development
Divisional
Board of
Authority
Functions of Rural
Development
Divisional Boards
of Authority
Establishment of
District Boards of
Authority
Structure of the
Rural
Development
District  Board
of Authority
Functions of
Rural
Development
District  Board
of Authority
Establishment of
Provincial Rural
Development
Board of
Authority

<!-- page 8 -->

8A IV ^w&  fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'12'11
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2017
32. The chairman, secretary and treasurer of the Provincial Board of Authority shall be elected from
among the members of District Boards of Authority and the Director of Rural Development shall
be ex-officio appointed as the Instructor and the Secretary to the Ministry of Rural Development
shall be the Advisor.
33 Functions of Provincial Boards of Authority
(1) Providing the necessary assistance for the implementation of Provincial Rural
Development Plan.
(2) Identifying special projects required in rural development, assisting for planning
and implementation.
(3) Providing assistance for rural development training activities and research activities
of the province.
34. (1) Every Board of Authority established under Section 25,28, and 31 shall be registered
by the Provincial Director of Rural Development.
(2) Rural Development Boards of Authorities those are not conformity  with the criteria
stipulated by the orders enacted under this statute are disqualified for registration,
and the applicants shall be informed by the Director of Rural Development on that
matter.
(3) Registration of Rural Development boards of Authority those are not functioning
contrary to the provisions made under this statute and not compliance with the orders
and standards stipulated under this statute and those become inactive may be
cancelled.
35. Appeals relating to registration rejection and cancellation of Boards of authority shall be
submitted to the Secretary to the Ministry of Rural Development within 90 days and the
decision of the Minister of Rural Development shall be final and conclusive.
36. Boards of Authority registered under Section 34 of this Statute shall be registered under a
general constitution as set out in the orders.
37. (1) Every Board of Authority registered shall be able to establish a fund in order to
achieve their objectives.
(2) This fund shall be administered by the orders enacted by the Minster in charge of the
subject.
38. Funds established under the aforesaid sub section 37(1) shall be audited by an internal auditing
unit  of the Ministry in charge of the subject of Rural Development.
Part IV
Offences and Penalties
39. Any person,
(1) Who makes a false or incorrect statement deliberately  in respect of any report or a
document upon a term, or order made or provided  for the purpose of this statute or under
this statute,
Structure of
Rural
Development
Provincial
Board of
Authority
Functions of the
Provincial Rural
Development
Board of
Authority
Registration,
rejection of
registration and
cancellation of
registration of
Boards of
Authority
Appealing  with
regard to the
registration,
rejection and
cancellation of
Boards of
Authority
Constitution of
Boards of
Authority
Funds of Boards of
Authority
Auditing funds
Offences

<!-- page 9 -->

IV ^w&  fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'12'11
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2017
9A
(2) Who default or reject certain information or any report stipulated by this statute,
(3) Who default the orders, notifications of the Director of rural Development ,  without
reasonable grounds,
(4) Who interrupt or impede a person authorized in  executing or performing  any duty
or action delegated    under this statute or under an order made under this statute,
and
(5) Who violates, defaults or interrupts execution of any order and provision deliberately of
this statute or orders made under this statue shall be a guilty of an offence under this
statute
40 In case an offense is committed the Director of Rural Development or an officer authorized by the
Director of Rural Development shall have the power to sue under this statute.
41 Every person who commits  offense shall convicted at summery inquiry before a Magistrate shall
be liable to a fine of a minimum of Ten Thousand Rupees (Rs. 10,000/-) and not exceeding One
Lakhs (Rs. 100,000/-) or imprisonment of either description for a period of not exceeding six
months (06)  or to such fine and imprisonment or the both sentence.
Part V
General provisions
42 (1) The Minister has power to enact orders in respect of matters of this statute
(2) Every order enacted by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette and on completion
of 30 days of such publication  that shall be immediately submitted to the Provincial
Council  for approval
(3) Any order not approved by the Provincial Council shall be considered as rescinded
without prejudice to any act previously done under that order.
(4) The date deemed as the date of rescinding of any order shall be published in the Gazette.
43 In the event of any inconsistency among Sinhalese and Tamil text of the statute the Sinhalese
text shall prevail.
44 In this statute, unless the context otherwise requires-
“Provincial Council” means the North Western Provincial Council,
”Governor” means the governor of the North Provincial Council,
‘‘Minister in Charge of the Subject” means the Minister in charge of the subject of Rural
Development,
‘‘Secretary” means the Secretary to the Minister in charge of the subject of Rural Development of
the North Western Provincial Council,
‘‘Provincial Department of Rural Development” is the Department established for the subject of
Rural Development,
‘‘Director” means the Provincial Director of the Department of Rural Development of the North
Western Provincial Council,
Power of sue
Penalties
Enacting orders
in case of
inconsistency
Sinhala text shall
prevail Definition

<!-- page 10 -->

10A IV ^w&  fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'12'11
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2017
‘‘Officer” means the Rural Development Officers, Development Officers (Rural Development),
Sewing Instructors, and other officers,
‘‘Rural Development Societies” means Rural Development Societies and Rural Development
Women Societies,
‘‘Area of Authority of a Society” shall not be larger than a Grama Niladhari Division,
“Divisional Boards of Authority” means Rural Development Divisional Boards of Authority
registered only  one for each Divisional Secretariat Division in the North Western Province,
‘‘District Boards of Authority” means District Rural Boards of Authority registered each
for the two district of Kurunegala and Puttlam in the North Western Province,
‘‘Provincial Boards of Authority” means North Western Provincial Rural Development Board
of Authority registered for the North Western Province,
‘‘Rural Development Boards of Authority” means  Rural Development Divisional Boards of
Authority, Rural Development District Boards of Authority,Rural Development Provincial
Boards of Authority,
“Member” means the in case Rural Development Society members of the area of authority
of the society and in case Divisional Boards of Rural Development members representing
Rural Development Societies, in case District Boards of Rural Development members
representing  Divisional Boards of Rural Development and in case Provincial Boards of
Rural Development members representing District Boards of Rural Development,
‘‘Constitution” means constitutions approved at Rural Development Societies, Rural
Development Women Societies, and at Rural Development Boards of authority established
under this statute,
‘‘Orders” means orders made under the provisions of this statute.
12-853
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA