

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'05'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.05.2009
705
705
wxl 1"602 - 2009 uehs 22 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'05'22
No. 1,602 – FRIDAY , MAY 22, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 708
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 711
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29th May, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th May,
2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'05'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.05.2009
706
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'05'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.05.2009
707
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) St andard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of
Examinations.Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'05'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.05.2009
708
Posts – Vacant
SRI  LANKA  EXCISE  DEPARTMENT
Post of Circuit Bungalow Keeper
APPLICATIONS are called from the citizens of Sri Lanka to select a Bungalow Keeper for the Circuit Bungalow of this Department. This
vacancy is available at Tissamaharamaya Circuit Bungalow.
2. The application form prepared according to the specimen given below should be sent by registered post to the Commissioner
General of Excise, Department of Excise, No. 28, Staples Street, Colombo 02, before 15.06.2009 and the envelope containing the
application should bear the word "Post of Bungalow Keeper", on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. Incomplete application s as
well as the applications received after the closing date will be rejected. The applications received will not be acknowledged.
3. Salary Scale.– Monthly consolidated salary Rs. 11,730 - 100 x 10 - 120 x 10 - 130 x 12 - Rs. 16,590. An Efficiency Bar before
reaching the salary step Rs. 12,000.
4. Age limit.– Age should be not less than 18 years and not more than 45 years as at the last date receiving the applications
according to the Gazette Notification. The maximum age limit will not apply to those already in Public/Local Government Service.
5. Educational and other Qualifications :
(a) Applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Should have passed grade 08/year 09 or a higher examination ;
(c) Should possess an excellent knowledge and experience in preparation of Eastern and Western food. Preference will
be given to those who have experience in providing food in Rest House or similar Institution and have a good
knowledge of managing a Kitchen, Guest Houses and Reception. Applicants should have experience of 03 (Three)
years or more in the relevant field.
(d) Proficiency in English/Tamil Language will be additional qualification.
6. Recruitment Procedure.– The applicants who have the qualifications in para 4 and 5 above will be required to appear for an
interview in order to test their vocational aptitudes. Marks will be awarded at the structural interview as follows :–
Marks for additional educational qualifications - 40
Marks for ability to speak in English Language - 15
Marks for ability to speak in Tamil Language - 15
Training and Experience - 30
––––
100
===
Those who are engaged in the permanent service of this Department and have the above qualifications may also apply for this
post. Such applicants should forward their applications through their superiors.
7. Terms of Engagement.– This post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions should be made to the widow's and Orphans
Fund.
8. Conditions of Service .– The attention of all the applicants shall be drawn to the General Conditions applicable to the posts
in the Public Service as published in Part I of this Gazette.
9. Applicants should annex copies (not the original copy) of the following documents to their application :
(i) Birth Certificate ;
(ii) Two (02) Character Certificates recently obtained. One should be obtained from the Grama Sevaka of the area ;
(iii) Certificate in support of Educational Qualifications ;
(iv) Certifications in support of Special Qualifications and Experience. (Applicants will be called for the interview in
writing. Travelling expenses will not be paid for this purpose).
D. G. M. V. H
APUARACHCHI ,
Commissioner General of Excise.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'05'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.05.2009
709
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
POST OF BUNGALOW KEEPER
01. Full Name :–––––––––––.
02. Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
03. Present Address :–––––––––––.     Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
04. Nationality :–––––––––––.
05. Whether a Citizen of Sri Lanka by Decent or by Registration, if Registration, a copy of the Certificate :–––––––––––.
06. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
07. Age as at the closing date of receiving application according to the Gazette Notification :–––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications (Annex copies of certificates of examinations passed) :–––––––––––.
09. Qualifications obtained under (C-D) of the Gazette Notification :–––––––––––.
10. Names and Addresses of two referees :
(i) ––––––––––––
(ii) ––––––––––––
11. If you have held any post in States/Local Government Service before, give particulars :–––––––––––.
I hereby certify that the above particulars given by me are true and correct to my knowledge and belief and if such particulars  are
found to be incorrect or untrue even after I am appointed for the service, I am aware that my service is subject to terminate w ithout
any compensation.
––––––––––––,
Applicant Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
05–435
MINISTRY  OF  LOCAL  GOVERNMENT  AND  PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Information Officer
APPLICATIONS are invited from suitably qualified citizens of Sri Lanka to fill the above vacancy in this Ministry.
(i) Salary group and salary scale .– Initial step of MN - 4 - 2006-A as per P. A. C. No. 06/2006(iv).
Monthly consolidated salary .– Rs. 15,215 - 10 x 215 - 2 x 240 - 7 x 320 - 15 x 360-Rs. 25,965.
Should pass the efficiency Bar Examination within three (03) years from the date of appointment.
(ii) Age Limit.– Should be not less than 18 years of age and not more than 45 years of age as at the closing date of applications. This
age limit does not apply to those already in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service.
(iii) Educational Qualifications :
(a) 1. Should possess a degree from a recognized university ; or
2. Should possess a Postgraduate Diploma from a media Institute recognized by the Government ; with
(b) Not less than three (03) years work experience in a newspaper company or a member of the News and Information staff
of a Government Institution or company or recognized institution (should be proved with certificates).
(iv) Conditions of Recruitment.– This is a permanent and pensionable post. You should make contributions to widows' and orphans
pensions fund.
(v) Procedure of Recruitment .– Candidates will have to face a structural interview and will be selected according to the marks
obtained at the interview. Marking scheme of the structured interview is as follows :–

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'05'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.05.2009
710
01. Maximum marks for this part - 20 marks
(i) Possess a Special Degree in Mass Communication
(a) with a first class pass - 20 marks
(b) with a second class upper pass - 15 marks
(c) with a second class lower pass - 12 marks
(d) with a general pass - 10 marks
(if it is a Degree other than the Degree prescribed for basic qualification)
(ii) Possess a Degree in Mass Communication as a major subject
(a) with a first class pass - 15 marks
(b) with a second class upper pass - 12 marks
(c) with a second class lower pass - 10 marks
(d) with a general pass - 08 marks
(if it is a Degree other than the Degree prescribed for basic qualification)
(iii) For other Degrees except the degrees in I and II above.
(a) Possess the Degree prescribed for basic qualification with a first class pass - 05 marks
(b) Possess the Degree prescribed for basic qualification with a second class upper pass - 03 marks
(c) Possess the Degree prescribed for basic qualification with a second class lower pass - 01 mark
02. Maximum marks for this part - 20 marks
(i) Possess a Post Degree in Mass Communication in addition to the Basic educational qualification - 20 marks
(ii) Possess an other Post Degree in addition to the basic educational qualifications - 10 marks
(iii) Possess a Postgraduate Diploma in Mass Communication in addition to the basic
educational qualification - 10 marks
(iv) Possess an other Postgraduate Diploma in addition to the basic educational qualification - 05 marks
(The study period of the above post Degree/Postgraduate Diplomas should be one year or more)
03. If he/she is serving in a Newspaper company or as a member of the News and Information Staff of a Government Institution
or Company or recognized institution, five (05) remarks per years for the period of service exceeding three (03) years subjecte d to a
maximum of 30 marks.
For self creations broadcast through electronic media or published in printed media, one (01) mark
per creation subjected to a maximum of - 20 marks
(should be proved with acceptable documents)
04. Maximum marks given by the board of interviewers at the interview (It is structured as follows) - 10 marks
(i) Ability to conduct a media interview - 05 marks
(ii) Ability to issue notices to media - 05 marks
N. B.– Those who already in the Public service should forward their applications through respective Head of Department. The
applications with full name, address, age, educational and professional qualifications prepared by the applicants should be for warded
under registered cover to reach before 19th June, 2009. The Secretary, Ministry of Local Government and Provincial Councils, No . 330,
Union Place, Colombo 02.
H. P. C
ASHIAN HERA TH,
Secretary,
Ministry of Local Government and Provincial Councils.
Ministry of Local Government and Provincial Councils,
No. 330, Union Place,
Colombo 02.
05–508

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'05'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.05.2009
711
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTHCARE  AND  NUTRITION – 2009
Recruitment of Students for Training in the Professions Supplementary to Medicine
APPLICATIONS are invited from the eligible citizens of Sri Lanka for recruitment to the Occupational Therapist Training Course in the
Professions Supplementary to Medicine in the Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
01. The eligible persons will be selected based on a priority list prepared on the Z score marks of the General Certificate of
Education (Advanced Level) Examination from 2001 to 2006.
02. Selection will be made based on district population ratio depending on the number of students to be recruited for training.
03. Since this is a full-time course, the students who attend to other courses on 05 working days of the week and forenoon on
Saturday should not apply for this course.
04. The relevant courses and the period of training are given below :
Code No. Course Period of Training
01 Occupational Therapist 02 years
05. Educational Qualifications. – It is compulsory that the candidates should have passed 03 subjects at least in the Science
stream in one sitting at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination from 2001 to 2006 with a credit pass for the specified science subject for this
training course. Qualifications required for this training course are as follows :
Code No. Training Course G. C. E. (A/L) Qualifications G . C. E. (O/L) Qualifications
01 Occupational Therapist G. C. E. (A/L) Examination with a credit G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects
pass for Physics and two of the including English Language at not more
following subjects in one sitting than two sittings with credit passes for
Combined Maths, Chemistry, Biology Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics,
and Agricultural Science Science and one more subject
06. Other Qualifications :
(a) Should be not less than 18 and not more than 30 years of age as at 30.06.2009.
(b) Should agree to serve in any part of the island.
(c) Should be physically fit and healthy.
(d) Should be a resident for a period of 03 years continuously within the district from which the applicant submit his/her
application.
07. Method of Application :
(a) Applications should be prepared as per form of application attached to this letter. Applicant should affix stamps to the
value of Rs. 500 on the "Stamps Cage" in the application and cancel them by placing his/her signature.
(b) The signature of the applicant should be attested by an officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Education Service/
Government Accountants Service/Principal of a Government School/Justice of the Peace/Attorney-at-Law or by a
Government Officer drawing a salary not less than Rs. 240,360 per annum.
(c) The applications perfected should be sent under registered cover to reach the Director (Administration) 02, Ministry of
Healthcare and Nutrition, "Suwasiripaya", No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10 on or
before 30.06.2009. The post applied for should be written on the left hand corner of the envelope enclosing applications.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'05'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.05.2009
712
08. Applications of those who are serving in government or semi-government institutions should be sent through their Heads
of Departments.
09. Applications will not be acknowledged.
10. Applications received after the due date will be rejected.
11. Applications which do not conform to the requirements of the ntoice will be rejected.
12. Applicants, who have fulfilled educational and other qualifications above, will be called for interviews. The applicants
should submit originals of the following documents at the interview. The candidature of those candidates who fail to submit ori ginals of
the relevant documents at the interview will be cancelled.
(a) Certificate of Birth.
(b) Originals of the educational certificates and in the absence of originals, the results sheets issued to external candidates or
the original of the letter issued to the applicant by the Principal of the school from which the applicant sit for the
examination.
(c) Certificate issued by the Department of Examinations indicating the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination Z-Score marks level.
(d) National Identity Card/Passport/Driving Licence.
(e) Grama Niladari Certificate countersigned by the Divisional Secretary to confirm the residency of applicant within the
district for period of 03 years.
13. Scheme of Training :
(i) Selected candidates will be admitted to the respective training schools of the training course in para 04 above. Candidates
should follow the course in English Medium.
(ii) The trainees will be subject to the rules and regulations in force within the Training Schools and other regulations
enforced from time to time by the Department.
(iii) The training of those who fail in the examinations or whose work and conduct proved to be is unsatisfactory or who fail
to comply with the conditions of examination and leave in their schools of training during the period of training is liable
to be stopped at any time without payment of any compensation.
(iv) Trainees will be paid in Rs. 6,000 per month during the period of training.
(v) The trainees when entering into the Schools of Training should enter into an agreement with the Director General of
Health Services to the effect that the trainee shall complete the training successfully without leaving the same and if
given an appointment after completion of training shall serve the Department of Health Services for a minimum of 10
years period. In the event he/she withdraws from the training or leaves the training or had to be discontinued from the
training as per Para (iii) above during the period of training, he/she shall refund to the Department the expenditure
incurred for the payment of allowances and other expenses borne by the Government during the period of his/her
training. Otherwise action will be taken to recover such expenses incurred by the Department as stipulated in the
agreement.
14. Terms of Engagement.– The Department is not bound to grant permanent appointments at the end of the training. However,
the trainees who succeed in the final examination will be considered for appointments to the Class III of the relevant post, de pending on
the vacancies available in any part of the island based on their merits.
15. When filling in applications the educational and other qualifications should be entered with due care. Provided that
certificates so furnished were proved to be false or incorrect after recruitment for training or after giving appointments, act ion will be
taken to discontinue from the training or to dismiss from the service and also to backlist their names and there by preventing them from
re-entering to the Government Service.
16. The selected candidates should undergo a medical examination, to assure their physical and mental fitness to serve in any
part of Sri Lanka and those who are proved unfit in the said medical examination will become disqualify to continue with their training.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'05'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.05.2009
713
17. All the officers so recruited will be subject to the provisions of the Establishments Code of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka, policies enforced by the Department of Health Services, Financial and other regulations and rules and regulations
and orders enacted from time to time by the Government.
18. The decision of the Secretary, Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition will be the final in respect of any issue arising out of the
recruitment to the training which are not covered by this Gazette Notification.
H. A. P. KAHANDALIYANAGE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition,
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
04th May, 2009.
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTHCARE  AND  NUTRITION – 2009
R
ECRUITMENT OF STUDENTS FOR TRAINING IN THE PROFESSIONS SUPPLEMENTARY TO MEDICINE
POST APPLIED FOR .........................................
01. ( a) Name with initials (in block capitals) :––––––––.
(b) Name in full (in block capitals) :––––––––.
(c) Name in full (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––.
02. National Identity Card Number :
03. Postal Address : Sinhala/Tamil English
............................................. .............................................
............................................. .............................................
............................................. .............................................
............................................. .............................................
04. (i) Permanent Address : Sinhala/Tamil English
............................................. .............................................
............................................. .............................................
............................................. .............................................
............................................. .............................................
(ii) District :–––––––––.
(iii) Are you a permanent resident in the District ? Yes/No. :–––––––––.
(iv) If yes, how long ? :–––––––––.
05. Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Day :–––––––––.
Age as at 30.06.2009 :
Years :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
06. Whether Male or Female : Male
(Mark "3" in the relevant cage) Female
07. Are you a Citizen of Sri Lankan : Yes
(Mark "3" in the relevant cage) No

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'05'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.05.2009
714
08. Marital Status :–––––––––.
09. Educational Qualifications :
(a) G. C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination (Science subject only) (please attache copy of mark list) :
District from which you registered for Examination :–––––––––.
Year :–––––––––.
Index No. :–––––––––.
Z Score :–––––––––.
Subject Grade
01.
02.
03.
04.
(b) G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination - First Sitting :
Year :–––––––––.
Index No. :–––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01. 06.
02. 07.
03. 08.
04. 09.
05. 10.
G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination - Second Sitting :
Year :–––––––––.
Index No. :–––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01. 06.
02. 07.
03. 08.
04. 09.
05. 10.
10. Have you been convicted by a Court of Law for any charge ? Y es
(Mark "3" in the relevant cage) No
If "yes" please furnish details :–––––––––.
11. Certificate of Applicant :
(a) I do hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge and I am not
undergoing any fulltime course at present.
(b) I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified be fore
selection and to dismissal without compensation if the inaccuracy is discovered after the selection.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'05'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.05.2009
715
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Stamp Cage
––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
13. Attestation :
I do hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss. ................................ is personally known to me and he/she pla ced his/her
signature in my presence on this day of ........................ 2009.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––.
Details of Attester ;
Full Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
(With official seal)
05–367