

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 290]
————————
Presented by Hon. M. T. Hasen Ali M. P.
on 07th March, 2014
(Published in the Gazette on February 03, 2014)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5. 00
2-2d
2-
ROYAL CHARITY FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Royal Charity Foundation

<!-- page 2 -->

1Royal Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
2—PL 007917—  75 (01/2014)
AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  ROYAL CHARITY FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the
“Royal Charity Foundation” has heretofore been formed
for the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting
the objects and matters  connected with the said Foundation
according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters which it was established, and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application:
BE it therefore, connected by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as The Royal Charity
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2014.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the “Royal
Charity Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of the
“Royal Charity Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued in all
Courts with full power and authority to have and use a common
seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be:—
(a) to establish and maintain orphanages and homes
for the aged and to establish social welfare centres;
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation
of the Royal
Charity
Foundation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Royal Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
(b) to provide wheel chairs, crutchers and spectacles
for the poor and destitute;
(c) to assist low income families in the construction of
new houese or completion of existing ones;
(d) to assist low income families;
(e) to distribute essential dry rations among low income
families;
(f) to hold workshops in order to promote positive
thinking and to reduce extreme situations in life;
(g) to assist and give advice to cultivators and small
scale businessmen;
(h) to provide sanitary facilities and water supply for
needy people;
(i) to provide artificial limbs for those who need them;
(j) to hold medical clinics;
(k) to arrange weddings for extremely poor persons; and
(l) to create projects for providing computer knowledge
for youth.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being  of the Corporation, be administered by a Board of
Directors constituting of Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer and
another eleven more members elected in accordance with
such rules.
(2) The first Board of  Directors of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of administration of the
Foundation holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act.
5
10
15
20
25
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Royal Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including the power to open, operate, and close
bank accounts to borrow or raise moneys with or without
security,  invest the money of  the Corporation and to engage,
employ and dismiss officers and servants required for the
carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting of the Members and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting to make rules not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act or any other written law, on all or any of the
following matters:—
(a) the admission, resignation or expulsion of members;
(b) the election of the office-bearers, the registration
from, or vacation of or removal from office of office-
bearers and their powers, conduct and duties;
(c) the election of the members of the Board of Directors
and its powers conduct and duties and the terms of
office of the members of the Board of Directors and
the filling of vacancies of the members of the Board
of Directors;
(d) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(e) the procedure to be observed for the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board of Directors,
the times, places, notices and agenda of such
meetings, the quorum therfore and the conduct of
business thereat;
General
powers of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Royal Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
(f) the administration and management of the porperty
of the Corporation; and
(g) generally, for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation hereby
constituted and all debts due to, subscriptions and
contributions payable to the Foundation on that date shall
be paid to the Corporation for the purpose of the Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of  gifts,
bequest, donations,  subscription, contributions, fees or grants
for and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited to
the credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as the
Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
9.    The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
take and hold any property, movable and immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time being of
the Corporation with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
5
10
15
20
Fund of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
25
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5Royal Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
10. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of such membership fees as may be
due from him to the Corporation.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other institute or institutes
having objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which
is or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing
any income or property among its or their members. Such
institution or institutions shall be determined by the Board
at or immediately before the dissolution of the Corporation.
12.  (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor as may be determined by the Board.
(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as Accountant issued by the Council of
such Institute.
Limitation of
liability of
members.
Accounts and
Audit.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Royal Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
13.    The seal of the  Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Chairman and Secretary who shall sign their names on the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other persons, except such as are
mentioned in this Act, and those claiming by, from or under
them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Seal of the
Corporation.
5
10

<!-- page 8 -->

7Royal Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .