

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'25
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2012
w;s úfYI
wxl 1768$20 - 2012 cQ,s ui 25 jeks nodod - 2012'07'25
No. 1768/20  -  WEDNESDAY ,   JULY  25,  2012
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
My Ref. 9/B/21/St. 02 (Chi).
UV A  PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Draft of the Proposed Primary Childhood Statute of Uva Province Provincial Council
I, herewith publish the draft of above proposed statute for public comments which will be enforced in the Uva Province
Provincial Council.
The statute will be submitted to the Uva Province Provincial Council for the approval after 10 days from the date of
publishing this gazette notification.  If any comments to be forwarded related to the contents of this statute should be
forwarded to the address given below within 10 days from the date of this notice.
SHASHAINDRA RAJAPAKSHA,
Chief Minister and Ministries of Finance, Planning, Law,
Peace, Education, Local Government, Cultural, Transport,
Land, Irrigation, Economic Development,
Rural Infrastructure Facilities and Constructions,
Uva Province Provincial Council.
Office of the Chief Minister,
Uva Province Provincial Council,
King’s Street,
Badulla,
20th July, 2012.
CHARTER  No. .............. OF  YEAR  2012  FOR  BASIC  CHILDHOOD  DEVELOPMENT  OF
UV A  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Be this charter enacted to establish the registration, supervision maintenance, administration and
to make provision of matters connected and consequential thereto in respect of day care centres, pre-
schools, pre-childhood development centres or/and physical and mental development and protection of
children below five years which are being conducted now or inaugurated in the future subject to the
limitation of powers vested to provincial councils under the Thirteenth (13th) Amendment of the constitution
of Democratic, Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka enacted thus by the Provincial Council of Uva of Democratic,
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Title in brief and
date of
operation.
4 — PG 001377

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'25
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2012
2A
Establishment of
An authority.
Objectives.
1. This charter may be cited as charter No. ............... of the year 2012 named as Basic childhood
development Charter whilst it shall come into operation with effect from the date of approval by Governor
of Uva Province herein after called as “Governor”.
S
ECTION 1
2. The objective of this charter is to build up a suitable and an appropriate legal, institution and an
administrative structure, to develop the childhood during the period up to the completion of five years
which is considered as the childhood of a child and to show the correct path towards achieving and
fulfilling the under mentioned objectives to enable to obtain experience in association with the faculties
and establish an appropriate fruitful and a secured environment.
1. To get organized with a good courteous and a polite style of conduct and a complaisant
speech through the day to day activities.
2. To train good health habits and to give appropriate nourishment to children.
3. To supply an environment to build up and inculcate good qualities.
4. To give appropriate education and appropriate protection to the children below the age of
five years.
5. To safeguard rights of children and child protection and execute the laws pertaining to them.
6. To develop the mentality and personality of children.
7. To render an opportunity for physical and cycomotor skill development of children.
8. To develop wise creative skills.
9. To guide in conserving the environment and through it to appreciate and love the Environment
enjoying it.
10. To render the ability to challenging occasions.
11. To build a friendly environment in getting trained to work in mutual life.
12. To allow the child to live with pleasure and enjoyment during the childhood age.
13. To enthus and to wake up the talents of children of this age effecting an environment to
nourish them.
14. To render a strong foundation for their future education.
S
ECTION II
ADMINISTRATION AND SUPERVISION
3. (1) An Authority shall be established for Uva Province childhood development herein after
called “Authority” to fulfill the objectives of this Charter.
(2) The Governor should appoint a person by name or ex-officio for the authority herein after
called as “Competent Authority”.
(3) The responsibility of the competent authority shall be executing the Provision of the Charter
and performing the duties and task to achieve the objectives of the Charter.
Appointment of
Competent
Authority.
Responsibilities
of the compe-
tent authority.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'25
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2012
Supervision and
administration.
Vesting of
powers.
4. (1) The competent authority shall be herein after called as “Director” who should execute his
duties and tasks under the supervision and administration of Uva Provincial Director of Education while he
also should work under the ordinary and special provision of the provincial secretary in-charge of the
Educational Ministry herein after called as “Secretary” and the Provincial Minister in-charge of the subject
of education herein after called as “Minister”.
(2) The duties and tasks relevant to basic childhood development centres, the powers held by
pre-childhood development centres, pre-school day care centres, and any other competent Centres
maintained within Uva Province for physical or mental or development authority of children below five
years of age which are herein after called as “Centres” and should be effected by the competent authority
in respect of any centre while any duties or tasks expected to be executed by him in any other place in this
charter he will be emplowered to execute powers vested to him through the chart as mentioned hereunder.
A. To enter into the centres maintained within the province and examine the precincts as well as
the relevant documents and letters ;
B. To question obtain explanation orally or in writing from owners or parties such centres are
being maintained or any one who will be present there doing administrative work ;
C. To register any centre or reject such request for registration showing the Causes ;
D. To examine any documents, books, registers notes or files and take them into custody of him ;
E . To take steps to suspend interdict, or dismiss the services of those who are engaged in
teaching in any centre if they fail to prove their qualifications ;
F . To order the owner or the institution itself who maintains such centre to grant at least the
minimum facilities to the children studying in such centre ordered by the charter. ;
G .. To suspend or stop any centre maintained, after an investigation or inquiry provided that it
does not maintain the centre under the provision indicated in the charter ;
H. To grade the centre considering the service facilities and staff maintained by such centre ;
I. To hold training programmes, seminars and workshops to the teachers and working staff in
centres. And order such teachers or working staff to participate in them ;
J. To subject the centres to supervision and investigation from time to time ;
K. To introduce books, documents, registers and forms to be maintained in the centre and order
them to be used.
5. The authority should execute any powers duties and tasks vested to him under any provision
out of the provision indicated in the charter.
6. Any powers duties and tasks vested, empowered or apportioned to the authority under this
charter can be vested to any other officer in the state service in provincial council on approval of the
director.
S
ECTION III
APPOINTING OF ADVISORY COMMITTEES IN REGARD TO BASIC CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT
7. The Governor should appoint an advisory committee herein after called as “Advisory Committee”
Consisting of under mentioned members in respect of basic childhood development.
The Powers
Duties tasks held
by the
competent
Authority.
Appointing of
Advisory
Committee.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'25
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2012
4A
Chairman and
secretary.
(A) The members of the basic childhood development advisory committee appointed herein after
mentioned as ex-officio members,
1. The Secretary In-charge of the subject of Education in the Ministry of Uva Provincial Council.
2. Provincial Director of Education of Uva Province members.
3. Provincial Director of Health Services of Uva Province.
4. Commissioner of Probation and Child Care of Uva Province.
5. Commissioner of Local Government Depatment of Uva Province.
6. Provincial Director of Social Services Deparatment of Uva Province.
(B) Members herein after appointed and called as Members,
1. A delegate recommended by the Director of the National Children’s Secretariat.
2. A Pre-school Teacher recommended by the Commissioner of Local Government in Uva
province.
3. Two delegates who work relevant to the subject of basic childhood development in V oluntary
organizations with one delegate from each district recommended by the District Secretaries
of Badulla and Moneragala districts.
4. delegate well versed in the subject of pre-childhood development recommended by the
Minister.
8. (1) The secretary of the subject of education in the Ministry of education of the province of Uva
should be the chairman of the advisory board out of the members appointed as ex-officio of the committee
while a suitable and an appropriate person appointed by the Governor shall be the secretary of the
committee.
(2) The term of office of the advisory committee should be limited to three years.
(3) The quorum for a meeting of the advisory committee should consist of five members.
(4) Unless a member named resigns, dies dismissed or vacates the post earlier the member should
function in the post for three years.
(5) If any appointed member gets absent for three consecutive days for three meetings without
any valid reason accepted and considered by the advisory board such member should be treated as having
vacated the post and after the secretary of the committee informs the Governor, the Governor shall appoint
a suitable successor.
(6) Any member in the advisory committee can be ejected from at any time by the Governor after
informing in writing.
(7) Any named member can inform in writing that he wishes to resign from the post, while if the
Governor accepts his resignation the member can resign from his post.
(8) In an instance where a member shall demise resign, or ejected from the post or the post in fallen
vancant for some other reason the governor shall consider the provision in paragraph 7(1) A and another
person shall be appointed as a successor. A successor appointed so in lieu of such member shall hold the
post for unexpended balance period held by the predecessor as a member of the committee.
(9) A person name as a member to this committee once should be able to be named again as a
committee member.
Term of office.
Quorum for the
committee.
entitled period of
a member for the
post.
that can be
vacation of post.
ejection from
the post.
resignation from
post.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'25
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2012
Maintaining of
the committee.
The duties and
tasks of the
advisory
committee.
Preparation of a
common
syllabus.
(1) The advisory committee should prepare the procedures relevant to matters in regard to
maintaining of this committee subject to the other provision contained in the charter.
(2) The advisory committee should meet at least once in three months.
10. If any person,
(A) is not a citizen of Sri Lanka or ceases being a citizen,
or
(B) is being stated insane bankrupted under any laws or regulations in force in Sri Lanka or
any other country
or
(C) is being stated to have been punished or is being punished with a term of imprisonment by
a court of Law/jurisdiction of Sri Lanka or any other country.
or
(D) If the Governor gains an opinion that anyone as a member of the advisory board is subject
to any monetary or any other connection detrimental or harmful to him in executing his
duties.
or
(E) is being punished or subject to be a convict or offender under any offence coming under
this charter shall be Ineligible or unsuitable to be appointed as a member of the advisory
committee, or execute duties of tasks.
11. Any decision or action taken by the advisory committee shall not become powerless, invalid
or cancelled owing to the fact that a vacancy or deficiency in appointing a member thereon.
12. The advisory Committee shall perform the following duties and tasks,
(A) Taking relevant decisions on principles in connection with centres and preparation of
relevant orders in executing them and to inform and submit such orders to the minister.
(B) Identify the duties and tasks that should be fulfilled by the sections and prepare a work
strategy, and advice, review and supervise in connection with it and issue instructions
from time to time.
(C) Supervise the activities of the registered centres within the administrative area of the
provincial council of Uva order the syllabus for relevant subjects in the centres revise and
take other decisions relevant to the principles of them.
(D) Identify the children who need special attention prepare programmes for the future to suit
them and also Parents of such children should be made aware and take steps to prepare
programmes appropriate for the development of such children.
(E) To decide about the steps to be taken against the centres which perform activities and
maintain centres contrary to the provision contained in the charter.
(F) To scrutiniz and examine the appeals received in respect of registration of centres and
inform suitable instructions to the competent authority in this charter.
13. The advisory committee should prepare a syllabus that should be utilized by all centres in Uva
province in accordance with the guidance of the National Education institute while it should be activated
in all centres in the province of Uva after the acceptance of the syllabus by the minister.
Meeting of the
committee.
Ineligibility or
unsuitability to
be a member of
the committee.
5 — PG 001377

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'25
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2012
6A
Minimum
facilities that
should be there.
the standards of
centres.
standards can be
ordered.
SECTION IV
STANDARDS FOR THE CENTRES
14. (1) The centres should consist of the following basic and minimum facilities :
(A) Allocation of at least ten square feet of room in the building for a single child should be
possessed in the centres.
(B) To construct a water sealed latrine system consisting of one latrine for every twenty five
children.
(C) The floor of the building should be rendered with cement or such permanent cover out of
the room extent of the building and the doors and windows should consist of 1/7 of the
total square feet for ventilation.
(D) The premises and the precincts of the centre should be well secured by means of a parapet
wall or at least with a secured fence.
(E) A first aid box should be maintained under the instructions of the competent authority.
(F) There should be a play compound in every centre with sufficient room to play.
(G) There should be clean and pure drinking water and sufficient water facilities Required for
other purposes.
(H) There should be teaching staff in every centre for the proportion of (1:20) one to twenty
for ordinary students and 1 : 5 (one to five) for special children.
(I) The ground or the garden of every centre should be prepared with a pleasant looking
environment and it should consist of basic sports facilities as ordered by the competent
authority.
(J) There should be sufficient furniture and equipment and they should be maintained in a
pleasant way to bring about the mental pleasure of the children.
(K) There should be an appropriate and a suitable place prepared to do religious rites and
activities.
(2) A centre should not be established where there is a dangerous and a harmful environment or
even in an area where there is a dangerous or harmful area within 100 m (One hundred metres) from the
centre.
15. The owners, managers or administrations should take action to maintain each and every such
centre that is maintained in the province of Uva by the date this charter is effected and before a time period
prior to enactment and of one year being elapsed according to the standards contained and indicated in
item 14 of the charter on effecting the chater.
16. The minister is able to order from time to time what the standards are to be followed by each
and every centre to become eligible to be registered under this charter from time to time.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'25
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2012
registration
should be applied
within three
months.
delayed
applications for
registration.
registration of
new centres.
rejection of
registration.
SECTION  V
REGISTRATION  OF  CENTERS
17. After enactment or the date of operation of this charter basic childhood development centre or
a day care centre or a pre-school or a centre for physical and mental development of children below five
years should not be maintained or established without the approval of the competent authority.
18. The owner, manager, or the administrator of each and every centre maintained in the province
of Uva should apply for registration from the competent authority before expending three months of
publishing this charter in the gazette.
19. After publishing this charter in the gazette and within three months if the owner, manager, or
the administrator fails to apply for registration according to the item 18 above in this ordinance and later
apply for registration with justifiable and fair reasons for the failure that can be seen at a glance the
competent authority shall consider the expended time and register such centres by charging an additional
fee.
20. After this charter is enacted newly inaugurating  centres should be registered prior to
inauguration.
21. (1) The applicant should pay the fee for registration as ordered by the competent authority.
(2) The qualifications and other requirements for registration, relevant forms and fees should be
expressed by the competent authority.
(3) The competent authority has the power to extend period for registration to charge an extra fee
for the delayed period or impose a fine.
22. (1) Every institution maintained by the time of executing this charter in the objective of any
form of an educational affair for children below five years in the province of Uva shall be considered as a
basic childhood development centre or a day care center.
(2) The day care centres maintained for small children below five years of age by the social
services department and basic childhood development centres under probation department should also be
registered under this charter.
23. Anyone who inaugurates or maintains violating the provision or acting contrary to the provision
of the charter shall be treated as an offence under the provision of this charater and he shall be subject to
a fine of Rs. 500 (five hundred rupees). However if the same offence is being done right throughout by such
person action will be taken according to the item 40 below of the charter before expending six months.
24. If and when an application is tendered to the competent authority by some institution
maintaining a basic childhood development centre or a pre-school or a pre-childhood development centre
or a day care centre by the day this charter is executed and if such application is not in terms of the
provision in this charter the competent authority can reject the application for registration on informing the
reasons.
(1) In an instance of such rejection of registration the applicant, owner or the manager of the
centre should be informed the reasons for the rejection within a month the application was
tendered for registration.
(2) in an instance  such rejection is made the owner or the manager of the centre can submit
an appeal in that regard to the Secretary within ten days.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'25
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2012
8A
The register
registration
certificate and
number.
Educational
Qualification for
resource persons.
period of time
given to fulfill
the
qualifications.
ejection
unqualified
resource persons.
(3) On receipt of such an appeal the secretary should submit it to the advisory board a
decision should be taken by obtaining the observations and recommendations of the
advisory board.
(4) The decision taken by the advisory board in respect of registration of centres shall be
final.
25. (1) A register should be maintained in respect of registration of centres with the names and
addresses of such centres, the names and addresses of the persons who maintain them and any other
details that the competent authority decides about centres maintained by the time this charter has been
enacted and operated and centres registered after executing provision of this charter and newly opened
centres with registration according to the provision in the charter.
(2) All centres with proper standards should be registered by the competent authority and a
number and the register, certificate and certificate of registration should be given the number of
registratiion.
(3) Such certificate should be treated as a valid legal document in respect of tasks in this charter.
S
ECTION  VI
REQUIRED QUALIFICA TIONS AND TRAINING OF RESOURCE PERSONS OF CENTRES
26. (1) The persons who develop the knowledge, talents, concepts and intelligence of children in
the centres by the date this charter is executed herein after called as “Resource Persons” and such persons
called as resource persons including any of the teachers, instructors, administrators, assistants of both
sexes who are engaged in such tasks should have passed at least ordinary level exam in six subjects
including sinhala language, mathematics in the general certificate of education held by the Department of
Examinations of Sri Lanka or should have followed a course in basic childhood development under an
institution recognized by the advisory board.
(2) Those resource persons who are engaged in centres inaugurated after executing this charter
should have passed in three subjects in the Advanced Level Examination of the general certificate of
education held by the Department of Examination of Sri Lanka.
27. If resource persons engaged in the centres which were being conducted and maintained
before the enactment and executing of this charter have not fulfilled  the qualifications mentioned above in
the ordinary level examination of the general certificate of education should pass such examination within
two years of the executing of this charter or should follow and pass an educational course in basic
childhood development held by a recognized institution ordered by the competent authority.
28. The competent authority has the power to order to leave or eject resource persons who are
unqualified in basic educational qualifications mentioned above and those who have failed to fulfill such
basic educational qualifications within the specified period given any resource person who has received
such an order and violates that order it is an offence under this charter.
29. (1) All resource persons engaged in any centre by the time this charater is executed should
apply for registration to the competent authority within six months of executing of this charter.
(2) Any individual who makes an application for such registration who is working as a resource
person and has fulfilled the qualifications the competent authority should register the details of such
person in a register and issue an identity card proving that he is a resource person.
registering of
resource persons.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'25
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2012
None should
work as resource
without being
registered.
Ability of
Minister to make
orders.
(3) Not a single individual should work as a resource person who has not been registered, while
anyone who violates or work contrary to this provision shall be treated as an individual who has committed
an offence under this charter persons.
30. All training institutions situated in the province of Uva which train resource persons for the
task of basic childhood development (except national level state institutions) should be registered with the
competent authority while a registration certificate should be obtained from the competent authority while
if such an institute is being maintained without such registration it is an offence under this charter.
31. The competent authority should prepare a formal work programme relevant to the training
persons every year and submit to the advisory committee.
32. The competent authority has the power to order to leave or eject the resource persons who do
not participate in training programmes conducted by the advisory committee.
33. The resource persons in centres should continuously attend training programmes ordered
according to a time frame by the advisory committee.
34. The competent authority should prepare a formal plae as an awarenness programme for the
parents with advice and instructions of the advisory committee.
S
ECTION  VII
GENERAL PROVISION
35. (1) The Minister is able to make rules and regulations or orders that are being ordered in this
charter to be ordered or the power vested in this charter, to make orders at any required instance or matter.
(2) All rules, regulations and orders made by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette and
from that date or any definite post date mentioned in the order such rules, regulations or orders should be
executed.
(3) After publishing all rules, regulations and orders made by the Minister in the Gazette it should
be submitted to the provincial council as soon as possible for approval. All non approved rules regulations
and orders shall be treated as cancelled from the date of such non-approval without being a hindrance or
harm for anything done under it earlier.
(4) Any rule, order or regulation that has been treated as cancelled should be published in the
Gazette as a notice with date of such non-approval.
(5) All rules, regulations and orders made by the Minister under sub-section (1) above should be
powerful as orders made through the charter after the approval of the provincial council.
36. If in the idea of the Minister services of any individual is requried to execute the tasks and
duties contained in the charter for a limited period the Minister can obtain such services while an incentive
payment can be made when the Governor orders an incentive payment to him or her.
37. An incentive payment can be made to registered centres, annually by the competent authority
with the approval of the advisory committee.
38. The competent authority, should take action to issue any report or document required by the
Governor or advisory committee or the secretary or the director or the Minister and also should take action
if an appropriate order advice or any guidance given.
the training
institutes must be
registered.
the power to
eject those who
do not partici-
pate in training.
training
compulsory.
parents of
children should
be made aware.
incentive
payment
annually to
centres.

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'25
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2012
10A
SECTION  VIII
OFFENCES, PENALTIES AND PUNISHMENTS
39. If any breach or violation of rules, regulations, orders and laws or provision made under this
charter or obstruct to carry out duties and tasks of any individual who holds powers or take action or work
according to provision thereon will be an offence under this charter.
40. Each and every individual who commits an offence maintained in such section 39 above if
found guilty of such offence before a Magistrate after a brief court case such individual shall be subject to
a fine not exceeding Rs. 10,000 (Rupees Ten thousand) or term of imprisonment not exceeding six months
or subject to one or both punishments.
41. If and when fulfilling the objectives of this charter or by going to execute any provision or rule
contained in this charter or perform duties and tasks under this charter the competent authority or any
officer delegated by him and detailed in writing should be able to submit matters or give evidence in a court
of law if found necessary.
42. If anybody is fulfilling the tasks and duties of this charter or appointed or named for such
purpose such individual or individuals will be treated as government servants under the penal code.
43. When this charter is enacted and executed the Basic childhood charter No. 5 of the year 2011
of the Provincial Council of Uva will be treated as non-effective and cancelled.
I
NTERPRETATION
44. Unless and otherwise there is a different interpretation or complication in the meanings in
words and phrases. In this charter and required so
“Province” means “Provincial Council” means provincial council established as Uva Province
Provincial Council under ordinance 154 A(1) of the Chapter xvii of the Constitution of
Sri Lanka.
“Competent Authority” is the competent authority in this charter is the officer appointed on a
formal basis and the Officer who could work on behalf of him.
“Provincial Council State Service” means the Provincial Council State Service established
under the ordinance No. 32 of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987.
“Centres” means centres established as day care centres given education and protection to
children below 5 years.
Pre-schools, Pre-childhood development centres including the centres established to develop
mental and physical Development and protection of children.
“Managers” The owners, managers, administrators and enterpreneurs who maintain these
centres.
“special Children” The children who are disabled in eye sight, hearing and body and certains
whose mental and physical growth is slow.
“An individual or person maintaining centres” means a person or individual who is maintaining
centres or Enterpreneur or voluntary organization or corporate institution.
“Scheduled date” or “definite date” means the date of approval of the charter.
45. If there is a different version in Sinhala and English versions the Sinhala version shall be
accepted as correct.
08-298
Breach and
violate provision
and rules and
orders and
obstructing duties
and tasks.
Penalties for
convicts.
Court duties.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.