

<!-- page 1 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2019
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) – PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Provincial  Council  Notifications
SOUTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL 
STATUTE  OF CO - OPERATIVE  EMPLOYEES  COMMISSION  BEARING  No. 05 OF  2019
UNDER  THE  SOUTHERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
I, UDALAMATHTHA GAMAGE DAYAWANSHA  ARIYATHILAKA Minister of Agriculture, Agrarian Development,
Irrigation, Water supplying  and Drainage, Food supplying and Distribution and Trade and Co - operative Development of
Southern Provincial Council hereby inform to the General Public that the Statute  of Co - operative  Employees commission
No. 05 of 2019 which had already been approved dated 01.04.2019 by the Hon. Governor of Southern Province followed by
the approval made dated 26.03.2019 by the Southern Provincial Council is enacted since 01st of April in 2019.
U
DALAMA THTHA GAMAGE DAY AW ANSHA ARIYATHILAKA,
Minister of   Agriculture, Agrarian Development, Irrigation,
Water Supplying  and Drainage, Food Supplying and
Distribution  and Trade and Co - operative Development of
Southern Provincial Council
4th Floor, Dakshinapaya, Labuduwa, Galle,
At the Minister's Office, Ministry of  Agriculture, Southern Province,
Dated 01st April 2019.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A – PG4477 – 10 (04/2019)
wxl 2118$44 – 2019 wfm%a,a ui 09 jeks wÕyrejdÞ – 2019'04'09
No. 2118/44  – TUESDAY, APRIL 09, 2019


<!-- page 2 -->

2A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2019
Co-operative Employees Commission of the
Southern Province Statute
A STATUTE TO PROVIDE  FOR THE ESTABLISH MENT OF A CO-OPERATIVE EMPLOYEES
COMMISSION OF THE SOUTHERN  PROVINCE; TO MAKE PROVISIONS IN RESPECT OF
EMPLOYEES OF CO - OPERATIVE  SOCIETIES IN THE SOUTHERN  PROVINCE AND TO PROVIDE FOR
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH  OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
1. (1) This Statute may be cited as the Co-operative Employees Commission  of  the Southern  Province
Statute, No. 05 of  2019.
(2) The provisions of the Co-operative Employees Commission Act, No. 12 of 1972 in so far as they
are inconsistent with the provisions of this Statue, remain suspended and inoperative in the
Southern Province.
2. The Minister may, in consultation with the Provincial Commissioner and the Commission, by order
published in the Gazette,exempt from the applicaton of the Provisions of this Statute-
(a) any such co-operative society as shall be specified therein; or
(b) any such class of co -operative societies as shall be so specified.
PART  I
Establishment of  The  Co-operative Employees Commission of  the Southern Province
3. (1) A commission known as the Co-operative Employees Commission of the Southern Province (in
this Statute referred to as the ''Commission") is hereby established.
(2) The Commission shall, by the name assigned to it by subsection (1), be a body corporate with
perpetual succession  and a Common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.
4. The Commission shall consist of  three members appointed by the minister taking into consideration
the provisions of section 5 and those members shall be Attorneys - at Law  who shall not be over
65 years of age and have been engaged in legal profession at least 10 years.
5. A Person shall be disqualified from being  appointed or continuing  as a member of the  Commission,
If he  -
(a) Is an employee or a past employee of a co-operative Society;
(b) Is a person who is a member of any body of persons  whether corporate or unin corporated which
has  as  its  objects, or one of its objects, the regulation of salaries, wages or conditions of
services of any category of employees of co-operative societies;
(c) is a person who is an officer of a co-operative society;
(d) is or becomes, a member of  Parliament or any Provincial Council or any local authority ;
(e) is not or ceases to be a citizen of  Sri Lanka;
(f) is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any other country, found or declared to be of  unsound
mind;
Short Title and
the date of
operation.
Constitution of
the Commission.
Disqualification
for being  a
member of the
Commission.
Establishment of
the Co-operative
Employeres
Commission.
Minister to
exempt
cooperative
societies from
the  application
of this Act.

<!-- page 3 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2019
3A
(g) is serving, or has served, a sentence  of imprisonment  on a criminal offence;
(h) is directly  or indirectly holds or enjoys  any right or benifit under any contract made by  or on
behalf of the Commission;
(i) is a person who, has been declared  an insolvent or undischarged bankrupt under any law in force
in Sri Lanka  or any other  country;
(j) has any financial or other interest as is likely to affect prejudicially the discharge by  him of  his
functions as a member of the Commission; or
(k) absents himself from three consecutive meetings of the Commission.
6. (1) The Minister shall, appoint one of the members of the Commission as the chairman of the
Commission  (hereinafter  referred to as ‘‘the Chairman’’)  and another
member    as the Vice Chairman.
(2) The Chairman shall be responsible for the preparation of the agenda for the meetings of the
Commission and the submission for the consideration of the Commission of policies and measures
considered by him to be necessary for the purpose  of carrying out the principles and provisions
of this Statute.
(3) The  Chairman may resign from the office of Chairman by letter addressed to the Minister and
such resignation shall be effective from the date on which it is accepted by the Minister.
(4) The Minister may for reasons remove the Chairman from the office of Chairman.
(5) Subject to the provisions of Subsection (3) and (4)  the term of office of the Chairman shall be the
period of his membership of the Commission.
(6) Where the Chairman is temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office due to ill health,
other infirmity, absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may appoint any other
appointed member to act as Chairman in addition to his normal duties as an appointed member.
7. (1) The commission may delegate any of the powers and functions of the Commission to the Chairman.
(2) The Chairman shall exercise the powers, duties or functions so delegated, subject to the general
or special direction of the Commission.
8. (1) The Minister shall, prior to appointing  a person as a member, satisfy himself that such person
has no financial or other  interest  in the affairs  of the Commission, as is likely  to affect prejudicially
the discharging  of his functions as a member  of the Commission.
(2) The Minister shall also satisfy himself from time to time , that no member of the Commission  has
since being appointed acquired  any such interest.
(3) (a) A member of the Commission who is in anyway, directly or indirectly, interested  in any
contract  made or proposed to be made  by the commission shall  disclose the  nature of  his
interest at a  meeting of the Commission; and
(b) Such disclosure shall be recorded in the minutes of  the meetings of  the Commission  and the
member shall not participate in any deliberation or decision of the Commission  with regard to that
contract.
Chairman of the
Commission.
Commission to
delegate its
powers to
Chairman
Financial interest
of the members.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2019
9. (1) A member of the Commission may resign  his office by letter addressed to the Minister and such
resignation   shall be effective from  the date on which it is accepted by the Minister.
(2) The Minister may for reasons assigned remove a member from office.
(3) (a) Where a member of the Commission dies, resigns or is removed from office, the Minister
shall, having regard to the  provisions  of  Sections 4 and 5, appoint another member  in his place.
(b) The Minister shall  appoint a member for a vacancy in paragraph  (a) as soon as possible.
(4) A member appointed  under Sub Section  (3) shall hold office for the unexpired period of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds.
(5) Where a member is  temporarily  unable to perform the duties of the office due to  ill health  or
absence from Sri Lanka or for any other  reason, the  Minister  may having regard  to the
provisions  of Sections 4  and 5 appoint another  person to act in his place.
(6) Subject to the preceding provisions of these sections, the term of office of an appointed member
of the commission shall be three  years and such member shall be eligible  for re- appointment
unless removed  on disciplinary grounds.
10. (1) The Chairman shall preside at every meeting of the commission. In the absence of the Chairman
from any such meeting the Vice Chairman shall preside at such meeting.
(2) (a) All matters for decision by the Commission shall be dealt  with at a meeting of the commission
and shall be determined by the majority of the members present and voting.
(b) In the event of and equality of votes on any question considered at a meeting  the member
presiding  at the meeting shall have a casting vote in addition  to his original  vote.
(c) All decisions of the Commission supported by reasons shall be in  writing and the seal of
the Commission be affixed thereto.
(3) (a) Any member of the Commission  may be written  notice, request the  Chairman to call a
meeting  and the Chairman  shall not otherwise  than  for justifiable  reasons refuse to do so.
(b) The Secretary appointed under Section  25 shall summon all meetings of the Commission.
(4) No act or decision or proceeding of the Commission shall be invalidated by reason only of the
exsistence of a vacancy among its members or any defect in the appointment of a member
thereof.
(5) The quorum for a meeting of the Commission shall be two members.
(6) Subject to the provisions of  Section, the Commission may regulate the procedure in regard to
meetings of the Commission and the transaction of business at such meetings.
11. (1) The Commission may establish committees to assist it in the exercise of  its powers or performance
of its functions or duties, consisting of such number of members as it may deem necessary.
(2) The Commission may delegate any of its powers, functions or duties to a committee, but shall
not be divested of any power, function or duty which it may have delegated to a committee.
(3) The Commission may amend or revoke any decision made by such committee.
Provisions
relating
to members.
Meetings of the
Commission.
Committees of the
Commission.

<!-- page 5 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2019
5A
12. (1)  The seal of the Commission shall be as determined by the Commission.
(2) The seal of the Commission-
(a) may be altered in such manner as may be determined by the Commission;
(b) shall be in the custody of such person or persons as the Commission may determine; and
(c) shall not be affixed to any instrument or document without the sanction of the Commission
and except in the presence of two members of the Commission, both of whom shall sign the
instrument or document  in token of their presence.
(3) The Commission shall maintain a register of documents to which seal of the Commission has
been affixed.
13. The Chairman, Vice Chairman, and the other member of the Commission shall be paid such
remuneration at such rates as may be determind by the Minister, on the recommed action of the chief
secretary and with the concurrence of the Provincial Minister assigned the subject of Finance.
14. (1) The members of the Commission shall, take an oath or make an affirmation in the form set out
in  the Shedule to this Staute, on their first appointment.
(2) The Secretary to the Commission, and such of the other officers of the Commission as may be
required so to do by the Chairman, shall take an oath or make an affirmation in the form set out
in this Shedule to this Staute, on their first appointment.
PART II
Powers and Functions of  the Commission
15. (1) The powers of the Commission shall be :-
(a) to determine all matters relating to methods of recruitment, terms and conditions of
employment of employees of a co-operative society, and the principles to be followed
by such societies in making appointments and making promotions from one post in a
co-operative society to another post in the same society;
(b) to conduct examinations for recruitment as employees of co-operative societies or to
appoint boards of examiners for the purpose of conducting such examinations and to
charge fees from candidates presenting themselves for examinations;
(c) to determine the qualifications necessary for appointment to any post of  a cooperative
society, to fix the scales of salaries to be attached to any such post in any class or
grade, to revise or adjust such scales of salaries, from time to time, in consultation with
the Provincial Commissioner;
(d) to establish such consultative machinery as the Commission may deem necessary to
assist it in determining the remuneration and conditions of service of co-operative
employees;
(e) to order co-operative societies to pay salaries in accordance with the salary scales
fixed by the Commission for any post or posts in any class or grade;
(f) to determine the procedure or procedures to be follwed by any co-operative society in
exercising its rights of disciplinary action againts its employees, to call upon any
The seal .
Remuneration
of members.
Taking of oaths
by members and
officers of the
Commission.
Powers of the
Commission.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2019
co-operative society to commerce disciplinary inquiries againts its employees and to
complete such inquiries within a time stipulated by the Commission, and to hear appeals
arising out of any disciplinary orders made by any co-operative society;
(g) to require any co-operative society to keep and maintain such register or records
relating to employees of that society, in the form and manner as may be perscribed;
(h) to require any co-operative society to furnish before a specified date such prescribed
records, files, other documents or information as the Commission may require in respect
of any employee of that society;
(i) to appoint a panel or panels of officers to make such inquiries as are necessary in
respect of appeals that may be referred by the Commission to such panel or panels to
report thereon to the Commission;
(j) to require any co-operative society  to carry out such instructions, including instructions
relating to reinstatement, as may be given bye the Commission in regard to any employee
of such society, where the conduct of the employee has been the subject of an inquiry
and the employee has appealed to the Commission against the decision of the society;
(k) to determine the general principles in accordance with which gratuity or other benefits
may be granted to employees on the termination of their services;
(l) to advice the Minister, in consulation with the Provincial Commissioner, in regard to
the exemption of any co-operative society or class of co-operative societies from the
operation of this Statue;
(m) Give such directions to any cooperative society or an employ of such society or an
employ of such society, as the Commission may deem necessary; and
(n) to direct any relevant  co-operative societies to carry out such instructions as may be
given by the Commission after hearing an appeal made to the Commission against a
transfer of a co-operative employee carried out under section 19 of this Statute
(2) In the exercise of the powers vested in the Commission by Sub - section. (1) the Commission
may modify, vary or revise or set aside any decision or determinations made by the Commission.
PART  III
Co-operative   Societies   and   their   Employees
16. (1) Every  Co-operative society, and  any employee of such Society, shall comply with the  directions as
may be given by the Commission under Section 15.
2. Any employer of co-operative society  who fails to appear before an inquiry or an official necessity
of a Commission shall face an inquiry conducted by the Commission.
17. Every decision or direction of the Commission in the discharge and exercise of its powers and functions
under this Statute, shall be binding on all co-operative societies or any employee of such societies.
Co-operative
societies and
their employees
to be subject to
directions of  the
Commission.
Decisions and
directions of
Commission to be
binding  on Co-
operative
societies.

<!-- page 7 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2019
7A
18. Every Co-operative society shall pay, out of its funds, the salaries and other allowances, if any, to its
employees.
19. (1) A Co-operative society may transfer any employee of such society from any one of its work places
to any other of its work places, and where such transfer is made for any reasons other than on disciplinary
grounds, such transfer shall not adversely affect the emoluments of any such employee.
(2)  The Commission may have the power to transfer any employee of a Co-operative society to
another co-operative society as an employee of the latter society at the joint request of two employees
holding posts of similar status, provided that the  concurrence of the respective employers has been
previously obtained.
20. (1) No employee of a co-operative society shall be dismissed or otherwise be punished by such
co-operative society except in accordance with the provisions of this Statute or any regulation or rule made
thereunder.
(2) Nothing in the proceeding provisions of this section shall be deemed to render it unlawful for
any co-operative society to continue and complete in accordance with the provisions that were in force
prior to the date of coming into operation of this Statute, any disciplinary proceedings already pending
against any of its employees in respect of any misconduct or breach of discipline or other cause of complaint
which may have occured or arisen before such date.
21. (1)A Co-operative society shall not require any employee to furnish by way of security an amount in
excess of such sum as the Minister may prescribe by regulations.
(2) A Co-operative society shall  invest in a state bank in the name of the society any security
furnished under sub section (1) and any interest accuring thereon shall be paid to the
employee.
22. Every Co-operative society shall -
(a) keep and maintain the prescribed registers or records relating to its employees
(b) furnish to the Commission such returns or reports relating  to its employees as may be
prescribed or such information as the Commission may, from time to time, require; and
(c) Permit any member or servant of the Commission authorized in that behalf to enter any
of its officers and to inspect and take copies of any books, accounts, records or other
documents kept therein.
23.  Every Co-operative society and every employee of such society shall contribute periodically to the
Employees, Provident Fund and the Employees Trust Fund  such amounts  as may be required  by any
written law.
24.  Any co-operative society may, in the interest of  its efficient operation.
(a) engage on a contractual basis, the services of an expert or any specialist on such terms
and conditions as the co-operative society may determine, with prior approval of the
Commission; or
(b) engage casual or daily paid employees or employees paid on a piece rate basis;
Transfer of
employees of
co-operative
societies
Salaries of
employees of
Co-operative
societies
Dismissal  and
punishment of
employees of
co-operative
societies
Duties of
Co-operatives
society in
respect of its
employees.
Provident Fund
and the
Employees'
Trust Fund
Security furnish
by employees of
Co-operative
Societies
Engagement of
contractual,
casual or daily
paid employees

<!-- page 8 -->

8A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2019
Provided however, that such employees shall not be employed for a period  of over thirty days without the
concurrence of the Commission.
PART  IV
Secretary  and  the  Staff  of  the  Commission
25.There shall be a Secretary of the Commission, who shall be an officer of the Sri Lanka administrative
service.
PART  V
Finance
26.The expenses of the Commission shall be paid out  of the moneys provided for the purpose by the
Annual Financial Statement of the Provincial Council of the  Southern province.
27. The commission may open and maintain any account with any bank as it may think appropriate and
such accounts shall be operated in accordance with prevailing financial regulations of the Provincial Council
pertaining to financial transactions of public corporations.
28. (1) The financial year of the commission  shall be the calendar year.
(2) The commission shall cause proper books of accounts  to be kept of the income and
expenditure, asset  and liabilities and all other transactions  of  the Commission.
(3) For the purpose  of presenting  a true and fair view of the financial  performance and
financial  condition of the Commission, the commission   shall prepare the accounts in accordance with the
Provincial Council Financial Rules.
(4) The provision  of Article 154 of the Constitution relating   to the audit of the account of
public co-operation shall apply to the audit of  the accounts of the Commission.
29. Moneys belonging to the Commission may, with the approval of the Provincial Minister and with the
concurrence of the Minister assigned the subject of Finance, be invested in government approved securities.
30. (1)  The Commission may, with the written consent of the Minister and the Provincial Minister assigned
with the subject of Finance and in accordance with the terms of any general authority given, borrow or
obtain on credit terms such sums as the Commission may require for meeting the obligations of the
Commission.
(2) The aggregate of the amount outstanding in respect of any loans raised by the Commission under
this section shall not at any time exceed such amount as may be determined by the Minister.
PART VI
General
31. (1) The Minister may from time to time issue to the Commission such general or special directions
in writing as to the exercise and  performance of its powers  and  functions and it  shall be the duty of the
Commission to give effect to such directions,
Secretary of  the
Commission
Financial
Provisions.
Commission to
maintain
accounts.
Financial year
and audit of
accounts.
Investment of
funds.
Borrowing
powers of the
Commission.
Minister to issue
directions.

<!-- page 9 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2019
9A
(2) The Minister may direct the Commission to furnish to him in such form as he may require,
returns, accounts or any other information relating to the work of the Commission and it shall be the duty of
the Commission to due effect to such directions.
32. (1) The Commission shall within six months of the end of each financial year, submit to the Minister an
annual report of the activities carried on by the Commission during that financial year, and cause a copy
each of the following documents relating to that year to be attached to the report -
(a) the audited Accounts of the Commission for the year;
(b) a report of  proposed activities for the year immediately following the year to which such report
and accounts relate.
(2) The Minister shall lay copies of the report and documents submitted under subsection (1) before
the Provincial Council within six months from the date of receipt of such report.
33. Every member of the Commission and all officers and employees of the Commission shall, before
entering upon his duties, sign a declaration pledging to observe  strict secrecy in respect of all matters
connected with the affairs of the Commission, which has come to his knowledge in the performance or
exercise of his power and functions under this Act and shall by such declaration pledge himself not to
disclose any such matter, except -
(a) when required to do so by a court of law; or
(b) for the purpose of exercising or performing the powers, functions and duties under this
Statute or any other written law.
34. (1) The Commission may in writing and subject to such conditions as may be specified therein, delegate
to any officer of the Commission any of its powers, functions or duties and any such officer shall exercise
or perform such power, function or duty in the name and on behalf, of the Commission.
(2) The Commission may, notwithstanding any delegation made under subsection (1), by itself  exercise
or perform any power, function or duty so delegated and may at any time revoke any such delegation.
35. The Secretary and the officers and employees of the Commission shall be deemed to be public officers
within the meaning of and for the purposes of the Penal Code.
36. The Commission shall be deemed to be a Scheduled Institution within the meaning and for the purposes
of the Bribery Act and the provisions of the Act shall be constructed accordingly.
37. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of all matters required by this Statute to be prescribe or
in respect of which regulations are authorized by this Statute to be made.
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by subdection (1), the
Minister may, in consultation with the Commission, make regulations in respect of all or any of the following
matters-
(a) the fees to be charged under this Statute;
(b) the registers or records realting to employees of a co-operative society, which shall
be  maintained under section 15(g);
Commission to
submit a report
Declaration of
Secrecy
Delegation of
powers of the
Commission.
Officers and
employees of the
Commission
deemed to be
public Officers.
Commission
deemed bo be a
Schedule
institution
Regulations.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2019
(c) the residential qualifications required to be maintanined in order to be appointed to
any post in a co-operative society;
(d) the amount of security to be furnished by an employee of a co-operative society;
(e)  conduct of examinations for recruitment as an employee of a co-operative society;
(f) the recruitment procedure, appointment, promotion, transfer, resignation and
termination of services of employees of a co-operative society;
(g) the terms and conditions of employment of such employees and the salary scales,
payment  of  allowances and gratuities, the grant of advances, promotion, leave, the
interdiction of officers, dismissals or the imposition of any other form of pinishment
to such employees and any appeal therefrom;
(h) such other matters relating to the terms of employment, or the conditions os service,
of  such employees as are deemed necessary.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into
operation on the date of such publication or on such later date as may be specified in the regulation.
(4) (a) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, within six months after its publication in the
Gazette, be brought before the Provincial Council for approval.
 (b) Any such regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the
date of its disapproval, but without prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.
(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation made by the Minister is deemed to be so
rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
38. (1) The Commission may make rules in respect of all or any of the following matters-
(a) the matters in respect of which the Commission is required or athourized
to make rules under any other provision of this Statute;
(b) the metings of the Commission and the procedure to be followed at such
meetings ; and
(c) any other matter connected with the affairs of the Commission.
(2) Every rule made by the Commission shall be published in the Gazette.
39. (1) Any Co-operative society or any employee thereof –
(a) which or who contravenes the provisions of this Statute; or
(b) which or who willfully neglects or refuses or fails to do any act required by
the Commission to be done, or to furnish any information required for the
purposes of this Statute by the Commission or other duly authorised
person;
Powers of the
Commission to
make rules
Offences and
penalties.

<!-- page 11 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2019
11A
(c)  which or who willfully makes a false return or furnishes false information;
(d) which or who obstructs, without any jusifiable or lawful basis, any person
acting in the exercise of his powers  under this Statute or any regulation
made thereunder;
(e) acting under the authority of this Statute, behaves or conducts himself in
a vexations or provocative manner, while exercising or discharging any
power, function or duty under this Statute;
(f)  which or who contravenes any of the provisions of this Act or any
regulation made thereunder, of fails to comply with any direction given to
him under the provisions of this Act,
commits an offence under this Statute.
(2) Every co-operative society or employee which or who commits any offence under subsection
(1) shall, on conviction by a Magistrate, be  liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both such fine and such imprisonment.
(3) Where any offence under this Statute is committed by a co-operative society, every officer of
that society shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence, unless he proves that the offence was committed
without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of the offence.
(4) On the conviction of any co-operative society for failure to carry out any such instructions
given by the Commission as requies the reinstatement of any employee, such co-operative society shall be
liable-
(a)  to pay, in addition to any punishment that may be imposed on such
co-operative society under subsection (2) a fine of five hundred rupees
for each day on which the failure is continued after  conviction thereof;
and
(b) to pay such employee the remuneration which would have been payable
to him if he had  been in such service on each such day and on each day
of the period  commencing on the date on which he should have been
reinstated in service according to the instructions of the Commission and
ending on the date of the conviction of such co-operative society,
computed at the rate of salary or wages to which he would have been
entitled if his services had not been terminated.
Any sum which a co-operative society is liable to pay under paragraph (b) of this subsection may be
recovered on the order of the Court by which it was convicted as if  it were a fine imposed on it by that court
and the amount so recovered shall be paid to the employee.
40. Every person who, otherwise than in course of his duty, directly or indirectly, by himself or  by any other
person, in any manner whatsover influences or attempts to influence any decision of the Commission or
any member thereof shall be guilty of an offence, and shall, on conviction after summary trial before a
Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six months or to both such fine and such imprisonment.
41. No member of the Commission, nor the Secretary of the Commission, nor any member of the  staff of the
Commission, nor any other person shall publish or disclose to any person, otherwise than in the exercise of
his official functions, the contents of any document, communication or information  whatsoever which has
come to his notice in the course of his duties.
Interference with
the Commission.
Unauthorised
disclosure of
information
prohibited.

<!-- page 12 -->

12A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2019
42. (1) The Co-operative Employees Commission of the Soluthern Province Statue No. 01 of 1998 is
hereby repealed.
  (2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the aforesaid Statute-
(a) every regulation, rule, order, notice, guideline or direction issued,
requirement imposed, determination or delegation made under the repealed
Statute and in force on the date immediately preceding the date of comming
into force of this Statute shall with effect from the date of coming into
force of this Statute be deemed to be a regulation, rule, order, notice,
guideline, direction, requirement, determination or delegation issued,
imposed or made, as the case may be, under the provisions of this Statute;
(b) all property movable and immovable belonging to the Co-operative
Employees Commission established under the repealed Statute on the
date immediately preceding the date of coming into force of this Statute
shall with effect from the date of coming into force of this Statute, vest in
and be deemed to be the property of the Co-operative Employees
Commission established under this Statute;
(c) all suits, prosecutions, actions, proceedings, matters or things which have
been instituted by or agiainst the Co-operative Employees Commission
established under the repealed Statute and which are pending in the date
immediately preceding the date of coming into force of this Statute, shall
with effect from the date of the coming into force of this Statute, be
deemed to be suits, prosecutions, actions, proceedings, matters or things
which have been instiuted by or againts the Co-operative Employees
Commission established under the this Statute and be heard by that court;
(d) any decree, order or award entered or made in favour of or againts the
Co-operative Employees Commission established under the repealed
Statute by any court or tribunal or other body in any action, matter,
proceeding or thing shall, with effect from the date of coming into force of
this Statute, be deemed to be a decree, order or award enterd or made in
favour of or againts the Co-operative Employees Commission established
unde this Statute and may be enforced accordingly;
(e) all officers and servants in the permanent employment of the Co-operative
Employees Commission established under aforesaid Statute on the date
immediately preceding the date of coming  into force of this Statute shall,
with effect from the date of coming into force of this Statute be deemed to
officers  and servants in the permanent employment of the Co-operative
Employees Commission established under this Statute; and
(f) all debts, obligations, assets and liabilities incurred, all contracts and
agreements executed or enforced into and all matters and things engage
agreed to be done by, with or for the  Co-operative Employees Commission
established under repealed Statute and in force  on the date immediately
preceding the date of coming into force of this Statute, be deemed to be
debts, obligations, assets  and liabilities incurred, all contracts and
agreements executed or enforced into and all matters and things engaged
or agreed to be done by, with or for the Co-operative Employees
Commission established under this Statute.
Repeals and
savings

<!-- page 13 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2019
13A
43. In this Statute, unless the context otherwise requires-
‘‘Co-operative society’’ means a co-operative society registered under
Co-operative societies Act, No. 05 of 1972 but does not include any
Co-operative society in respect of which an order under section 2 of this
statute is in force.
‘‘District’’ means any administrative district within the Southern Province;
‘‘employee’’ means a person who is employed by any Co-operative society and
is paid  salaries and other emoluments by such Co-operative society out
of its funds, but does not  include an  officer;
‘‘employer’’ means any cooperative society which pays out of its funds the
salaries  and other emoluments to its employees;
‘‘Minister’’ means the Provincial Minister to whom the subject of Co-operative
development  in the Southern Province is assigned;
‘‘Society officer’’ includes every person who is president, Vice President,
Secretary, Treasure, appointed by a general meeting.
‘‘Prescribe’’ means prescribed by regulations;
‘‘Province’’ means the Southern Province;
‘‘Provincial Commissioner’’ means the provincial Commissioner of  Co-operative
Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies of the Southern
Province appointed under section 2 of the Co-operative Societies Act,
No. 05 of  1972.
‘‘Provincial Council’’ means  the Southern Provincial Council established under
Article 154A of the Constitution.
44.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of  this statute, the
Sinhala text shall prevail.
Schedule
{section 14 (1)}
Oath or affirmation of members of the Commission
I,  ………………………    having been appointed the Chairman/member of the Co-operative Employees Commission
of the Southern province do swear/solemnly and sincerely affirm that I will, without fear or favour, affection or ill- will
discharge the functions of the office of Chairman/member of the Co-operative Employees Commission of the Southern
province and that I will not, directly or  indirectly, reveal any matter relating to such functions to any person otherwise
than in the course of duty.
Sworn/ Affirmed before me this ……………… day of  ………………
…………………………
signature of Affirmant/Deponent
…………………………
Judge of the Provincial High Court
04 - 892 `
Interpretation
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.