

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2012
851
851
wxl 1"758 - 2012 uehs 11 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'05'11
No. 1,758 – FRIDAY , MAY 11, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 853
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... ––
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 18th May, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 04th  May,
2012.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,757 of 04.05.2012 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2012
852
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2012
853
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium
AMPARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births and Deaths Registration Divisions and should be entitled to
properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 11th Jun e, 2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
09th April, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Ampara Kalmuna - Muslim Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Maradamuna Division (Tamil General, District Secretariat,
Medium). Ampara.
05–167
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
KANDY   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
Posts – Vacant

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2012
854
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 11th Jun e, 2012.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
17th April, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy Meda Dumbara Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Uda Dumbara and Births General, District Secretariat,
and Deaths of Udasiyapattuwa North Kandy.
Division.
05–169
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
MATALE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 11th Jun e, 2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
17th April, 2012.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2012
855
SRI   LANKA  REGULAR/VOLUNTEER  AIR   FORCE
Direct Entry Airmen/AirWomen Vacancies
V ACANCIES exist in the Regular/V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force for Direct Entry Airmen/Airwomen in the trades are given
below :-
1. (a) Trades and Educational Qualifications Required  :–
(1)  Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering Trades :
(a) Air Radio/Telegraph Mechanic - Regular (Male - Married/Unmarried) :
Successful completion of a two (02) year fulltime National Certificate Course in Engineering Craft Practice in
Telecommunications/Electronics/Electrical at a Technical College recognized by the Ministry of V ocational and
Technical Training or equivalent.
Selected candidates will be enlisted to the rank of Leading Aircraftsman.
(2) Medical Trades :
(a) Nursing – Volunteer (Female - Unmarried) :
Nursing Candidates who have undergone the full time Nursing course at Government Nursing Training School
(03 year course at the Ministry of Health) and have full registration from the Sri Lanka Medical Council.
Selected candidates will be enlisted to the rank of Corporal.
(b) Nursing Assistant – Volunteer (Male - Married/Unmarried) (Female - Unmarried) :
Nursing Assistant/Paramedical who have undergone Nursing/Paramedical course at the any other recognized
private Nursing/Paramedical School for a minimum period of one (01) year.
Selected candidates will be enlisted to the rank of Leading Aircraftsman/Leading Aircraftswoman.
(b) Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfill the following General Conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular/
V olunteer Air Force :
(1) Nationality : Must be a Citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(2) Age : Years as at 30th June, 2012 ;
Air Radio/Telegraph Mechanic – Not less than 18 years of age and not more than 28 years ;
Nursing Assistant – Male - not less than 18 years of age and not more than 28 years and
Female - not less than 18 years of age and not more than 25 years ;
(3) Height : Regular – Male - 5 feet 5 inches and above ;
V olunteer – Male - 5 feet 4 inches and above ;
V olunteer – Female - 5 feet 3 inches and above ;
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Matale Ukuwela Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Warakamura area in Matale South General, District Secretariat,
Division. Matale
05–168
–––––––––––––––––

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2012
856
(4) Weight : Body Mass Index should according to the Physical Efficiency Test Standards of the Sri
Lanka Air Force
19<BMI<25
BMI = Weight (Kg)
Height2 (m)
(5) Chest : Male 32" Minimum
(6) Vision Colour Standard : CP 2
(7) Visual Acuity : 6/6 each eye (without spectacles)
(8) Civil Status :  Married/Unmarried
Regular - Airmen - Married/Unmarried
V olunteer - Airmen - (Married/Unmarried)
- Airwomen - Unmarried
Unmarried Airwomen is not allowed to marry until the completion of three (03) year
after the completion of the Basic Training Course and unmarried Airmen is not allowed to
marry until the completion of one (01) year after the completion of the Basic Training
Course).
2. Candidates who do not possess the required educational qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 01 “a” and “b”
will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview the height, weight  and vision will be measured. Candidates whose height, weight and
vision is below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification and who have no exceptional skills will not be interviewed. Any
candidate who may have a special skill or value to the service may at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered even
though he/she may not have the requisite height provided he/she possess the requisite academic and professional qualifications.
3. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
4. Conditions of Service :–
(a) Airmen/Airwomen will be governed by the Air Force Act and other Air Force Regulations and Orders with effect from
the date of enlistment.
(b) Selected candidates will be trained in combat and in the selected trades accordingly. They will be required to perform
combat duties and any type of duty, day and night, even under very difficult conditions in any part of Sri Lanka or
abroad.
5. Terms of Engagement.–  Regular – (Airmen) :
Selected candidates will be enlisted to the rank of Grade III Leading Aircraftsman in the Regular Air Force and shall be required
to serve for 12 years in which 08 years will have to be served continuously whilst serving a further 04 years in the Regular Ai r Force
(Reserve) when called to do so. Opportunities exist for suitable Airmen to extend for further service on completion of eight ye ars of
service on the discretion of the Commander of the Sri Lanka Air Force.
Volunteer - (Airmen/Airwomen) :
Selected candidates will be enlisted to the rank of Grade III Leading Aircraftsman/Leading Aircraftswoman/Corporal in the
V olunteer Air Force and shall be required to serve for 05 years continuously. Opportunities exist for suitable Airmen/Airwomen to extend
for further service on completion of five years of service on the discretion of the Commander of the Sri Lanka Air Force.
6. Official Language Requirements.– The selected candidates must confirm to the Official Language Policy of the Government
of Sri Lanka.
7. Pay and Allowances :
(a) Pay rate.– The scale of consolidated pay applicable to Airmen shall be as follows :–
Aircraftman/Aircraftswoman - Rs. 168,000 - 6 x 1,440 - 19 x 1,800 - Rs. 210,840 per annum ;
Leading Aircraftman/Aircraftswoman - Rs. 170,880 - 4 x 1,440 - 19 x 1,800 - Rs. 210,840 per annum ;
Corporal - Rs. 175,200 - 1 x 1,440 - 10 x 1,800 - 9 x 2520 -Rs. 217,320 per annum ;
Sergeant - Rs. 180,240 - 3 x 1,800 - 9 x 2,520 - 3 x 3,480 - Rs. 218,760 per annum ;
Flight Sergeant - Rs. 183,120 - 10 x 2,520 - 3 x 3,480 - Rs. 218,760 per annum ;
Warrant Officer - Rs. 190,680 - 07x2,520 -17x3,480 - Rs. 267,480 per annum ;
Master Warrant Officer-Rs. 211,800-13x3480 - Rs.257,040 per annum.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2012
857
Pay and allowances will be paid according to the consolidated pay scale applicable to Airmen/Airwomen Increments in
promotions will be based in consideration to the service period, good conduct and trade efficiency and will be placed in the ap propriate
pay scale.
(b) Other Allowances :
(1) Cost of Living Allowances - Rs. 5,850 per month.
(2) Hardlying allowance  - Rs. 600 per month.
(3) Additional hard allowance  - Rs. 4,500 per month for those serving in operational areas.
(4) Special allowance I  - Rs. 2,400 per month  (Rs. 80 will be paid for each working day).
(5) Incentive allowances  - After completion of 05 years service (Rs. 250 to Rs. 850 per month).
(6) Special allowance II - 15% of consolidated salary.
(7) Ration allowance - Rs. 12,235.20 per month for living out Airmen/Airwomen (Free messing for living - in Airmen/
Airwomen).
(8) Accommodation.- Free for personnel living-in.
(9) Travelling.– Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (For Airmen/Airwomen/Wife/Husband and Children
as applicable). One set of railway warrants per month or the reimbursement of bus fare of living-in Airmen/
Airwomen.
(10) Disturbance allowance.– When proceeding on duty outside permanent station. (Rates vary with married/unmarried).
(11) Qualification pay .– For personnel who have qualified in special courses or possess qualifications, which are of
special value to the Service. (Up to maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
(12) Good Conduct Badge pay.–  Paid to personnel whose behaviour and general conduct are maintained at a high
standard. (Rs. 30 to Rs. 204 per month).
(13) Uniform upkeep allowances Rs. 170 per month.
(14) Re-engagement pay.– Personnel are entitled to Rs. 300 per month during the period of re-engagement.
(15) Medical facilities.– Provided through Air Force expense for Airmen/Airwomen and their married families.
(16) Free travel from residence to place of work in S. L. T. B. buses for living-out Airmen/Airwomen within a radius of
30 miles (48 km).
(17) Following Rent allowance are payable to married Airmen/Airwomen not in occupation of Government married
quarters Rs. 1,200 - Rs. 3,300 per month.
(18) Instructional pay  – (Rs. 425 to Rs. 510 per month).
(19) Other allowance.– (Separation and overseas etc.) will be paid as per Air Force Pay Code.
(20) Pensions/Gratuities are payable in terms of the Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981, as amended from
time to time. All Airmen is contributors to the Widows’ and Orphans’ Pensions (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rate of
contributions are as per Widows’ and Orphans’ Pensions (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.
8. Instructions to Applicants :-
(a) Applications should be in terms of the form specified below. All cages of the application should be filled with much
details as possible.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Departments/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should bear a
certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the following documents when summoned for interviews or
when called upon to do so :–
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth. (Certificate issued for the purpose of the Education Code will not be
accepted) ;
(2) Certificate in support of the educational qualifications required ;
(3) Certificate for Trade/Technical training and or experience (if any) obtained from a recognized institution will be
an added advantage ;
(4) Two recent certificates of character. One of these should be from the principal of the last school attended and
the other from the responsible person who has known the applicant for more than two years or from the present
employer (If employed) ;
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities and cadetting etc.
(d) Applications of candidates who fail to produce documents when required to do so will not be considered.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2012
858
9. Candidates considered suitable for the interview will be required to appear for an interview at interviews will be held at S ri
Lanka Air Force Trade Training School Ekala on 14th and 15th May, 2012 from 0900 Hrs to 1300 Hrs for Male candidates and 16th and
17th May, 2012 from 0900 Hrs to 1300 Hrs for Female candidates. The candidates considered suitable for the interview will be required
to appear for an interview at their own expense before an Air Force Recruiting Board.
10. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for interviews, he/she is to produce the National Identity Card. Candidates
who do not have the National Identity Card could produce some other form of the accepted identification. However, candidates wi ll not
be enlisted without the National Identity Card.
11. Candidates likely to be suitable following their interviews will be required to present themselves before an Air Force
Medical Board. The required number of candidates per trade will be selected according to merit order.
12. Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his/her testimonial. Any form of canvassing or
attempt to influence the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such candidates.
13. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if discovered after the selection.
14. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
H. D. ABEYWICKRAMA,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION FOR AIRMEN/AIRWOMEN IN THE SRI LANKA AIR FORCE
01. Full Name :––––––––––.
(According to National Identity Card)
02. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––.
03. Applied Trade :––––––––––.
04. Postal Address :––––––––––.
05. Permanent Address :––––––––––.
06. Nearest Police Station to Permanent Address :––––––––––.
07. District :––––––––––.
08. Electorate :––––––––––.
09. G. S. Division :––––––––––.
10. Telephone Number :––––––––––.
11. Date of Birth :––––––––––.
12. Married or Single :––––––––––.
13. Gender  :––––––––––.
14. Height : Feet :––––––––––. Inches :––––––––––.
15. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Year Index No. Subjects Passed Grading

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2012
859
16. G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Y ear Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
17. Any special qualifications for the post ( Eg.- Technical, Training and Experience etc.) :––––––––––.
18. Details of special achievements in sports :––––––––––.
19. Other achievements of note at school or with outside organizations :––––––––––.
20. If previously applied for the Armed Forces or Police give details :––––––––––.
21. Have you been convicted or bound over by a Civil or Military Court ? If so, give details :––––––––––.
22. Particulars of Testimonials :
Name Description Permanent Address
23. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I declare on my honour that the answers given to the above questions are to the best of my knowledge and belief are correct. I have
read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected as Airwomen in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force published in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
05–248
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.