

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'03
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 03.05.2018
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2069$35 - 2018 uehs ui 03 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2018'05'03
No. 2069/35 - THURSDAY,  MAY  03 2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Miscellaneous Departmental Notices
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A  - G   27560—08  (05/2018)
GENERAL  MANAGER’S  OFFICE
Sri Lanka Railway Employee Benevolent Association
CONSTITUTIONAL  REFORM
THE constituted proposals that were seconded at the 45th General Meeting with the object to add into the present
constitution of the Sri Lankan Railway Employee Benevolent Association, instituted under the ordinance bearing the
number 03 of 1965 and held at 9.00 am on Sunday 27th of August, 2017 at the Auditorium of Railway Head Quarters
Literary and Social Institute under the chieftainship of Mr. K. Dilip Priyalath, the Chairman of Railway Employee Benevolent
Association and with representation of the Railway General Manager, the Assistant Administrative Director Honourable
Mr. M. N. Weerasinghe and with the participation of electrical engineer Mr. E. M. Dharmasiri.
The Present Constitution (03) 06 a
Every member must pay a monthly membership fee of Rs. 500/-. An annual interest percentage of 10% will be calculated
with the available balance in the account annually and that amount of interest must be transferred to another account
maintained. It should be granted at the retirement by adding to the retirement gratuity.
The amended constitution (03) 06 a
Every member must pay a monthly membership fee of Rs. 500/-. An annual interest percentage of 10% will be calculated
for the amount saved in the account annually and at the end of the year that interest amount must be transferred to another
account and maintained. It should be granted at the retirement by adding to the retirement gratuity.
The Present Constitution (04) 02
The annual general meeting (AGM) of the association should be held by 31st of March annually at any venue in Colombo.
The suggestions intend to be submitted at the AGM should be submitted by every member in writing to the secretary/
treasurer three months prior to the meeting. For example, the members should take necessary actions to submit the

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'03
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 03.05.2018
2A
suggestions for the next year Annual General meeting which should be held by March 31st, by 31st December of the
current year, to the secretary/treasurer. All these suggestions should be entered in the annual meeting minute (log) book.
The steering committee has the authority to reject the suggestions that are contrary to the constitution.
The amended constitution (04) 02
The annual general meeting (AGM) of the association should be held by 31st of March at the end of every two years at any
venue in Colombo. The suggestions intend to submitted at the AGM should be submitted by every member in writing to
the secretary three months prior to the meeting. For example, the members should take necessary actions to submit the
suggestions for the next year General meeting which should be held by March 31st, by 31st December of the current year,
to the secretary/treasurer. All these suggestions should be entered in the meeting minute (log) book. The steering committee
has the authority to reject the suggestions that are contrary to the constitution.
The Present Constitution (04) 03
An annual report comprising, last year Annual General Meeting report, a balance sheet stating the current  assets and
liabilities as at September 30th of previous year, Accounts of previous year budget which ends on the 30th September,
Accountant’s inspection report, and the Administration report of the committee should be submitted at the Annual General
Meeting.
The amended constitution (04) 03
A report of two years comprising, the last year General Meeting report, a balance sheet stating the current assets and
liabilities as at September 30th of previous two years, Accounts of previous 2 year’s budget which ends on the 30th
September, Accountant’s inspection report and the Administration report of the committee should be submitted at the
Annual General Meeting.
The Present Constitution (04) 04
The secretary/treasurer should issue a notice 14 days prior to the Annual General Meeting and should publish a notice
respectively in Sinhalese, Tamil and English newspapers, with the date, time and venue of the meeting held. An agenda
along with printed reports must be distributed among members 14 days prior to the meeting. If any member does not get
an agenda and the report they can request from the secretary/treasurer and get it.
The amended constitution (04) 04
The secretary should issue a notice 14 days prior to the General Meeting and should publish a notice respectively in
Sinhalese, Tamil and English newspapers, with the date, time and venue of the meeting held. An agenda along with printed
reports must be distributed among members 14 days prior to the meeting. If any member does not get an agenda and the
report they can request from the Secretary and get it.
The Present constitution (04) 05
The quorum for the Annual General Meeting is seventy five persons
The amended constitution (04) 05
The quorum for the  General Meeting seventy five (75) persons.
The Present Constitution (04) 06
Nothing apart from what is specified in the agenda should be discussed or implemented at the Annual General Meeting

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'03
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 03.05.2018
3A
The amended constitution (04) 06
Nothing apart from what is specified in the agenda should be discussed or implemented at the General Meeting.
The Present constitution (04) 07
A copy of the Annual General Meeting report, a certified Accountant’s inspection report, and financial statement including
a balance sheet should be submitted to the General Manager Railways and to the permanent secretary not later than three
months from the day of the Annual General Meeting.
The amended constitution (04) 07
A copy of the General Meeting report, a certified Accountant’s inspection report, and financial statement including a
balance sheet should be submitted to the General Manager Railways and to the permanent secretary not later than three
months from the day of the General Meeting.
The Present constitution (04) 08
The report of the Annual General Meeting must be submitted at the next Annual General meeting and must obtain approval.
The amended constitution (04) 08
The report of the General Meeting must be submitted at the next  General meeting and must obtain approval.
The present constitution (10) responsibilities of Secretary/Treasurer
1. The secretary of the steering committee while assuming duty as the treasurer should take the responsibility of
calling meetings.
2. Must maintain the disciplinary rules of the staff who are members of the association in accordance to the
ordinary or special procedures of the steering committee.
3. Should bear responsibility of the administration of the association
4. Must prepare and submit the report of the association annually
5. Must maintain accounts of all the cash and funds of the association
6. Must pay all the expenditures, claims, loan advances authorized by the steering committee in accordance to the
constitution.
7. Must prepare accounts of the transactions on a monthly basis and submit at the steering committee meetings.
8. Must prepare and submit a budget document regarding the funds of the association on annually
The amended constitution (10) 01 - Responsibilities of Secretary
1. Must act as the secretary of the steering committee and take the responsibility of calling meetings
2. Must maintain the disciplinary rules of the staff who are members of the association in accordance to the
ordinary or special procedures and directions of the steering committee.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'03
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 03.05.2018
4A
3. Undertake the administration of the association as per the ordinance and the rules and regulation of the association
and based on the decisions and the procedures of the steering committee.
4. Must prepare annual report of the association every year and submit all the relevant reports during the General
Meetings.
The amended constitution (10) 02 - Responsibilities of Treasurer
1. Must maintain accounts of the cash and funds of the association
2. Must pay all the expenditures, claims, loan advances authorized by the steering committee in accordance to the
constitution.
3. Must prepare accounts of the transactions on a monthly basis and submit at the steering committee meetings.
4. Must prepare and submit a budget document regarding the funds of the association annually.
The present constituion (17) 02
The member is bound to submit a death certificate, documents relevant to it and any other documents requested by the
governing board when claiming for funeral funds. If a legitimate heir of the decased member applied for the funeral fund
immediately after the death, a 1/3 of the funds must be paid immediately at the recommendation of three members from
the working committee.
The amended constitution (17) 02
The member is bound to submit a death certificate, documents relevant to it and any other documents requested by the
governing board when claiming for the amount awarded at the funeral. If a legitimate heir of the decased applies for the
amount awarded at the funeral immediately after the death of a member, or a dependent of the member, a 1/2 of the amount
at  must be paid immediately at the recommendation of three members from the Excecutive Committee.
The present constitution (17) 04
The funeral fund, granted for the member is Rs. 40,000/-. Rs. 30,000 is granted at the demise of the spouse of the
member. Rs. 25,000/- is granted for the demise of the mother/father of the member and the demise of the mother/father
of the member's spouse. A funeral allowane of Rs. 25,000/- is paid for the death of member's unmarried child. Any
member can receive the funeral allowance only for maximum of three times. If any member has not claimed any funeral
allowance until he/she retires he/she should be paid his/her deposit to the association adding the total amount of the
funeral fund that he/she entitled at the retirement. Member who gets a membership at the age between 45-50 is entitled to
a funeral fund of Rs. 30,000/-, Rs. 20,000/- is granted at the demise of his/her spouse, and the dependent are  entitiled to
Rs. 15,000/-
The amended constitution (17) 04
The amount of aid awarded for the member at a funeral is Rs. 50,000/-, Rs. 30,000/- is awarded at the demise of the
spouse of the member, Rs. 25,000/- is awarded for the demise of the mother/father of the member and demise of the
mother/father of member's spouse. A sum of Rs. 25,000/- as an amount of aid at a funeral is paid for the death of member's
unmarried child. A member can claim the maximum amount awarded at funeral any number of times without any restrictions
as long as she/he is a member. If any member has not claimed any amount until he/she retires he/she should be paid his/her
deposit to the association adding the total amount of the entitled funeral aid and while being a member. The member, while
been in membership can claim a lesser amount that the entitiled amount at the demise of a dependent. If the member had
claimed a lesser amount prior to the reirement, he/she claim the balance funeral aid up to the entitled amunt at the
retirement. Member who gets a membership at the age between 45-50 is entitled to an amount of Rs. 40,000/- at the
demise of his/her spouse, Rs. 20,000/- is awarded, and the dependents are entitled to a benefit of Rs. 15,000/-

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'03
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 03.05.2018
5A
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
The present constitution (23) awards 05
It should be paid an allowance of Rs. 200/- per day for every executive member who attends to a meeting of the steering
committee.
The amended constitution (23) awards 05
It should be paid an allowance of Rs. 500/- per day for every executive member who attends to a meeting of the steering
committee.
The present constitution (23) awards 06
Every representative that participate in the steering committee meetings should be paid Rs. 200/- per day
The amended constitution (23) awards 06
Every Executive representative that participate in the steering committee meetings should be paid Rs. 500/- per day
S. M. A
BEYWICKRAMA,
General Manager - Railways.
05- 499