

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2012
2095
2095
wxl 1"781 - 2012 Tlaf;dan¾ 19 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'10'19
No. 1,781 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 19, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2098
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2101
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 09th  November, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th
October, 2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
23rd June, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part III of the Gazette No. 1,780 of 12.10.2012 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2012
2096
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2012
2097
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2012
2098
Posts – Vacant
SRI  LANKA  REGULAR  AIR  FORCE
Airmen Vacancies
V ACANCIES exist Aeronautical Engineering Trades in the Regular Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force for Airmen in the trades are given
below :-
1. (a) Trades and Educational Qualifications Required :–
(a) Air Frame Mechanic
(b) Aero Engine Mechanic
(c) Aero Electrical & Instrument Mechanic
(d) Safety Equipment Assistant
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English languages, Mathematics and
Science. A credit pass for Mathematics/Science is essential.
(b) Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfil the following General Conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular
Air Force  :–
(a) Nationality : Must be a Citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Age : Not less than 18 years and not more than 23 years as at 15th December, 2012 ;
(c) Height : 5 feet 5 inches and above ;
(d) Weight : 19<BMI<25
BMI = 
Weight (kg) ;
   Height2 (m)
(e) Vision Colour Standard : CP 2
(f) Visual Acuity : 6/6 each eye (without spectacles);
(g) Civil Status :  Candidates must be unmarried. (Airmen are not allowed to marry until the completion of two years
from the date of enlistment and until one year after the completion of the Basic Trade Training Course and which ever
is later).
2. Candidates who do not possess the required educational qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 01 "a" and "b"
will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview the height, weight  and vision will be measured. Candidates whose height, weight and
vision are below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification and who have no exceptional skills will not be interviewed. Any
candidate who may have a special skill or value to the service may at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered even
though he may not have the requisite height provided he possess the requisite academic and professional qualifications.
3. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
4. Conditions of Service :–
(a) Airmen will be governed by the Air Force Act and other Air Force Regulations and Orders with effect from the date
of enlistment.
(b) Selected candidates will be trained in combat and in the selected trades accordingly. They will be required to perform
combat duties and any type of duty, day and night, even under very difficult conditions in any part of Sri Lanka or
abroad.
5. Terms of Engagement.– Selected candidates will be enlisted to the third class of the rank of Aircraftsman in the Regular Air
Force and shall be required to serve for 12 years in which 08 years will have to be served continuously whilst serving a furthe r 04 years
in the Regular Air Force (Reserve) when called to do so. Opportunities exist for suitable Airmen to extend for further service on
completion of eight years of service on the discretion of the Commander of the Sri Lanka Air Force.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2012
2099
6. Official Language Requirements.– The selected candidates must confirm to the Official Language Policy of the Government
of Sri Lanka.
7. Pay and Allowances :
(a) Pay Rate.– The scale of consolidated pay applicable to Airmen shall be as follows :–
Aircraftman - Rs. 168,000 - 6 x 1,440 - 19 x 1,800 - Rs. 210,840 per annum.
Leading Aircraftman - Rs. 170,880 - 4 x 1,440 - 19 x 1,800 - Rs. 210,840 per annum.
Corporal - Rs. 175,200 - 1 x 1,440 - 10 x 1,800 - 9 x 2,520 -Rs. 217,320 per annum.
Sergeant - Rs. 180,240 - 3 x 1,800 - 9 x 2,520 - 3 x 3,480 - Rs. 218,760 per annum.
Flight Sergeant - Rs. 183,840 - 1 x 1,800 - 9 x 2,520 - 3 x 3,480 - Rs. 218,760 per annum.
Warrant Officer - Rs. 190,680 - 7 x 2,520 - 14 x 3,480 - Rs. 257,040 per annum.
Master Warant Officer - Rs. 211,800 - 13 x 3,480 - Rs. 257,040 per annum.
Pay and allowances will be paid according to the consolidated pay scale applicable to Airmen. Increments in promotions will
be based in consideration to the service period, good conduct and trade efficiency and will be placed in the appropriate pay sc ale.
(b) Other Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowance - Rs. 5,850 per month.
(2) Hardlying allowance - Rs. 600 per month.
(3) Additional hard allowance - Rs. 4,500 per month for those serving in operational areas.
(4) Special allowance -I - Rs. 2,400 per month  (Rs. 80 will be paid for each working day).
(5) Special allowance - II- 15% of consolidated salary.
(6) Incentive allowances - After completion of 05 years service (Rs. 250 to Rs. 850 per month).
(7) Ration allowance - Rs. 12,235.20 per month for living out Airmen. (Free messing for living - in Airmen).
(8) Accommodation - Free for personnel living-in.
(9) Travelling – Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (For Airmen/wife and children as applicable). One set
of railway warrants per month or the reimbursement of bus fare of living-in Airmen.
(10) Disturbance allowance– When proceeding on duty outside permanent station. (Rates vary with married/unmarried).
(11) Qualification pay – For personnel who have qualified in special courses or possess qualifications, which are of
special value to the Service. (Up to maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
(12) Good Conduct Badge pay  – Paid to personnel whose behaviour and general conduct are maintained at a high
standard. (Rs. 30 to Rs. 204 per month).
(13) Uniform upkeep allowances - Rs. 170 per month.
(14) Re-engagement pay – Personnel are entitled to Rs. 300 per month during the period of re-engagement.
(15) Medical facilities – Provided through Air Force expense for Airmen and their married families.
(16) Free travel from residence to place of work in S. L. T. B. buses for living-out Airmen within a radius of 30 miles
(48 km).
(17) Following Rent allowances are payable to married Airmen not in occupation of Government married quarters
Rs. 1,200 - Rs. 3,300 per month.
(18) Instructional pay - (Rs. 425 to Rs. 510 per month).
(19) Other allowance – (Separation and overseas etc.) will be paid as per Air Force Pay Code.
(20) Pensions/Gratuities are payable in terms of the Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981, as amended from
time to time. All Airmen are contributors to the Widows' and Orphans' Pensions (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rate of
contributions is as per Widows' and Orphans' Pensions (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2012
2100
08. Instructions to Applicants :-
(a) Applications should be submitted *in terms of the form specified below. All cages of the application should be
filled with much details as possible. Applications should be sent by registered post addressed to “Chief Recruiting
Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Trade Training School, Ekala, Kotugoda” so as to reach there not later than 12.00 noon
on 22nd October, 2012. The envelope enclosing the application should be marked “Application for Engineering
Trades Regular Airmen” on the top left corner. Applications received at Sri Lanka Air Force, Trade Training School,
Ekala, Kotugoda after closing date and time and not in accordance with the requirements of this notification and not
in registered post will not be considered.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Departments/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should bear a
certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the following documents when summoned for interviews or
when called upon to do so :–
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth. (Certificate issued for the purpose of the Education Code will not be
accepted).
(2) Certificate in support of the educational qualifications required.
(3) Certificate for Trade/Technical training and or experience (if any) obtained from a recognized institution will be
an added advantage.
(4) Two recent certificates of character. One of these should be from the principal of the last school attended and
the other from the responsible person who has the know of the applicant for more than two years or from the
present employer (If employed).
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities and cadetting etc.
(d) Applications of candidates who fail to produce documents when required to do so will not be considered.
09. Candidates considered suitable for the interview will be required to appear for an interview at their own expense before an
Air Force Recruiting Board. Interviews will be held at Sri Lanka Air Force Trade Training School, Ekala. Such candidates will be informed
individually of the date, time and place.
10. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for interviews, he is to produce the National Identity Card. Candidates who
do not have the National Identity Card could produce some other form of the accepted identification. However, no candidates wil l be
enlisted without the National Identity Card.
11. Candidates likely to be suitable following their interviews will be required to present themselves before an Air Force
Medical Board. The required number of candidates per trade will be selected according to merit order.
12. Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his testimonial. Any form of canvassing or attempt
to influence the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such candidates.
13. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if discovered after the selection.
14. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
H. D. A
BEYWICKRAMA,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2012
2101
APPLICATION FOR AIRMAN IN
THE SRI LANKA AIR FORCE
01. Full Name :––––––––––.
(According to National Identity Card)
02. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––.
03. Applied Trade :––––––––––.
04. Postal Address :––––––––––.
05. Permanent Address :––––––––––.
06. Nearest Police Station to Permanent Address :––––––––––.
07. District :––––––––––.
08. Electorate :––––––––––.
09. G . S. Division :––––––––––.
10. Telephone Number :––––––––––.
11. Date of Birth :––––––––––.
12. Married or Single :––––––––––.
13. Gender :––––––––––.
14. Height : Feet :––––––––––., Inches :––––––––––.
15. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Y ear Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
16. G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Y ear Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
17. Any special qualifications for the post :––––––––––.
(Eg.- Technical, Training and Experience etc.)
18. Details of special achievements in sports :––––––––––.
19. Other achievements of note at school or with outside
organizations :––––––––––.
20. If previously applied for the Armed Forces or Police give
details :––––––––––.
21. Have you been convicted or bound over by a Civil or Military
Court ? If so, give details :––––––––––.
22. Particulars of Testimonials :
Name Description Permanent Address
23. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I declare on my honour that the answers given to the above
questions are to the best of my knowledge and belief are correct.
I have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted
and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates
who are selected as Airmen in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force
published in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
10–819
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE
Posts of stenographer (Sinhala/Tamil/English) in the
Labour Tribunals
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka with
the undermentioned qualifications for recruitment to the posts of
Stenographer (Sinhala/Tamil/English) in the Offices of the Labour
Tribunals of the Ministry of Justice.
01. Educational Qualifications :
(a) Should have passed six (06) subjects at the General
Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination
in one sitting with at least four credits (04) including
Mathematics and Sinhala/Tamil/English Languages.
(b) Should have passed at least one (01) subject (excluding
General Common Test) at the General Certificate of
Education (Advanced Level) Examination.
02. Professional Qualifications :-
Should have followed a course in Stenography for not less
than six (06) months in a recognized institute ; or
Should have obtained a credit pass for typewriting and
shorthand at the General Certificate of Education
(Ordinary Level) Examination.
03. Physical Fitness :-
1. Should be of sound mental and physical health to serve
in any part of the island ;

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2012
2102
2. Should be of sound physical fitness to perform the
duties in the post.
04. Other :-
1. Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
2. Should bear an excellent moral character ;
3. Should attach the photocopies of the certificates with
the application.
05. Age limit.– Applicant should not be less than 18 years of age
and not more than 30 years of age as at the closing date of
application.
06. Salary Scale.– MN 1-2006A. Monthly Salary Rs. 13,120 -
10 x145 - 11x 170 - 10x 240 - 10x 320 - Rs. 22,040.
07. Method of Recruitment. – The qualified applicants will be
recruited in order of merit at the practical test and the structural
interview conducted by the Secretary to the Ministry of Justice or
any other institute authorized by the Secretary to the Ministry of
Justice. The appointments will be made on the number of existing
vacancies.
08. Terms of Engagement :-
(a) This post is permanent and pensionable. Contribution
to the Widows
’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme/Widowers’
and Orphans’ Pension Scheme should be made.
(b) The Efficiency Bar Examinations for this post will be
conducted twice a year by the Secretary to the Ministry
of Justice.
09. The application should be prepared as per the specimen
form setout at the end of this notification. The duly completed
application should be sent under Registered cover to the following
address on or before 02.11.2012. The words 
“Post of Stenographer
(Sinhala/Tamil/English) in the Labour Tribunals” should be written
on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing the application.
The applicants already in the Public Service/Provincial Public
Service should send in their applications through the Head of the
Department/Institution he/she is attached to.
10. Examination fee .– Every applicant should pay Rs. 300 as
examination fee to the credit of the Account No. 176-1001-9-9025-
184, Mid City Branch of the People’s Bank in favour of the
Secretary to the Ministry of Justice. The receipt received for the
payment should be affixed to the application. The examination fee
is not refundable.
11. The applications should be completed in all respects.
Applications received after the closing date will be rejected. No
allegation that an application and attached documents have been
lost or delayed in the post can be considered.
12. If any particulars furnished in the application are found to
be false or incorrect he/she is liable to be disqualified before selection
and to be dismissed if the inaccuracy is discovered after the
appointment.
13. The authority to determine any matter not provided for in
this notice is vested in the Secretary to the Ministry of Justice.
K
AMALINI DE SILV A,
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice.
Superior Courts Complex,
Colombo 12.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
MINISTRY OF JUSTICE
POST OF STENOGRAPHER (SINHALA/TAMIL/ENGLISH) IN THE LABOUR
TRIBUNALS
No. :..............................
(For office use only)
01. Name in full :–––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil/English)
02. Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil/English)
03. Private Address (in Sinhala/Tamil/English) :–––––––––––.
04. Official Address :–––––––––––.
05. Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
06. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
07. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
08. Age as at 30.12.2012 :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :–––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
09. Sex :–––––––––––.
10. Nationality :–––––––––––.
11. Medium of Language in which you received education :
–––––––––––.
12. Whether you are applying for the post of stenographer :
–––––––––––.
(Sinhala or Tamil or English)
13. Educational Qualifications :-
G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––.  Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2012
2103
G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––.  Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
14. Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––.
15. Experience :–––––––––––.
16. Other Qualifications :–––––––––––.
17. I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am aware that if any
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect I
am liable to be disqualified before selection and to be dismissed
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
without any compensation if the inaccuracy is discovered after
appointment.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF DEP ARTMENT
The application of Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... serving in
this Department/Institution is attached herewith. I inform that if
this officer is selected for the post of Stenographer, he/she can/
cannot be released from service.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Official Seal.
Date :–––––––––––.
10–777