

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 279]
————————
Presented by Hon. M. S. Thowfeek, M. P.
for Trincomalee District on 19th December, 2013
(Published in the Gazette on December 09, 2013)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5. 00
2-2d
2-
RIDHWANIYYAH ARABIC COLLEGE
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Ridhwaniyyah Arabic College

<!-- page 2 -->

1Ridhwaniyyah Arabic College (Incorporation)
2—PL 007820—75 (12/2013)
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation
of the
Ridhwaniyyah
Arabic
College
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE RIDHWANIYYAH ARABIC COLLEGE
WHEREAS a college known as “ Ridhwaniyyah Arabic
College” has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka at No. 84,
Kew Road, Colombo - 02 for the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting all objects and matters
connected with the said college, according to the rules
agreed to by the Board of Management of the College:
AND WHEREAS the said college has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was formed and has applied to be incorporated and
it will be for the public advantage to grant such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the 
Ridhwaniyyah Arabic
College (Incorporation) Act, No.    2013.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Ridhwaniyyah Arabic College (hereinafter referred to as the
“College”) and shall hereafter be admitted  as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
with perpetual succession under the name and style of  “
the
Ridhwaniyyah Arabic College ” (hereinafter referred to as
the “Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued in
all courts, with full power and authority to have and use a
common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to produce Islamic Theologists to lead the
community under the Islamic law of “Shariaa”;
General
objects of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Ridhwaniyyah Arabic College (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to protect Islam;
(c) to produce “Hafidhs” who have learnt the Holy
Quran by heart;
(d) to promote and foster unity within the Islamic
community and find solutions of problems of such
community;
(e) to promote the policies of “Sunnath Wal Jamaath”
within the Islamic community;
(f) Learning and Teaching Islam in Arabic Language
according to Al Quran and  AL Hadhees;
(g) Teaching Sinhala, Tamil, English and Urdu
Language;
(h) Providing opportunity to students study Islam based
on the syllabus approved by the Ministry of
Education and guiding the students to G.C.E.
Ordinary Level and G.C.E. Advanced Level
Examinations;
(i) Organizing and Conducting a separate unit for the
Social Welfare, Economic Development and
Educational Improvement of Muslim Ladies;
(j) to promote and foster the policies of the “Sunnath
Wal Jamaath” based on holy propagation of
“Thableekh” with the “Fikh” (concepts of the
School of Thought) laws of the “Shafiee Madhhab”
and the belief in “Al Ashariya”; and
(k) to do all such acts and things as are in the opinion
of the Corporation connected to any of the above
and beneficial to the growth of the College.
4. (1) The management, control and administrations of
the Corporation shall subject to the other provisions of this
Act be administered by a Board of Management consisting
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Ridhwaniyyah Arabic College (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
of fifteen members elected in accordance with the rules of
the Corporation from among persons who shall be leaders in
the community and theologians, including the President,
two Vice Presidents, two Joint Secretaries, the Treasurer, the
Assistant Treasurer and Eight Committee Members. One of
the Joint Secretaries shall be a teacher in the College.
(2) The first Board of the Management of the Corporation
shall be Board of Management of the College holding office
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
and which shall hold office until a new  Board of Management
is elected in accordance with the rules of the Corporation.
(3) The office bearers of the Corporation shall hold office
for a term of one year and be eligible for re-election.
5. A committee member shall:—
(a) be a person who lives within the bounds of the
Islamic law of “Shariaa”;
(b) be a person of good character and will be respected
by the Islamic Community; and
(c) be a person who respects the law of “Shariaa” and
the Theologians.
6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, as are necessary or desirable
for the promotion of furtherance of the objects of the
Corporation or any one of them, including the power to
open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow or raise
any money with or without security,to receive or collect
grants and donations, to invest its funds and to engage,
employ and dismiss officers and servants required for the
carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
General
powers of the
Corporation.
Qualifications
of the
committee
members.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Ridhwaniyyah Arabic College (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time
to time at any general meeting and by the vote of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law for all or any of the following matters:—
(a) the admission, resignation and expulsion of
members of the Corporation;
(b) election of office bearers;
(c) power, duties and functions of the Board of
Management and the office-bearers of the
Corporation;
(d) the conduct of meetings of the Board of
Management and the procedures to be followed at
such meetings and the quorum of such meetings;
(e) appointment of employees of the Corporation and
their duties and functions, and the code of conduct
to be observed by such employees;
(f) courses of students to be conducted, syllabuses of
studies, examinations and award of certificates, in
so far as such rules do not conflict with the national
or provincial education policy;
(g) the administrations and management of the property
of the Corporation and the custody of its funds; and
(h) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the attainment of its objects.
(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
(3) Any rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded in the manner as a rule may be
made under subsection (1).
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Ridhwaniyyah Arabic College (Incorporation)
8. All debts and liabilities of the College existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due, subscriptions and contributions payable to the
College on that day, shall be paid to the Corporation for the
purpose of this Act.
9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the persons
duly authorized by the Board, who shall sign their names to
the instrument in token of their presence, and such signing
shall be independent of the  signing of any person as a witness.
10. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
(4) In this section “qualified auditor ” means —
(a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such  Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
11. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property,  movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of  any purchase,
subscription, gift, grant, testamentary disposition or
Seal of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable or
immovable.
Accounts of
the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Ridhwaniyyah Arabic College (Incorporation)
otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the
Corporation for the purpose of this Act, and subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, with full
power  to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose
of the same.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not
be distributed among the members of the Corporation, but
shall be given or transferred to some other institution or
institutions having objects similar to those of the
Corporation and which is or are by rules prohibited from
distributing any income or property among its members.
13. Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or any other person.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
15
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Ridhwaniyyah Arabic College (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .