

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Part II of May 18, 2012
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 21. 05. 2012)
INSTITUTE OF MEDICINA ALTERNATIVA
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Institute of Medicina Alternativa
To be presented in Parliament by Hon.Sunil Hadunnetti,
M. P. for Colombo District
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5.
Price : Rs. 6. 00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
(Private Member’ s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

1 Medicina Alternativa Institute
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE MEDICINA ALTERNATIVA INSTITUTE
WHEREAS a Medical Institute called as “ Medicina
Alternativa” has heretofore been established for the purpose
of effectually carrying out and transacting all the objects
and matters connected with the said Institute according to
the rules agreed to by its members:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the 
Medicina Alternativa
Institute (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2012.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, the members of the Medicina Alternativa Institute who
shall be appointed by votes with reference to the Constitution
of this institute 
(hereinafter referred to as “Institute”) shall
be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the
“Corporation”) with perpetual succession under the name
and style of the “
Medicina Alternativa Institute” and by that
name may sue and be sued in all Courts, with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and alter the same
at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be:
(a) to promote the alternative medical science in the
country and inforeign countries and to provide the
education free of charge;
(b) to treat the poor and needy patients through the
methods of altanative medical free of charge;
(c) to provide facilities to uplift the educational
activites of poor children;
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation
of Medicina
Alternativa
Institute.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

 Medicina Alternativa Institute
(Incorporation)
2
5
10
15
20
25
(d) donation of scholarships to local and foreign
students to teach them expanded stream or subjects
in optional Medicine Science and other allied
fields;
(e) taking pioneering steps to share knowledge in
Coloaboration and Joining with Local and Foreign
Academics of Education and entering into such
agreements;
(f) procuring accomodation and facilites to Local and
Foreign students to hold and conduct experiments
and researches in the field of optional field of
Medicine and other educational fields;
(g) to act mutually with the Ministry of Indigenous
Medicine, Ayurvedic Department and other
Government and Government Affiliated Institutes
in order to achieve the objects of the Corporation;
(h) to act in corporation with other relevant institutes
engaged in social, economical, educational and
cultural activities;
(i) to implement printed and other media activities
and programmes in order to promote the objectives
of the Corporation;
(j) to do all such other functions and things which are
necessary, conducive or incidental to the attainment
of all or any of the objects of the Corporation.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to open,
maintain and close bank accounts and to borrow money or
gain money with or without security and to accept donations
from local and foreign sources and collect the same and to
General
powers of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3 Medicina Alternativa Institute
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
invest th funds of the Corporation, and to acquire and
purchase property, and to construct buildings in a land
assigned to the Corporation or acquired by the Corporation
or held by the Corporation and including the power to employ
the officers and servants necessary to perform  the objectives
of the Corporation and to dismiss the said officers and
servants, and shall have the power to do, perform and execute
all such acts and matters as are necessary or desirable for the
promotion or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) Management of the affairs of the Corporation
shall, subject to the rules of the time being in force, be
administered by  an Executive Committee appointed in
accordance with the rules of the Corporation.
(2) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time at any general meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority not less than two-thirds (2/3) of the members present
and voting to make rules not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act or any other written law and which are necessary
for the management of the affairs of the Corporation and
accomplishment of the objects of the Corporation. The said
rules may be altered, amended, repealed or added thereto in
the like manner and in the same meetings of the Corporation.
(3) The first Executive Committee of the Corporation
shall consist of the members held the posts in this institute
prior to the incorporation of this institute.
(4) The rules of the institute in force on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this
Act, shall in so far as they are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, be deemed to
be the rules of the Corporation.
(5) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.
Administration
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

 Medicina Alternativa Institute
(Incorporation)
4
5
10
15
20
25
30
6. (1) All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation, hereby
constituted and all debts due to and subscriptions and
contributions payable to the Institute on that day shall be
paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
(2) No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation,
be liable to make any contribution exceeding the amount of
lifetime membership fees of annual membership fees.
7. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time
being, of the Corporation to mortgage,  sell, lease, exchange
or otherwise dispose of the same.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gift,
bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees  or grants
for and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited to
the credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as the
Corporation shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund all sums of moneys
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
(3) The moneys and property of the Corporation, however
derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the
objects setforth herein.
9. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of all the moneys received and expended by the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
Audit.
Assests and
liabilities of
the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5 Medicina Alternativa Institute
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year, and the correctness
of income and expenditure, account and balance sheet
certified by an auditor or auditors appointed by the
Corporation.
10. The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody
of the Secretary and shall not be affixed to any instrument
whatsoever except in the presence of the President and
Secretary or such other person duly authorized by the
Corporation, both of whom shall sign their names on the
instrument in token of their presence, and such signing shall
be independent of the  signing of any person as a witness.
11. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or any body politic or
corporate, or of any other persons, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by from or under
them.
12. If upon dissolution of the Corporation there remains
after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, any property
whatsoever, such property, shall not be distributed among
the members of the Corporation but shall be given or
transferred to some other association or associations having
objects, similar to the objects of the Coporation, and which
is, or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing
any income or profit among its or their members. Such
association or associations shall be  determined by the
members of the Corporation at or immediately before the
time of dissolution of the Corporation.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Savings of
the rights of
the Republic
and others.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
25
30

<!-- page 7 -->

 Medicina Alternativa Institute
(Incorporation)
6
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .