

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'03'31
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.03.2022
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2273$72 – 2022 ud¾;= 31 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2022'03'31
No. 2273/72 – THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2022
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G 36530 – 23 (2022/03)
My No.: CI/139.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Singer (Sri Lanka) PLC (Piliyandala Factory), No.20, Gonamaditta 
Road, Piliyandala of the one part and the Inter Company Employees Union, No. 259/9, Sethsiri Mawatha, Koswatta, 
Thalangama of the other part on 11th November 2020 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
 B. K. P
RABATH CHANDRAKEERTHI,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
21st March, 2022.
Collective Agreement No. 43 of 2020
  COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT
This agreement is entered into between Singer (Sri Lanka) PLC, a Company duly registered in Sri Lanka having its registered 
ofﬁ ce at No. 20, Gonamaditta Road, Piliyandala (hereinafter referred to as “the Employer” and the Inter Company Employees 
Union a Trade union duly registered in Sri Lanka having its registered ofﬁ ce at 259/9, Sethsiri Mawatha, Koswatta, Thalangama 
(hereinafter referred to as “the Union”).


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'03'31
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.03.2022
 2A
  Whereas the Union by its letter dated 28 th January 2020 made requests for revision of terms and conditions of its members 
employed in the Manual category at the Piliyandala Factory Complex of the Employer and the parties after negotiations have 
agreed on the following terms of settlement in respect of the matters set out in the said letter of the union.
 (i)  This agreement shall cover and bind the employer, the union and its members employed in manual categories 
on monthly contracts of employment by the Employer in the Piliyandala Factory Complex.
 (ii)  Futher to the productivity norms agreed by the Employer and the branch union in terms of the productivity       
agreement signed between the said Employer and the branch union, the employer agrees to revise the salaries 
of employees covered and bound by this agreement by 12.5% with a minimum increase of Rs. 4,125/= to 
be paid in the following manner;
  (a)  80% of the total increase in the ﬁ rst year with effect from 19
th October 2020.
  (b)  20% of the total increase in the second year with effect from 19 th October 2021.
 (iii) The union and the employees hereby agree that they shall not resort to any form of trade union action in respect 
of the matters covered by this agreement. Provided however that in the case of any industrial dispute with regard 
to matters not covered by the agreement the employer and the union agree to the following disputes settlement 
procedure.
  (a) Whenever there is a dispute, a written statement of the dispute should be forwarded by the Union's branch 
committee to the Employer and at least two weeks time given for the Employer to resolve the dispute.
  (b) If no satisfactory solution is found, the matter should be referred to the parent union and to the Employers' 
Federation of Ceylon (EFC), for the purpose of attempting to resolve the dispute.
  (c) If after discussion the matter cannot be resolved by the intervention of the EFC and the parent union, the 
conciliatory proceedings under the Industrial Dispute act should be followed.
  (d) If after conciliation had failed in the labour Department, the union wishes to take trade union action, written 
notice should be given of not less than 14 days to the Employer and to the EFC.
 (iv) This agreement shall take effect from 19
th October 2020 and may be terminated by either party with one month's 
written notice to the other provided however, that neither party shall give such notice before 18th September 2022 
and the agreement shall not stand terminated until 18th October 2022.
 (v) The Employer agrees to reimburse up to a maximum of Rs. 38,000/= per annum, per employee in respect 
of out-door medical expenses. In respect of all other matters pertaining to medical beneﬁ ts, the present medical 
scheme will be applicable.
In witness hereof parties have hereunto set their hands on this Eleventh day of November Two Thousand and Twenty.
EOG 03-1090


<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'03'31
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.03.2022
 3A
My No.: CI/1792.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Piramal Glass Ceylon PLC, No.148, Maligawa Road, Borupana, 
Ratmalana of the one part and the Inter Company Employees Union, No. 259/9, Sethsiri Mawatha, Koswatta, Thalangama 
of the other part on 9th September 2020 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 
131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
 B. K. P
RABATH CHANDRAKEERTHI,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
21st March, 2022.
Collective Agreement No. 40 of 2020
  COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT - 2019
BETWEEN
PIRAMAL GLASS CEYLON PLC
&
INTER COMPANY EMPLOYEES UNION
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 2019
This Agreement entered into by and between "Piramal Glass Ceylon PLC "(PQ 190) , a company duly incorporated in Sri 
Lanka  and having its registered of ﬁ ce at No. 148, Maligawa Road Borupana, Ratmalana (hereinafter referred to as the 
"Employer" ) and " Inter Company Employees Union" a Trade Union duly registered in Sri Lanka, having its registered 
ofﬁ ce at No: 259/9, Sethsiri Mawatha. Koswatta, Thalangama. (hereinafter referred to as "the Union")
WITNESSETH and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows: 
TITLE : The Collective Agreement shall be known and referred to as the Piramal Glass Ceylon PLC Collective Agreement 
2019.
 1.     PARTIES COVERED AND BOUND BY THE AGREEMENT
 This Agreement shall cover and bind the Employer, the Union and all Permanent employees who are members of the 
Union and are in employment as at the date of signing of this Agreement. 
 2. DATE OF OPERATION AND DURATION 
 This agreement shall be effective from 1 st April, Two Thousand Nineteen (01.04.2019) and shall thereafter continue to 
be in force unless it is determined by either party giving one month's notice, in writing , to the other provided however that 
neither party hereto shall give such notice to the other party prior to the 28 th  of February , 2022. 
 3. REPUDIATION OF PREVIOUS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT  
 This Agreement shall supersede and replace the provisions of the previous Collective Agreements signed between the 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'03'31
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.03.2022
 4A
parties and all such previous Collective Agreements shall stand terminated with effect from the date on which this Collective  
Agreement comes into force.
 4. SALARIES
The employer agrees to grant the following increases of salaries to all permanent employees covered and bound by this 
Agreement, on the following basis during the pendency of this Agreement, The Following revision shall be subject to the 
relevant employees being in service as at the date signing of this agreement.
 (i) Period from 01 
st April 2019 to 31 st  March 2020 (1 st Year )   
      
       (a)  With effect from 01 st April 2019, Rs. 3500 /= or an amount equivalent to 11%, of the basic salary of an employee
   as at 1 st  Aprill, 2019 whichever is higher, will be added to the basic salary. 
     (b)  Thereafter, a further sum of Rs. 335 /= being the rupee value of 5 points of the Colombo Consumer Price Index
   (CCPI ) calculated at the rate of Rs. 67 /= per point, will be added to the basic salary of each employee covered and 
   bound by this agreement with effect from 01 st April 2019.
 (c)  To pay a sum of Rs. 124,000 /= in lieu of NRCOLG (Non-Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity) for the period referred 
   to above and out of the said total amount, an amount, of Rs. 6,000 /= shall be paid as an advance, monthly (for a
   period of twelve months) and Rs. 72,000 /= paid as an advance will be deducted from the total amount, and the
   remaining amount of Rs. 52,000/= will be paid during the month of April 2020. 
   payment in lieu of NRCOLG - For the ﬁ rst year, the parties agreed that Rs.120,000 has already been paid (including  
   the said Rs. 6,000 per month paid as an advance payment) since 1 st of April 2019 up to 31 st March 2020.
   parties agree that the payments made in terms of 4 (i) (c) above, will not attract EPF/ ETF or any other statutory
   or consequential bene ﬁ ts . 
   The arrears as per 4(i) above will be paid subject to the relevant deductions. 
   The arrears payable as per 4(i) a) and b) will attract EPF, ETF, OT,Attendance Allowance and Holiday pay only.
 (ii) Period from 01st April 2020 to 31st March 2021 (2nd year)
  
  The salary increases for the said period indicated herein would be affcted with effect from 1 st June 2020. 
  
 (a)  With effect from 01 st June 2020, Rs. 3,500 /= or an amount equivalent to 8%, of
    the basic salary of an employee as at 1st April, 2019 (for the basic salary before 1 st year
     increase), whichever is higher, will be added to the basic salary.
 (b)    Thereafter, a further sum of Rs. 335/= being the rupee value of 5 points of the Colombo Consumer Price Index
   (CCPI) calculated at the rate of Rs. 67/= per point, will be added to the basic salary of each employee covered and
   bound by this agreement with effect from 01 st June 2020.
 (c)    To pay a sum of Rs. 128,000 /= in lieu of NRCOLG ( Non - Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity ) for the period  
   referred to above and out of the said total amount, an amount of Rs. 6,000/= shall be paid as an advance, monthly  
   ( for a period of twelve months) and Rs.72,000/= paid as advance will be deducted from the total amount, and the  
   remainig amount of Rs. 56,000/= will be paid during the month of Aprill 2021. 
   parties agree that the said Rs. 6,000/= per month payment in terms of 4 (ii) (c) has already been paid as a monthly  
   advance, up to the date of signing this agreement. 
   parties agree that the payments made in terms of 4(ii) (c) above, will not attract EPF/ ETF or any other statutory  
   or consequential bene ﬁ ts . 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'03'31
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.03.2022
 5A
     The arrears as per 4(ii) above will be paid subject to the relevant  deductions. 
      The arrears payable from 1 st june 2020 till the date of signing this agreement as per 4(ii) a) and b) will attract EPF,
   ETF, OT  Attendance Allowance and Holiday pay only. 
 (iii)  Period from 01 st April 2021 to 31 st March 2022 (3 rd Year) 
 (a)    With effect from 01 st April 2021, Rs. 3500/= or an amount equivalent to 8%, of the basic salary of an employee
   as at 1 st April, 2019  (for the basic salary before 1 st Year increase), whichever is higher , will be added to the basic 
      salary. 
 (b)    Thereafter , further sum of Rs. 335/= being the rupee value of 5 points of the Colombo Consumer Price Index
    (CCPI) calculated at the rate of Rs. 67/= per point, will be added to the basic salary of each employee covered and
   bound by this agrement with effect from 01 st April 2021.
 (c)       To pay a sum of Rs. 132,000/= in lieu of NRCOLG (Non Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity) for the peroid referred 
                to above and from  
      the said total amount, an amount of Rs. 6,000/= shall be paid as an advance, monthly (for a period of twelve 
months) and Rs. 72,000/= paid as an advance will be deducted from the total amount, and the remaining amount 
of Rs. 60,000/= will be paid during the month of April 2022.
  Parties agree that the above payments made in terms of 4(iii) (c), will not attract EPF/ETF or any other statutory 
or consequential beneﬁ ts.
                 Trade union agrees with the management to review the third year increase reffered to under this clause in case  
there is a setback in the production performance for the ﬁ nancial year 2020-2021.
     (iv)  Trade Union and their members agree not to make further demands or raise issues/requests on matters relating to 
salaries/wages or salary increase of any employees during the period covered by this agreement.
 05. SHIFT, HEAT & DUST, MACHINE, SUBSISTENCE AND DISTURBANCE ALLOWANCES
 ( i). Shift Allowance
   The shift allowance payable for an 8 hours shift to the relevant employees is as follows:-
 Shift Amount
 Morning - Rs. 10/=
 Afternoon - Rs. 20/=
 Night - Rs. 35/=
 (ii). Heat and Dust Allowance
   The Heat and Dust allowance payable for an 8-hour shift to the relevant employees is as follows:-
 Heat Allowance - Rs. 10/= (Furnace)
 Dust Allowance - Rs. 09/= (Batch House)
   This would be conﬁ ned to relevant employees in line with the existing norms.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'03'31
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.03.2022
 6A
 ( iii). Machine Allowance
   Machine allowance - Rs. 100/= (Hot End & IS)
  Machine allowance is applicable to employees who are permanently attached to Hot End and IS divisions. 
This allowance will be paid only when the relevant employee arrives at his scheduled shift. Therefore, this 
allowance will not be paid during when the employee is engaged at work on overtime.
  This payment will come into effect from the date of signing the collective agreement.
  Management is required to take further possible measurers to minimize the impact arising out of heat, dust and 
sound.
 
      (iv).   Subsistence allowance & Disturbance allowance
  Subsistence allowance will be increased from Rs. 150/= to Rs. 175/=
  Disturbance allowance will be increased from Rs. 150/= to Rs. 175/=
  This would be con ﬁ ned to relevant conditions and relevant employees in line with the existing norms.
  This increase will come into effect from the date of signing the agreement.
   06. WELFARE ACTIVITIES
  
      (i).  Donation in the event of a Death
  In the event of a death of a permenent employee, who is covered and bound by this agreement, the employer 
agrees to increase the pay from Rs. 150,000/= to Rs. 200,000/= to the person who has been nominated by the 
employee.
  This will come into force from 1st June 2020.
     (ii).  Service Awards
  It is agreed between the parties that the following service awards shall be granted when an employee completes 
the relevant service periods as indicated below:-
 (a) An Employee who has completed 15 years of continous service shall receive a 8g gold coin.
 (b) An Employee who has completed 25 years of continous service shall receive a 10g gold coin.
 (c) An Employee who has completed 30 years of continous service shall receive a 12g gold coin.
 (d) The relevant service period shall be determined taking into consideration 1st April of each year as the base 
date.
 (e) Employees shall be entitled to the service award in the event of termination of their services on the 
following grounds and/or provided that other requirements, in granting the service award, have been 
fulﬁ lled:-
      Resignation from service
      V oluntary Retirement
      Reaching the age of retirement as per the letter of appointment.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'03'31
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.03.2022
 7A
 (f) The relevant period of service as per e) shall be determined by taking the last date of employment into 
consideration.
 (g) Exemptions:
 (I). It is agreed to grant the 25 year service award to an employee who has completed a continous period 
of 20 years of service, at the time of his retirement and has received the 15 year service award.
 (II). It is also agreed to grant the 30 year service award to an employee who has been in continous service 
at least for a period of one year after becoming entitled for the 25 year service award and at the time 
of retirement.   
   7 .  INSURANCE SCHEME
 (i) The Employer shall contribute 60% of the premium while the employee is required to contribute 40% of the 
premium for the said insurance scheme. The present maximum claim of Rs. 140,000/= per family per annum 
would continue to remain same. The sharing ratio (60:40) will remain the same during the pendency of this 
agreement.
  The parties agrees the said insurance scheme was inforce till the date of signing the agreement.
 (ii) From the date of signing this agreement to the next insurance year/agreement with the insurance company, it 
is agreed to amend the above 7 (i) clause in the insurance scheme to a maximum of Rs. 180,000/= per family 
per annum. Accordigly, the contribution of the insurance permium will be the employer to contribute 60% of 
the premium while the employee would contribute 40% of the premium.
 8. MEDICAL TEST
  An appropriate medical test for the employees deployed in the Batch House, Furnace, Hot End, Cold End, Packing, 
Printing and quality Assurance, in  addition, Employees who are engaged in maintenance activities  of is section,  
General maintenance  and instrument  Technician in the Electrical Division shall be carried out on a schedule  to be 
made by the  employer . In addition, examination  of eyes for all employees at the cold End shall also be carried out 
according to a schedule made by the employer.
  The above tests are mandatory, and  employees agree to make themselves available for the respective tests, According 
to the Schedule made by this employer.
 9. The employees covered by this Agreement agree to actively attend and undergo on the job training  initiatives  of the 
company, such as Management Information System (MIS)  International Organization  for Standardization (ISO), 
Occupational  Health and Safety Assessment series (OHSAS) kaizen, 5S, CLTI, Total Quality  Management (TQM), 
Area Effectiveness Team (AET) Six Sigma  Parivarthan, RTMI, E - learning etc.
  The trade union and employees agree to participate the above training programs and are individually and collectively 
bound to actively implement and complete them.
  The trade union  and employees agree to actively  participate to continue Parivarthan, RTMI and the above processes, 
CLTI  related activities and the implementation of 5S concept in the workplace  and the trade union and employees 
agree to maintain  the records and entries that the company introduced to each Section.
  The Union and the employees also agree to co-operate and support measures/ initiatives and quality improvement by 
involving themselves in self - managed group activities (including Parivarthan, RTMI, E-learming), Idea Bank and 
suggest scheme for productivity improvement.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'03'31
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.03.2022
 8A
  A Certi ﬁ cate / Letter of participations will be issued to the employees on Successful completion of structured 
Training Programmes by the management  A letter of participation for structured  training programm will be issued 
by the management.
 10. In view of the continuous manufacturing process that is operative in the factory, the union and the employees agree  
to co-operative to curb absenteeism and extending genuine support for achieving targeted plant efﬁ ciency.
 11. No employee shall leave his/her place of work /department till his reliever arrives and reports for duty and hands 
over change to the next person on the shift. They should be in full uniform  with required personal protective 
equipment (PPE) and should meet at machine ﬂ oor to brief about the production and machine  condition and defects 
to incoming employee.
 12. It shall be the responsibility of the employees to observe asset care initiative by taking care of the tools, machine, 
spare parts and proper packing of shop ﬂ oor materials. The trade union and employees agree that missing mould 
equipment which are not found need to be reported to their own sections.
 13. The trade union and the employees agree for monitoring running bottles, identifying defects in the production 
conveyer, taking recovery actions by machine operator when producing all type of bottles.
  The trade union and employees agree to enter the below mold number in RTMI except during job change, defect 
acknowledgement, to attend to the possible defect recti ﬁ cation by machine operators. if any defect, correction is 
beyond their control it should be informed to shif executive immediately.
 14. The trade union and the employees agree that machine operators should load the gob time to on demand and ensure 
that sheer spary water and wear handling should be done properly and make corrections whenever necessary.
 15. Usage of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and adhering to safety instructions and norms as per standards and 
follow the requirements of ISO standards are compulsory for all employees at the workplace.
 16. Use of mobile phones at the workplace shall be strictly on prior approval and shall be under exceptional circumstances. 
The mobile phones are permitted to bring to the factory premises based on the said condition only.
 17. Trade union, and employees agree to keep the workplace clean and in order.
 18. Trade union, the employees and the employer agree to align with the inspection/ observation procedures, which are 
required for the security of the organization.
 19. As per the current system, the machine operators in the hot end section agree to measure the weight of the bottle in 
the relevant production line and to record it.
 20. The trade union and employees agree to do blank and blow parallel swabbing every one hour in P1, P2, P3 and 
P4 lines and they will do parallel swabbing in P5 line two times per hour in line with the rotaion of the machine 
operators for the pourposse of regularizing present duties carried out by the same employees. The trade union and 
employees agree to follow the procedure adapted in P1, P2, P3 and P4 lines whenwver the said employees are 
deployed to work in P0.
 21. The trade union and the employees accept the need for IS employees' involvement to start the IS machine after job 
change and handling of variables and mould equipment carefully to improve efﬁ ciency and reduse T1.
  Further, all the other relevant departments should support to reduce T2 time. The trade union and employees agree 
for attending to strat the machine after evry job change by IS employees and to bring IS ﬁ tters for job changes in the 
early hoours, that is to attend as they came before as per management requirement.
 22. The Employees who are members of the trade union agree to work appropriately and with due concentration in 
relation to their respective work areas during their working hours within the organization. The Employer agrees to 
provide the necessary facilities and the work-environment for this purpose.
 23. In view of the continuous manufacturing process that is operative in the factory, the union and employees agree to 
concentrate and co-operate to minimize and control re-sorting.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'03'31
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.03.2022
 9A
 24. The furnace operators in furnace department agree to remove and install stirrers sord disposal. The trade union and 
employees agree to maintain quanti drain (when there are three employees ) and properly supervise and observe the 
system when color forhearth is not in operation.
 25. The employees agree that they are bound by the is dciplinary standards / norms and work arrangements and 
prevailing procedures of the company and the company has the right to take appropriate disciplinary action against 
any misconduct/ violation.
 26. Trade Union and Employees agree to actively and enthusiastically participate in all activities done to preserve 
energy.
 27. In view of continuing the existing inspection process and activities of the Quality Assurance department after adding 
the P0 line, four employees will be deployed and those people will be sourced, two from existing PO carder and two 
from other sections/ departments. Out  of this, three people will be deployed by the management and trade union 
agrees to release one employee from furnace section. Employees will not be deployed on overtime basis at furnace 
section due to said released. However steps will be taken to engage in overtime only for essential reasons with the 
sanction of the sectional managers.
      28.  The trade union and employees agree to move away from the current practice of line changing everyday by the cold 
end supervisors/ assistant supervisors and to change the lines once a month only.
      29. The employees agree to involve themselves actively and ef ﬁ ciently in various committees, including, Safety 
committee canteen committee, welfare committee etc. 
   30. Any sabotage act carried-out which will have an adverse impact on productivity, ef ﬁ ciency & sales would be
   considered as violation of agreement.
     31. The Union and its members and the employees covered and bound by this agreement, jointly and severally agree     
with the employer that during the continuance in  force of this  agreement, they shall not engage in any strike or other 
form of trade union action against the employer in respect of any dispute between the employer on the one hand and 
the union and/ or its members and / or any employees covered and bound by this agreement on the other hand when 
such dispute is related a matter covered by this agreement.
     32. The trade union and employees agree to take immediate actions when it is known that an attempt is being made to 
infringe or violate any clauses of this agreement by any member individually or collectively.
      33. Grievance and Dispute Settlement Procedure 
 In the event of any dispute or grievance in relation to a matter / dispute not covered under this collective agreement, 
between an employee or employees/ ‘‘Trade Union” and the employer, the following procedure shall be followed for 
the settlement of such dispute or in resolving such grievance:
        i.    The employee or the ‘‘Trade Union’’ representative shall, in the ﬁ rst instance, raise the dispute or grievance with the 
Sectional Manager / departmental Head.
     ii. If the dispute or grievance is not satisfactorily resolved as referred to at 33.i above, the employee or the ‘‘Trade 
Union’’ representative shall then refer the matter to the Human Resource Manager in writing, and the Human 
Resource Manager shall discuss the matter with the employee or the ‘‘Trade Union’’ representative and  Endeavour 
to bring about a settlement.
 
 iii. If no satisfactory solution is arrived at the discussions in 33. ii above, then the matter in dispute shall be discussed 
by the employee or ‘‘Trade Union’’ with the members of the senior mamagement represented by the  present 
designation of General Manager / Vice President. 
 iv. If no satisfactory solution is arrived at the discussion in 33.iii above, then the matter in dispute shall be discussed 
by the Employee or ‘‘Trade Union’’ with the COO / CEO / President.
 v. If the dispute is not resolved as referred to at 33-iv above, the employee / Trade Union may pursue the matter with 
the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon (EFC), of which the employer is a member.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'03'31
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.03.2022
 10A
 vi. If after discussion the matter cannot be resolved buy the intervention of EFC or under certain circumstances if 
the ‘‘Trade Union’’ decide not to agree for the intervention of the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon, after giving 
reasons to that effect, and then conciliatory proceedings under the Industrial Dispute Act (IDA) should be followed.
 vii. (a) If the conciliation in the Department of Labour fails, and the ‘‘Trade Union” contemplates stoppage of work or 
strike action, not less than 21 days prior written notice should be given to the employer and to the EFC.
  (b) If any Trade Union action other than the action referred to under 33.vii -a) is contemplated not less than 7 days 
prior written notice should be given to the employer and the EFC.
 viii. Without prejudice to the provisions above, the employees the ‘‘Trade Union” and its members hereby agree that 
they shall not resort to any Trade Union action in respect of any dispute not covered by this agreement without 
having recourse to the Grievance and Disputes Settlement Procedure set out harein.
 ix. Management agrees to reply trade union letters on disputes within a period of 7 days.
 34.   i. The term ‘‘Trade Union’’ shall include an employee / employees and / or Trade Union as well.
  ii. “Salaries or Wages’’ mean consolidated salaries or wages.
EOG 03-1091
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
In witness hereof, the parties placed their signatures on this on 9th September, Two Thousand & Twenty, at Colombo.