

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.06.2013
1 A – G 17813 — 325 (2013/06)
wxl 1815$3 - 2013 cqks ui 17 jeks i÷od - 2013'06'17
No. 1815/3  -  MONDAY   JUNE  17,  2013
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
My No.  : IR/14/14/2007.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT  (CHAPTER
131)
THE award transmitted to me by the Arbitrator to whom the
Industrial Dispute which has risen between Mr. S. M.
Wijekoon Banda, No. 216/1, Polgaha Anga, Weligalla/Mr. W.
G . Panditharatha, No. 31, Mount Prenian, Murutalawa/Mr. K.
G .. Piyadasa, No. 10/25, Gala Watta, Dharmapala Mawatha,
Kandy, of the one part and Sri Lanka Telecom Limited, Head
Office, P. O. Box 503, Colombo 01 of the other part was referred
by order dated 08.09.2006 made under Section 4(1) of the
Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131 (as amended) and
published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka Extraordinary No. 1463/2 dated 18.09.2006 for
settlement by Arbitration is hereby published in terms of
Section 18(1) of the said Act.
M. D. C
HANDANI AMARA THUNGA,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
11th  June, 2013.
Reference No. IR/14/14/2007
1. Mr. S. M. Wijekoon Banda,
No. 216/1, Polgaha Anga,
Weligalla.
2. Mr. W. G. Panditharathna,
No. 31, Mount Prenian,
Murutalawa,
3. Mr. K. G. Piyadasa,
No. 10/25, Gala Watta,
Dharmapala Mawatha,
Kandy.
………………Applicants
Vs.
Sri Lanka Telecom Limited,
Head Office, P. O. Box 503,
Colombo 01
………………Respondent
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
Case No. A-3184

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.06.2013
The Award
Minister of Labour Relations and Foreign Employment do
by virtue of the powers vested in him by Section 4(1) of the
Industrial Disputes Act Chapter 131 of the Legislative
Enactments of Ceylon (1956 Revised Edition), as amended
by Act, Nos. 14 of 1957, 4 of 1962 and 39 of 1968 (read with
Industrial Disputes (Special Provisions) Act, No. 37 of 1968)
hereby appointed me. As Arbitrator and referred the aforesaid
dispute to me for settlement by arbitration.
Statement of matter in dispute
The matter in dispute between the aforesaid parties is
Whether the three (03) employees namely Messers. S. M.
Wijekoon Banda, W. G . Panditharatna and K. G.  Piyadasa
who were dismissed from the service with effect from
29.07.1995 by Sri Lanka Telecom Limited is entitled for the
reinstatement in the service and if so entitled, to what relief
each of them is granted.
This matter was taken up for inquiry. Both parties were
present. Attorney-at-Law Mr. Ranhoty with Representative
Mr. Phetiyagoda appeared for the applicants. Attorney-at-
Law Mr. Vijith Wickramarathna appeared for the respondent.
I have examined the evidence in this case both, oral and
documentary, and the written submission of the parties.
The evidence of Applicant Mr. Piyadasa shows that he
was appointed as an unskilled Labourer under the
Respondent on 9/1/74. He worked a period of 17 years under
department of Telecommunications and subsequently he
continued in employment under Sri Lanka Telecom
Corporation as a Skilled Labourer grade I, He retired from the
Department of Telecommuications at the age of 46. There
was an incident on 07.04.1994. He was working as Head of
Section (Head Bass). The incident related to an underground
Cable Drum taken from the Wattegama Stores. D. I. T. should
order the issue of the Cable Drum from the stores with the
approval of the Engineer. This was not done. The D. I. T.
ordered the store keeper to issue the said Cable from the
stores. The requisition to be issued, later his evidence is that
he was in office. D. I. T. spoke to the store-keeper to issue  the
Cable to him (Piyadasa). He went to the Wattegama Stores to
take the Cable in the evening at about 4.30 p. m. The D. I. T.
requested the lorry driver Wijerathna to take the lorry and
bring the Cable from Wattegama Stores to Kandy. The cable
was not unloaded in Kandy. It remained in the lorry. Applicant
stated that he got order from D. I. T. to go in the lorry with two
others and bring goods from the Colombo Maradana Stores.
On the next day 08.04.1994, Applicant Piyadasa went in the
lorry with the Cable taking with him. Applicant Wijekone
Banda and Applicant Panditharathna. The Lorry driver was
Wijerathna D. I. T.’s order was to give the Cable Drum to
driver Ellepola Applicant stated that the lorry was stopped in
front of Sugathadasa Stadium.
The evidence of applicant Piyadasa shows that Ellepola
came in a Delica Van and brought a lorry and unloaded the
Cable from the Telecom lorry and loaded it into the lorry
brought by Driver Ellepola. The lorry with the Cable was
taken by Ellepola towards Mattakuliya. Applicant Piyadasa
stated that he went in the Telecom lorry to Maradana Stores.
Store-Keeper at Maradana inquired about the Cable Drum he
(Piyadasa) told the store-keeper that he does not know what
happened to the Cable Drum driver Wijerathna gave it to
driver Hllepola. Applicant came back to Kandy. He was
requested by the D. G. M. in Colombo to give a statement to
the police. He gave a statement to the police at about 7 p. m.
after that, a case was filed in the Magistrate Court Kandy
against five accused, D. I. T. Wickramasekara, 1st accused,
Ellepola 2nd accused, Applicant Piyadasa 3rd accused,
Applicant Panditharathna 4th accused, Applicant Wijekone
Banda 5th accused. Driver Wijerathna and Store-Keeper
Liyanawadu gave evidence for the prosecution, Judgment of
the Magistrates Court Case was produced in evidence R. I.
All accused were convicted and sentenced to 6 month R. I.
and Rs. 5,000/- fine. Accused appealed to the High Court
Kandy case No. Appeal -/61/95. The High Court set aside
that judgment of the Magistrates Court Case and ordered a
re-trial before another Judge. Applicant Piyadasa stated in
evidence that the Police did not proceed with the trial as the
1st witness Engineer Serasinghe died. As such, the Magistrate
discharged the accused.
His evidence shows that thereafter, the applicants
appealed to the Respondent in writing to re-instate them in
service. The Respondent rejected the appeal. No charges
were framed against them and no inquiry was held by the
Respondent. The Respondent interdicted applicants by A7
letter dated 11.04.1994. His services was terminated by A1
letter dated 14.08.1995. The reason for termination of services
was because the applicant was convicted in Magistrates
Court Case No. 28417. In evidence in answer to court.
Applicant stated that his age is 62 years. As such, he is
asking for the relief of compensation and his salary for the
period of non-employment.
His cross-examination in evidence shows that the theft of
the Cable took place on 07.04.1994. He goes to Colombo to
bring goods along with D. I. T. or Store-Keeper. On this
occasion the Store-Keeper accept the goods in Colombo. He
gets instructions from D. I. T. to go to Colombo orally D. I. T.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.06.2013
or Store-keeper goes to the stores and collect goods, and the
requisition is given later, on the date of the incident. D. I. T.
gave instruction to bring the Cable from Wattegama Stores.
The Cable was issued and he accepted the Cable from the
watcher and he signed a book. He took the Cable to Kandy.
On instructions from D. I. T. to the driver the Cable was taken
in the lorry to Colombo. The Store-keeper went along with
him in the lorry to Colombo. The Driver Wijerathna was given
instructions to hand over the Cable to Driver Ellapola in
Colombo. His evidence shows that the Cable was taken to
Colombo with instructions given to the Driver Wijerathna.
The lorry was halted near Sugathadasa Stadium. He denied
that the Cable was in his charge when it was taken to Colombo.
His position is that D. I. T. gave instruction to Driver
Wijerathna to hand cover Cable to Ellepola. The Cable was to
be loaded into a Delica Van but it could not to loaded and a
Driver Ellepola brought a lorry and the Cable was loaded into
the lorry. The applicant Piyadasa stated that he had no
suspicion about the Cable being loaded in to the lorry. He
denied that he was involved in the theft of the Cable.
He stated that the Telecom Engineer gives instructions
for transportation of Cables from the stores. But, in this
instance, the D. I. T. gave instructions to the Driver Wijerathna
to take the Cable to Colombo. He stated in evidence that the
Engineer never gave instructions to him. In this instance, the
D. I. T. gave instructions to him, to take the Cable from
Wattegama stores to Kandy. His evidence in that a urgent
situations, when the engineer is not available, the Cable can
be issued and later approval obtained. He denied in evidence
that he was involved in the theft of the Cable. His Cross-
examination in evidence shows that D. I. T. Wickramasekera
was 1st accused in the Magistrate Court theft case No. 28417.
Applicant Piyadasa was 3rd accused, the other applicants
Panditharathna and Wijekone Banda were the 4th and 5th
accused. the 2nd accused was driver Ellepola. The accused
were found guilty and fine Rs. 5,000/- and six months jail. The
applicant accused appealed to the High Court. The High court
discharged the accused and ordered a re-trial before the
Magistrate Court. His evidence shows that at the re-trial the
accused were discharged as the 1st witness in this case, died
and the Police was not proceeding with the case.
Subsequently, the Respondent terminated the services of
the applicants letter for termination of services was marked
A1 dated 14.08.1995. His Cross-examination shows that he
appealed to the Respondent for re-reinstatement. He did not
file an application to the Labour Tribunal. He made a complaint
to the Labour Department. It was suggested by the
Respondent in evidence that he was not entitled to re-
reinstatement as he was not acquitted in the Magistrate Court
Case. In answer to this suggestion. Applicant stated that he
was discharged in the Magistrate Court, he asked the
Respondent for the re-reinstatement. The evidence of
Applicant Panditharathna shows that he was appointed to
the Post of Labour Grade 3 in the Department of
Telecommunication. Later the Department was converted to
a corporation. His  appointment was from 08.11.1988. He
worked in Kurunegala and thereafter in Kandy. He was
subsequently promoted to the Grade 2, while working in the
Department, an incident relating to the stolen Cable occurred
and he was interdicted without wages from service on
07.04.1994. At the time of the incident, the witness was working
in the lorry driven, by the lorry driver Wijerathna, His evidence
shows that he worked in the lorry on the instructions of
driver Wijerathna. His duties as Assistant in the lorry were to
check the water, and oil the lorry, and take care of the goods.
Regarding the incident relating to the theft of Cable a case
was filed in the Magistrate Court against him and the other
two applicants. But, lorry driver Wijerathna was not charged
in court. Wijerathna was made a Prosecution Witness. The
evidence shows that he was found guilty in the Case and he
was sentenced to 6 months jail and fined Rs. 5,000/-. He
appealed to the High Court and re-trial was ordered by the
High Court at the re-trail in the Magistrates Court. he was
acquitted along with the other two applicants. His evidence
shows that they appealed to the Respondent for re-
instatement. There was no satisfactory response by the
Respondent, Thereafter, they complained to the Labour
Department, there was no settlement and the dispute was
referred for arbitration. They further, requested the
Respondent to hold an inquiry. No inquiry was held and their
services were terminated.
Applicant in evidence related the circumstances relating
to the incident. His evidence shows that he was not aware of
the theft of the Cable when it was transported in the lorry on
the date of the incident. He stated in evidence that his service
were unjustifiably terminated.
His Cross-Examination in evidence shows that he worked
as as Assistant in the lorry. The driver Wijerathna of the lorry
gave him instruction relating to his duties. On the date of the
incident on 07.04.1994, the driver Wijerathna gave instructions
to him to go to Colombo in the lorry. He was unaware of the
reason a Cable Drum was loaded into the lorry. He assisted in
the loading of the Cable which was taken from the Wattegama
stores and then transported to Colombo. He does not know
whether approval was obtained to transport the Cable from
Kandy to Colombo on the date of the incident. He had no
suspicion on the date of the incident. The other two
Applicants went to Colombo with him in the lorry. Applicant
Piyadasa took the Cable from the stores. He does not know
whether driver was given instruction to take the Cable to
Colombo. He does not know whether D. I. T. Wickramasekara
gave money to the driver Wijerathna to pump diesel into the
lorry. He denied in evidence that no instructions were given

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.06.2013
to take the Cable to Colombo. He denied in evidence that D.
I. T. Wickramasekara with four others who went in the lorry
committed theft of the Cable Drum. He stated in evidence
that he was the 4th accused in the Magistrates Court Case.
He denied involvement in the charge in the Magistrate Court
Case. In evidence he stated that he was terminated from
services as he was convicted in the Magistrates  Court Case
according to letter of termination A 20. He appealed to the
high Court and the High Court found him not guilty and a re-
trial was ordered in the Magistrates Court. He denied the
suggestion in Cross-examination that the High Court did not
acquit him but ordered a re-trial of the Case in the Magistrates
Court. His position in evidence is in that the sentence by the
Magistrates Court was set aside and a re-trail ordered. His
evidence is that after the Magistrates Court Case was over
he along with the other applicants complained to the
Commissioner of Labour. His evidence shows that at the re-
trail of the case in the Magistrate Court as there was no
evidence against them the prosecution did not proceed with
the case. They were discharged in the Case. He denied in
evidence that he committed an offence while in employment
and as such, his services were terminated and consequently
he cannot claim relief from the Industrial Court.
The evidence of Applicant Wijekoon Banda shows that
he was charge sheeted along with the other applicants for
committing an offence. His evidence is that he was appointed
as a Labourer on 02.07.1979 and later promoted to grade 2 as
a Labourer from 01.08.1988. He continued in employment in
Sri Lanka Telecom Company as  a labourer.
His evidence shows that, he along with the other two
applicants were charged in the Magistrates Court and they
were convicted. They appealed to the High Court and the
High Court ordered a re-trial by the Magistrate. To date there
is no case proceeding against him. He appealed to the
Respondent for re-reinstatement along with the other two
Applicants. The Respondent rejected their Appeal. They
requested the Respondent to hold an inquiry. The Respondent
failed to comply with their request. Thereafter they
complained to the Labour Department. There was no
settlement and this matter was referred to arbitration. In
evidence, he stated that he adopts the evidence given by the
other two applicants relating to the facts detailed by them in
this matter. In relief he claimed re-reinstatement with back
wages.
His Cross-examination shows that their services were
terminated relating to an incident of a Cable Drum at the time
of the incident on 07.04.1994, he was working as a Skilled
Labourer. He worked under Mr. Wickramasekara the D. I. T..
He got instruction regarding his work form the head of the
Cable Section. After work, he came to office D. I. T. gave oral
instructions to go to Colomobo the following day to bring
goods. He went to Colombo with Applicants Piyadasa,
Panditharathne, and the lorry driver. He sat in the front seat.
He did not know goods belonging to the Respondent, were
taken in the lorry. He came to know when the goods were
unloaded. The lorry did not stop on the way. The goods were
unloaded near Sugathadasa Stadium. He got down from the
lorry as the lorry driver Wijerathna told him that the amount
he over loaded near Sugathadasa Stadium. There, he came to
know that there was Cable Drum in the lorry. He had no
suspicion when it was unloaded and on the road. Applicant
Piyadasa was the Head Boss. He was in the lorry. He denied
the incident was improper and illegal. He stated in evidence
in cross-evidence that he got instructions to go in the lorry
to bring goods from Colombo. After the incident he came to
know that this was irregular, and this was stolen, His evidence
shows that a Case was filed in the Magistrates Court. He was
the 5th accused in the case. His position in evidence in that
the accused were given the opportunity to give evidence.
but he accused did not give evidence. His evidence is that he
was convicted in the Magistrate Court and his services were
terminated. On appeal to the High Court, the High Court set
aside the judgment in the case and ordered a re-trial. Thereafter,
they did not made an application to the Labour Tribunal, but
complained to the Labour Department. His evidence shows
that he has the right to claim relief in Arbitration before the
Industrial Court.
I have examined the evidence of the applicants taking into
consideration the evidence of Applicant Piyadasa. I am of
the view that his evidence shows that, while working as Head
of the Cable Section, an incident occurred on 07.04.1994. It
related to an underground Cable taken from the Wattegama
Stores. D. I. T. should order issue of the Cable from the stores
with the approval of the Engineer. This was not done, D I. T.
ordered the store-keeper to issue the said Cable from the
stores. The requisition to be issued later, He was in office
whom the order was made he order was given to the Store-
Keeper to issue the Cable to Piyadasa. Lorry Driver Wijeratna
was requested to take the lorry and bring the Cable from
Wattegama stores to Kandy. The Cable was not unloaded in
Kandy. It remained in the lorry, D. I. T. ordered Applicant
Piyadasa to go in the lorry with the other Applicants to bring
goods from Colombo the following day, 08.04.1994, The lorry
driver Wijerathna was requested to hand over the Cable to
Driver Ellepola he did not know what happened to the Cable
he came back to Kandy and on the instruction of the D. G. M.
he gave a statement to the Police.
On his evidence, I am of the views that Applicant Piyadasa
complied with the order of the D. I. T. and he went to Colombo
stores to bring goods to Kandy, He was not given instructions
regarding the Cable Drum.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.06.2013
Driver Wijerathna was given instructions regarding the
Cable and he was responsible to comply with the instructions
of the D. I. T.
Taking into consideration the evidence of Applicant
Panditharathna, I am of the view that his evidence shows
that he was appointed as a Labourer Grade 3 and promoted to
Grade 2. An incident relating to a stolen Cable occurred on
07.04.1994. He was working as lorry Assistant in the lorry
driven by driver Wijerathna and he worked on instruction of
the said driver. He was not aware of the theft of the Cable.
When it was transported in the Lorry to Colombo on the date
of the incident. He denied in evidence that he committed
theft of the Cable.
On his evidence, I am of the view that he travelled in the
lorry driven by Driver Wijerathna and followed and complied
with instructions given by driver Wijerathna,
Taking into consideration the evidence of Applicant
Wijekoone Banda, I am of the view that the he was appointed
a Labourer on 02.07.1997 and later promoted to Grade 2 as a
Labourer from 01.08.1988. He continued in employment in Sri
Lanka Telecom Company as a Labourer, He, along with the
other two applicants, were charged in the Magistrate Court
for theft of a Cable. They appealed to the High Court. The
High Court ordered a re-trail. To date, there are no case
proceedings against them. He appealed to the Respondent
along with the other two Applicants for re-reinstatement. The
Respondent rejected the Appeal. They requested the
Respondent to hold a disciplinary inquiry. The Respondent
did not comply with their request. They complained to the
Labour Department. There was no settlement. This matter
was referred to Arbitration. His evidence shows that he adopts
the evidence given by the other two applicants relating to
the incident on 07.04.1994.
His Cross-examination show that he got instructions from
the Applicant Piyadasa Head Boss regarding his work. The
D. I. T. gave instructions to him on 07.04.1994 to go to
Colombo to bring goods. He did not know goods belonging
to the Respondent were taken in the lorry. He came to know
when the goods were unloaded near Sugathadasa Stadium.
He had no suspicion when the Cable was unloaded.
Taking into consideration the evidence of Applicants
Piyadasa, Panditharathna and Wijekoone Banda, I am of the
view that they acted on the instructions of D. I. T.
Wickramasekara on the date of the incident on 07.04.1994. On
their evidence I am further of the view that the D. I. T. gave
specific instructions to the Driver Wijerathna to take the Cable
to Colombo and hand it over to Drive Ellapola, which he did
and complied with the instructions. The said instructions
were given orally  by the D. I. T. Wickramasekara.
On the evidence, I am of the view that D. I. T.
Wickramasekara along with Driver Wijerathan are responsible
to the Respondent for transporting the Cable taken from
Wattegama stores to Kandy and thereafter to Colombo. I
have now to consider the evidence of the witnesses for the
Respondent to decide the issues in this case on the probable
evidence.
Witness Kumari Godamanna Senior Administrative
Assistant Engineer in evidence stated that in the year 1994,
she worked in the Cable Section in Telecom Kandy. She was
the IPT until April 1994. Her duties were to install Telephones
in Kandy town, Applicant Wijekoon Band was a Laburer
working in her section.
Applicant Panditharathna was working as Assistant in
the Vehicle in the Cable Section. Applicant Piyadasa worked
in the Cable Section until 01.04.1994. He was the Head Bass
in this Section. Piyadasa was transferred out of the Section
on 01.04.1994. witness does not know the reason. The
Engineer was Mr. Serasinghe Wickramasekara was the D. I. T.
Abeygunawardana was the Manager. Witness came to know
that the D. I. T. Wickramasekara and the Applicants were
remanded and were accused in a case. Witness came to know
this when the Police met D. I. T. on 07th April in the office
regarding this matter.
The evidence of this witness shows that she did not know
applicant Wijekoone Banda an applicant Piyadasa who went
to Colombo with the Drum she knew that a group of workers
went to Colombo. In evidence, she detailed the procedure
that should be taken when goods are taken from Wattegama
stores and brought to Kandy. An applicant on form must be
filled with a requisition for the goods taken from the stores
and approval should be obtained from the I. P. T. and the D. I.
T.
Her evidence in Cross-examination shows that she does
not know whether, in this instance, a requisition was given
for the issue of the Cable she does not know whether, in the
this case M. R. Q. M. form was filled and a request was made
to the D. I. T. and approval was given. She cannot say whether
the issue of this Cable was against the procedure. It is her
evidence that there is a circular regarding the procedure and
the D. I. T. and store-keeper are aware of it. The labour is not
aware of it. Her evidence shows that she does not know
whether there were documents to support the issue and
transportation of this Cable her evidence shows, that if the
Cable was issued fraudulently, the superior officers were
2— G 17813

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.06.2013
aware of it, and they should be responsible. The superior
officers were aware of the relevant circular and regulations.
Taking into consideration the evidence of this witness, I
am of the view that this witness was totally unaware of the
circumstances relating to the issue and transportation of this
Cable Drum by the Applicants on the date of the incident. On
the evidence of  this witness, I am further of the view that her
evidence only relates to the procedure to be adopted for the
issue and transport of the Cable Drum in terms of the circular
issued by the Respondent. Her evidence does not prove the
guilt of the Applicants relating to the incident. The evidence
of witness Chief Administrator Officer Mr. Meril Perera for
the Respondent shows that he worked from the year 1982. In
1992, he worked in Kandy as Deputy General Manager in the
central province. His evidence shows that a goods for the
Wattegama stores is obtained from main stores in Peliyagoda
and Maradana. He detailed the procedure to be taken in the
district level when goods are necessary. The I. P. T. makes a
request from the D. I. T. and approval is obtained from the
Engineer. A requisition is filled for the purpose. The Cable
section was functioning under the supervision of the
Engineer Serasinghe. The Storekeepter at Wattegama stores
receives the goods and entries are made in the book
maintained in the stores. The store keeper is responsible for
the goods in the stores. The store keeper and the watcher are
aware of the goods stored in the stores. His evidence shows
that in an urgency goods could be taken from the Store keeper
on a chit in writing and on the following day. Application
should be made and the chit withdrawn, Approval is obtained
thereafter. The procedure to be followed is known to all the
employees in the establishment. Witness stated in evidence
that he personally knows the applicant Piyadasa,
Panditharathna, Wijekoone Banda, Piyadasa worked as Head
of the section, Wijekoon Banda was a labourer and
Panditharathna was the lorry Assistant. His evidence shows
that he worked in the Kandy office in the year 1994. An incident
relating to the loss of a Cable belonging to the Respondent
occurred in April 1994. He cannot remember the date.
He was informed about the incident by the Police and  a
superior officer. He did not take action, legal action proceeded.
He remembers the Police informing him about a Cable Drum
taken in a Telecom lorry. He did not take action against the
three applicants. When he came to know of the incident, the
Police commenced investigation. He received summons in
the case filed by the Police and he gave evidence in Court
indentifying the accused and the productions in Court. His
evidence shows that he made inquiries regarding the incident.
He related in evidence the details of the incident relating to
the removal of the Cable from Wattegama stores and the
transport of the Cable from Kandy to Colombo. The
applicants were arrested by the Police with the lorry and the
said Cable. In evidence, he stated that no approval was taken
for the transporation of the Cable from Kandy to Colombo.
His evidence shows that an offence was committed in the
transporation of the Cable. In evidence, he produced the
copy the proceedings. In the Magistrate Court case No. 28417
filed against the accused marked R6 to R9. He produced  in
evidence R1 dated 27.03.1995 letter of suspension of the
applicants after the decision of the Magistrate Court. He
referred to the letter of termination issued to the applicants
wherein, their services were terminated as they were found
guilty in the Magistrate Court Case and punished, witness
was referred to the High Court Appeal judgment wherein the
judgement of he Magistrate Case was set aside and re-trial
ordered. Witness was referred to the subsequent re-trial order
by the Magistrate, where in the applicant (accused) were
discharged by the as the Police did not proceed with the case
for the reason that witness engineer Serasinghe died.
The evidence of the witness shows that there are workers
in sections who work under the head of the section. The
head of the section is under the I. P. T. and the I. P. T. is under
the D. I. T. The D. I. T. was Mr. Wickramasekera, The D. I. T. is
under the Engineer. The Engineer, at the time of the incident
was Mr. Serasinghe.
The Cross-examination in evidence of this  witness shows
that the Applicants were convicted in the Magistrate Court
and they appealed to the High Court. The High Court set
aside the judgment and sent the case back for re-trial. At the
re-trail, the prosecution withdrew the case and did not
proceed with the case as the 1st witness died. His evidence
shows that the Applicants committed an offence relating to
the incident. He does not know whether a domestic inquiry
was held against, the Applicants. He agreed that driver
Wijerathne who took the goods to Colombo and the driver
who took over the goods were arrested. He cannot remember
whether the applicants went to the police station the following
day and their statements were recorded. He agreed with police
report that the applicants were arrested when they made their
statements in the Police station and not in Colombo. He denied
in evidence that driver Wijerathna who should have been an
accused in the Magistrate Court case was released and made
a Crown Witness and the Police proceeded with the case.
Witness further stated that he was aware that the Applicants
were convicted in the Magistrate Court Case. They appealed
to the High Court against the conviction. The High Court set
aide the Conviction and ordered a re-trail. He cannot say
whether there is a High Court or Magistrate Court case
pending. His evidence shows that he was working in Telecom
Office Kandy at the time of the incident. On the date of the
incident the Cable was transported from Kandy in the Telecom
lorry to a place near Sugathadasa Stadium in Colombo. Goods
from the stores in Colombo were to be transported to Kandy.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.06.2013
He heard from the Police that the Cable Drum was to be handed
over to someone in Colombo. He is unaware whether Applicant
Piyadasa and the workers went to Colombo to bring the goods
to Kandy. He is aware that the lorry with the goods and the
people in the lorry were arrested by the Police. His evidence
shows that he does not know whether the store keeper
Liyanawaduge went to Colombo in the lorry. He is unaware
whether the store keeper and Piyadasa and others went in
the lorry to bring goods from Colombo. His evidence shows
that he is unable to say whether D. I. T. Wickramasekara was
responsible for this incident. The Police investigation should
reveal this. In Cross examination in evidence, he stated that
the applicants were terminated from service on the judgment
of the Magistrate Court case wherein they were found guilty.
He denied in evidence that there is no valid decision finding
the applicants guilty, which has been submitted in evidence.
before this Court. He is unaware of the Applicants requesting
the Respondent to hold a domestic inquiry. He cannot say
whether such inquiry was not held to date. This is done by
the Human Resources Division. He stated in evidence that
the Police filed action in court and punishment was meted
out by court on the Applicants. His evidence shows that he
does not know the details of the journey relating to this
incident. His evidence shows that he cannot say whether the
three Applicants took the Cable or not from Wattegama to
Kandy and then to Colombo.
Taking into consideration the evidence of this Witness, I
am of the view that he was working, in the Telecom Office in
Kandy at the time of the incident in April 1994. As the Deputy
General Manager he detailed out the procedure relating to
the issue of the goods from the stores. His evidence clearly
points to the fact that he was informed of the incident by the
Police. He did not take action in the matter. The Police took
legal action in the matter. He gave evidence in Court identifying
the accused applicants and the production in Court. The
evidence of this Witness shows that he is unaware of the
detail facts relating to the incident. He gave evidence on
facts revealed in the investigation by the Police. On his
evidence, I am of the view that he was not personally of
officially aware of the facts relating to the incident. I say this
for the reason that he referred to the Magistrate Court Case,
and stated that the Applicants were found guilty by the
Magistrate on the evidence led in the Magistrates Court and
the Applicants were punished, resulting in disciplinary action
taken by the Respondent to terminate the services of the
Applicants.
On the evidence of this Witness, I am of the view that his
demeanor in evidence shows that he was evasive in answers
given by him in evidence in Cross Examination. He appeared
to me that he was clueless on the facts elicited by him in
evidence.
For this reason I am of the view that there is no value in his
evidence to prove the guilt of the Applicants on the facts
relating to the incident.
The evidence of Witness Rodrigo, Manager Human
Resources shows that he worked in Telecom for 33 years. He
started as a clerk and later as Assistant Senior Executive in
the Human Resources Division. He does not know, the
Applicants personally. He was not working in this Division
at the time of the incident. He worked in this Division for six
years. He gave evidence relating to the incident from the
connected file. He related in evidence from the file that the
Applicants were convicted in Magistrate Court Case No. 28417
and punished. On the conviction in the Magistrate Court
Case. The accused applicants were interdicted and terminated
from service on 28.07.1995. The applicants appealed against
the judgment to the High Court. The High Court ordered a
re-trial before another judge. At the re-trial, the Police did not
proceed with the case, as the Witness Engineer Serasinghe
died. The Magistrate discharged the accused applicants. The
applicants then appealed to the Management for
re-reinstatement. The Disciplinary Board rejected the appeal.
No domestic inquiry was held. The applicants were terminated
on the original by the conviction magistrate in the Magistrate
Court Case.
Witness referred in evidence of the appointment letters of
the applicants. The retiring age of the applicants is 55 years.,
the extension of services is up to the age of 60 years. At the
discretion of the Management a workman convicted by the
decision of a Court no extension of service will be given. His
evidence shows that the applicant Piyadasa and Wijekoone
Banda received their pension after 01.09.1995 when the
company Telecom took over the administration. Witness
marked documents R17 to R19 showing the amounts the
applicants would receive, if they worked up to the age of 60
years.
His evidence in Cross examination shows that the time the
incident took place, he was not working in the Human
Resource Division. He has now worked for about six to seven
months in this Division. The applicants were interdicted on
07.04.1994, and their services were terminated on 28.07.1995,
he agreed in evidence that the High Court Judge set aside the
order of the Magistrate Court and ordered a re-trial in this
matter before another judge - RI dated 13.03.1995 reveals
this. His evidence shows that, at the re-trial, the Police did
not proceed with the case, as the 1st Witness for prosecution
died. He agreed there was no decision in the re-trial punishing
the applicants.
Witness stated in evidence that, if a workman was acquitted
in Magistrate Court case it is the duty of the Respondent to

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.06.2013
hold a Domestic inquiry. His evidence shows that the
applicants submitted an appeal on 05.11.2004 to the
Management for re-reinstatement, but the Disciplinary Board
rejected the appeal considering the fact that the applicants,
were convicted in the Magistrate Court. Witness agreed that
according to Document R 10, the Disciplinary Board took
this decision without holding a disciplinary inquiry against
the applicants. His evidence shows  that the Department of
Telecommunication was converted to a corporation and later
a company was formed. The Employees position was not
changed. Employees holding position for 10 years were able
to retire. Applicants Piyadasa and Wijekoon retired on the
basis of 10 years service. Applicant Panditharathna was not
eligible to retire as his service was below 10 years. Employees
at 55 years were eligible to apply for extension of services up
to 60 years. Extension of services was granted on their
performance and good conduct and discipline. Applicant
Piyadasa was appointed in the year 1974, Wijekoon in the
year 1979 and Panditharathna in the year 1988. They were
absorbed from the Department of Telecommunication to the
Corporation on the same conditions. The applicants were
not in service when the company was formed on 26.09.1996.
His evidence shows that workmen, who were working at the
time the circular dated 30.04.2007 was issued were entitled to
voluntary retirement. The age groups indicated is 28 and 60.
The circular was issued after the termination of services of
the workmen. As such, they were unable to apply to the
company for voluntary retirement.
In the Re-examination in evidence, Witness stated that
the two circulars P36 and P 37 do not apply to the applicants
as these circulars were issued after the termination of their
services. After the decision of the disciplinary committee as
per document R 10, the applicant did not make application to
the LT because they admitted their terminations.
I have examined his evidence. This witness was not
working in the Human Resources Division at the time of the
incident, his evidence was from the connected file. He stated
that the applicants were convicted in the Magistrate Case
No. 28417 and punished. Applicants appealed to the High
Court. The High Court ordered a re-trial.
At the re-trial, the Police did not proceed with the case, as
the prosecution witness engineer Serasinghe died. The
Magistrate discharged the accused applicants. His evidence
shows that the applicants appealed to the Management for
re-instatement. The Disciplinary Board rejected the appeal.
No domestic inquiry was held.  The services of the applicants
were terminated on the original conviction in the Magistrate
Court Case.
Taking into consideration the evidence of this witness. I
am of the view that the action taken by the Disciplinary Board
was wrong. I say this for the reason that the Board should
have considered the appeal by the applicants and held a
Domestic Inquiry and inquired into the facts of the incident
and thereafter taken action necessitated against the
applicants. I am of the view that the disciplinary action to
terminate the services of the applicants on the conviction in
the original Magistrate Court Case was wrong. It is clear in
the evidence, that the High Court set aside the conviction
and ordered a re-trial in the case. This means that the
punishment given by the Magistrate was wiped out. As such,
the applicants were not guilty of the offence relating to the
incident. This witness Rodrigo agreed in evidence that no
domestic inquiry was held, thereafter, on the appeal by the
applicants and the services of the applicants were terminated.
On the evidence of this witness, and taking into consideration
the decision of the High Court. I am of the view that the
disciplinary action taken by the respondent was unjustified.
I am further of the view that the respondent flouted the
principle of natural justice that no man should be condemned
un-heard. I say this for the reason that the respondent failed
to give a hearing to the applicants on the appeal made by
them for re-instatement after the applicants were discharged
in the second Magistrate Court Case and no further action
was taken against them relating to the incident.
In re-examination in evidence witness Rodrigo stated that
after the decision of the disciplinary board, the applicants
did not make application to the Labour Tribunal, because
they admitted their termination, I am of the view that this
statement by witness in evidence is erroneous. I say this for
the reason that the applicants have the right either to seek
relief in the Labour Tribunal or in the alternative to seek relief
in Arbitration in the Industrial Court the applicants chose the
alternative relief. At the outset, they complained to the Labour
Department. The Labour Department held an inquiry and as
the matter in dispute, was not settled it was referred to in
arbitration before the Industrial Court. It is my view that the
applicants rightly sought their alternative relief available to
them in Arbitration before the industrial court. As such, I
reject this statement in evidence given by witness Rodrigo.
I have examined the total evidence in this case, both oral
and documentary along with the written submissions of the
parties. As stated by me earlier in this award, applicant
Piyadasa complied with the order of the D. I. T. and he went
to the stores in Colombo to bring goods to Kandy. He received
no instructions regarding the Cable Drum on his evidence.
I hold that driver Wijerathne received instructions from the
D. I. T. regarding the Cable Drum and he was responsible to
carry out instructions of the D. I. T.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.06.2013
Taking into consideration the evidence of the applicants,
Piyadasa, Panditharathna and Wijekoon Banda I hold that
they acted on the instructions of the D. I. T. Wickramasekara
on the date of the incident, on 07.04.1994, I further hold that
driver Wijerathne, who received specific instructions from
the D. I. T. Wickramasekara, to take the Cable Drum to
Colombo from the Wattegama Stores, along with the D. I. T.
Wickramasekara are responsible for the transportation of the
Cable.
For the reasons stated by earlier in this award, I hold that
the evidence of Kumari Godamanna Senior Administrative
Assistant Engineer of the Respondent, points to the fact that
she was not aware of the circumstances relating to the issue
of the transportation of the Cable Drum on the date of the
incident. She gave evidence only on the procedure for the
issue and transportation of the Cable Drum in terms of the
circular issued by the Respondent, Her evidence does not
prove the quilt of the applicants relating to the incident.
For the reasons given by me earlier in this award, on the
evidence given by Meril Perera, witness for the respondent,
I hold that his demeanuor in evidence shows that he was
evasive in answers given by him in Cross  examination. As
such, I further hold that the he was clueless on the facts in
evidence given by him. There is no value in his evidence to
prove the guilt of the applicants on the facts relating to the
incident.
For the reasons given by me earlier in this award, I hold
that the evidence of Mr. Rodrigo, Manager Human Resources
points to the fact that the disciplinary board decided to
terminate the services of the applicants without holding a
domestic inquiry against the applicants relating to the
incident. The disciplinary board decided to terminate the
services of the applicants purely on the original conviction
in the Magistrate Court. On the evidence, I hold that this
decision was wrong, as the original conviction in the
Magistrate Court was set aside by the High Court, As such,
there was no punishment meted out to the applicants relating
to the incident.
Taking into consideration the evidence as a whole, and on
the balance of evidence, and the preponderance of
probabilities, I hold that the action taken by the Respondent
to terminate the services of the Applicants was wrongful and
unjustifiable. I have now to consider the relief the applicants
are entitled to, for their wrongful and unjustifiable termination
of services.
It is in evidence that applicants Piyadasa was appointed
on 09.01.1974 and served a period of service of 21 years and
06 months.
Applicant Wijekoon Banda was appointed on 02.07.1979
and served a period of service of 26 years.
Applicant Panditharathna was appointed on 08.12.1988
and served a period of service of 6 yeas and 7 months.
I consider the evidence and the facts and circumstances
in this instant case, and I hold that the relief to be granted to
each of the applicants is not re-instatement in service but,
the alternative of compensation in lieu of re-instatement.
I have examined the principles laid down by the Supreme
Court regarding the issue of compensation in the cases of
Ceylon Transport Board Vs Wijerathne 1975 77NLR4 481,
Jayasooriya Vs Sri Lanka State Plantation Corporation (1995)
2SLR 379, Henderson and Company Vs Wijethunga (SC 33/
75 SC Minutes of 21st March, 1975) and Ceylon Planter’s
Society on behalf of C. G . P. Weerasinghe Vs Bogawanthalawa
Plantations LTD  SC Appeal No. 82/2002 - HCA LT 88/96LT-
10/304/93. Applying the principles laid down in these cases
to the particular facts and circumstances in this case. I hold it
just and equitable to award compensation to each of the
workmen on the basis of salary particulars submitted by the
applicants and respondent as set out below :
1. Workman Panditharathna has a period of  unbroken
service of 6 years and 7 months, which is below 10
years. I hold it just and equitable to Award Him five
years salary. His last drawn salary basic Rs. 2020/-
and CLA Rs. 2620/- His consolidated salary is
Rs. 4,640/-
On this basis, he is due Rs. 2,78,400/- as compensation.
2. Workman Piyadasa has a period of unbroken service
of 21 years and six months, which is over ten years. I
hold it just and equitable to award him seven years
salary. His last drawn salary basic Rs. 2685/= CLA -
Rs. 2620/= consolidated salary is Rs. 5,305/=  on this
basis, he is due Rs. 4,45,620/= as compensation.
3. Workman Wijekoon Banda has a period of service of
26 years which is over ten years.
I hold it just and equitable to award him seven years
salary, His last drawn salary basic Rs. 1990/=, CLA - Rs. 2620/=,
consolidated salary is Rs. 4610/= on this basis, he is due
Rs. 3,87,240/= as compensation.
The applicants are entitled to claim statutory dues, if any,
such as arrears of salary, gratuity, EPF, ETF and other fringe
benefits, if any, due to them on their respective contracts of

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.06.2013
employment, direct with the respondent or before the Labour
Department.
Accordingly, I award applicant Piyadasa compensation in
the sum of Rs. 4,45,620 as compensation, Applicant Wijekoon
Banda compensation in the sum of Rs. 3,87,240/-
Applicant Panditharathna compensation in the sum of Rs.
2,78.400/-
The total sum due to the said applicants in compensation
is the sum of Rs. 1,111,260/-
I order the Respondent Sri Lanka Telecom LTD to deposit
the total sum of Rs. 1,111,260/- due to the Applicants in
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.
compensation with the Assistant Commissioner of Labour
Kandy South within two months, from the date of publication
of this award in the Sri Lanka Government Gazette. The said
applicants are entitled to withdraw the sum of money due to
them respectively after the total deposit is made with the
Assistant Commissioner of Labour Kandy South, I hold that
this award is just and equitable and I make the said award
accordingly.
K. R. M. N. Lawrentz,
Arbitrator.
30th April, 2013.
07 - 20