

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.10.2013
w;s úfYI
wxl 1834$15 - 2013 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 28 jeks i÷od - 2013'10'28
No. 1834/15  -MONDAY  OCTOBER  28, 2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
By  Laws
CENTRAL    PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
By Laws of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha
IT is hereby notified that I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in charge of the subject of Local Government in the Central
Province, by virtue of powers vested in me under Subsection (1) of the Section 123 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987
to be read with  Sub Section (1) of Sub Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 (Consequential Provisions) has
approved the under mentioned by-laws framed by Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha, according to power vested in the said
Pradeshiya Sabha under Paragraph (4) of Subsection VII of Section 126 of the said Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to
be read with Subsection I of Section 122 of the said Act, and the by Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area from the
date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH EKANAYAKE,
The Chief Minister of the
Central Province and the Minister in Charge of the
Subject of Local Government.
Office of the Chief Minister,
Central Province Provincial Council,
Kandy,
15th of May 2013.
By-laws relating to obtaining information for levying taxes
1. This by-laws is cited as the by-law relating to obtaining information for levying taxes from all business places
and industries maintained in the Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
2. This by-law is framed for the purpose of making provisions for obtaining periodical returns necessary for
collection of information required for preparing statements of accounts for levying taxes from all business
places and industries maintained within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority area of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya
Sabha.
3. All business and industrial institutions and organizations shall maintain correct and genuine statements, and
reports of accounts according to recognized norms of accounting systems.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.10.2013
2A
4. It is the duty of every person, subject to business tax, to render all information and copies of such information
in respect of all financial transactions and accounts relating to such information when required by the Chairman
or by an officer authorized on that behalf.
5. All business information and periodical returns of financial accounts required from time to time by the Chairman
or by an officer authorized by him, shall be prepared based on recognized norms of accounting systems.
6. All the financial reports and statements of accounts to be forwarded under by-law No. 05 shall be audited and
be certified by a recognized auditor.
7. Any person whoever, who receives a notice forwarded by the secretary or by an authorized officer of the
Pradeshiya Sabha of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha, shall forwarded to the Secretary the information
required by such notice within 14 days of the receipt of the notice.
8. Furnishing false information or failure to forward such information is an offense.
9. When it is required to check the information furnished in the periodical returns called for under by-laws No. 05,
it is lawful for the Chairman or the person authorized by him to visit such place of business or the premises of
the industry and check the authenticity of such information from books and documents therein.
10. Contravention of any one or several or all these by-laws shall be an offence, and when convicted in a court of
law having jurisdiction, the fine imposable and when such contravention is committed continuously and when
convicted, or in the case of a continuous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the Chairman or by
an officer authorized by him, drawing attention for such contravention, the additional maximum fine imposable
for each day of continuing such contravention shall be as defined under Sub-section 2 of Section 122 of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
11. Unless the context otherwise requires in these by-laws -
“Council” means the Pradeshiya Sabha of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha
“Chairman” mean the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha
“Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman to inspect and supervise all activities of any
business place.
12. In the event of any inconsistency in the Sinhala and English texts of these by-laws the Sinhala text shall prevail.
11-408/1
CENTRAL    PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
By Laws of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha
IT is hereby notified that I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in charge of the subject of Local Government in the Central Province, by virtue
of powers vested in me under Subsection (1) of the Section 123 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Sub Section (1) of
Sub Section (1) of Sub Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 (Consequential Provisions) has approved the under mentioned
by-laws farmed by Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha, according to power vested in the said Pradeshiya Sabha under Paragraph (4) o f

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.10.2013
Subsection VII of Section 126 of the said Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Subsection I of Section 122 of the said Act,
and the by Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area from the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
SARATH EKANAYAKE,
The Chief Minister of the
Central Province and the Minister in Charge of the
Subject of Local Government.
Office of the Chief Minister,
Central Province Provincial Council,
Kandy,
15th of May 2013.
By-laws relating to controlling and regulating decorations in the city.
1. This by-laws is cited as the by-law  for controlling and regulating decorations and for charging fees for such
decorations within the Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
2. These by-laws are enforced for the purpose of regulating and controlling decorations to be carried out by the
public within the streets of  Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
3. It is not lawful to make any decoration within any place of the Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area of Pasbage
Korale Pradeshiya Sabha without the written permission of the Chairman.
4. No person shall hereafter decorate any street or other any place within the Council authority area of Pasbage
Korale Pradeshiya Sabha without a permit issued by the Chairman of the  Pradeshiya Sabha authority area of
Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
5. When obtaining a permit for whatever decoration an application under by-law No. 06 shall be forwarded to the
Council at least 48 hours the time of making such decoration.
6. Application shall include :
(a) Nature of the decoration ;
(b) Period of making the decoration ;
(c) Purpose of the decoration ;
(d) Date of the removing the decorations ;
(e) Method of disposing such waste material.
7. After forwarding an application, a permit shall be issued to make decorations subject to provisions of these
by-laws.
8. Polythene paper shall not be used for making decorations under any circumstances.
9. A fee of Rs. 500 shall be charged for every permit to be issued under by these by-laws. A sum of Rs. 5000/- as
severity shall be deposited in the Council for any type of decoration to be carried out under these by-laws.
(A) Every person who receives a permit to make and put up any decoration, when fails to remove them within
24 hours of the date fixed for removal of such decoration, it is lawful for the Council to remove such decoration
and recover the expenses incurred for such removal from the security deposit and refund the balance amount
to the depositor.
10. The conditions stipulated under by-law No. 09 shall not be applicable for funeral decorations.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.10.2013
4A
11. Any decoration to be carried out under the provisions of these by-laws shall not cover or conceal and obstruct
the view of highway, signal posts and name boards found in the area.
12. Contravention of any one or several or all these by-laws shall be an offence, and when convicted in a court of
law having jurisdiction, the fine imposable and when such contravention is committed continuously and when
convicted, or in the case of a continuous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the Chairman or by
an officer authorized by him, drawing attention for such contravention, the additional maximum fine imposable
for each day of continuing such contravention shall be as defined under Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15 of 1987.
13. Unless the context otherwise requires in these by-laws -
“Council” means the Pradeshiya Sabha of Pasbage Korale
“Chairman” mean the Chairman of the  Pradeshiya Sabha of Pasbage Korale
“Decoration” means a temporary device put up from artificial or some indigenous material with the intention of
representing any event or any occasion.
“Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
12. In the event of any inconsistency in the Sinhala and English texts of these by-laws the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
11-408/2
CENTRAL    PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
By Laws of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha
IT is hereby notified that I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in charge of the subject of Local Government in the Central Province, by virtue
of powers vested in me under Subsection (1) of the Section 123 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Sub Section (1) of
Sub Section (1) of Sub Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 (Consequential Provisions) has approved the under mentioned
by-laws framed by Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha, according to power vested in the said Pradeshiya Sabha under Paragraph (4) o f
Subsection VII of Section 126 of the said Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Subsection I of Section 122 of the said Act,
and the by Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area from the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
SARATH EKANAYAKE,
The Chief Minister of the
Central Province and the Minister in Charge of the
Subject of Local Government.
Office of the Chief Minister,
Central  Province Provincial Council,
Kandy,
15th of May 2013.
By-laws relating to Play Grounds
1. This by-laws is cited as the by-law  for controlling  and for the fee laying by-laws of the  Pradeshiya Sabha of
Pasbage Korale .
2. These by-laws are enforced for the purpose of  controlling and regulating  and for levying fees for use of play
grounds within the  Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.10.2013
3. Any persons expecting to make use of a play ground controlled by the  Pradeshiya Sabha of Pasbage Korale
shall apply to the Chairman or to the persons authorized by him for obtaining application form prescribed by the
Council for such purpose.
4. Whenever there is a necessity for reserving a play ground for any special festivals, sports competitions,
exhibition, carnivals, public meetings, or for any activity of similar nature, an application shall be made, according
to the specimen form in the 1st Schedule of these by-laws at least one week before such date of the event.
(a) The Chairman shall consider every application for use of the play ground received at the office, according
to the order of receipt of such applications and every request made for the use of a play ground may be
accepted or refused according to approved conditions and permission may be granted after imposing
any conditions deemed necessary depending on the prevailing circumstances.
(b) The applicant shall be informed without delay the decisions by the Chairman whether to allow or refuse
the request made for the use of the play ground.
(c) In the event of deciding to grant permission for the use of the play ground, the applicant shall be informed
to pay the fees and the amount of security deposit resolved by the Council from time to time and
published in the Government Gazette, before 05 days of such date of the event.
(d) When the aforesaid prescribed fees and the security deposits are paid within the period specified by the
Chairman, a permit for the use of the play ground shall be issued to the applicant.
05. No person shall be allowed to use a play ground for any purpose any time unless he is in possession of a permit
issued in terms of the procedure and rules laid down herein and except for purpose in these by-laws.
06. Refunds :
(a) Unless the Chairman receives a notice of cancellation of the reservation of the play ground at least three
days before such date of reservation, any fee or a part there of shall not be refunded.
(b) When the Chairman is in receipt of a proper notice of cancellation of reservation, expense incurred by the
Council shall be deducted and the balance amount together with the security deposit may be refunded or
else the entire amount of the fee and the security deposit may be refunded. However due to cancellation
of the reservation, if any other application for reservation of the play ground had to be refused, no refund
shall be made other than the security deposit.
07. The purposes and the time of reservation of the play ground :
(a) The permit holder shall not use the play ground for any other purpose except for the purpose for which
the permit is issued. The permit holder shall have the right for use the play ground only during the period
stipulated in the permit.
(b) When the period specified in the permit is lapsed, additional charges resolved and published by the
Council, for the excess period of time using the play ground, shall be paid to the Chairman or to an officer
authorized by him, in addition to charges specified under by-law No. 03 of these by-laws.
(c) Such charges shall also be deducted from the security deposit of the permit holder and he shall produce
the permit to any officer authorized by the holder and he shall produce the permit to any officer authorized
by the Chairman for inspections as and when necessary and when he fails to produce the permit to that
officer, such permit holder shall not be allowed to use the play ground.
08. A permit issued by the Chairman under by-law No. 03 shall not be transferred by the permit holder.
4—PG 1809

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.10.2013
6A
09. Permit holder is bound to protect the property and equipment own by the Council. When any damage loss is
caused to such property and equipment the permit holder shall repair or restore them and be returned to the
proper authority.
10. Whenever a permit holder fails to take actions as specified under by-law No. 09, the Council has the power to
recover the value of damages caused, to be reckoned by the Chairman, from the security deposit.
11. The Council shall not be responsible for any loss or injury caused to the permit holder or to any other party in
the course of activities mentioned in the permit.
12. Contravention of any of the provisions of these by-laws shall be a punishable offence and when convicted in
a court of law having jurisdiction, the maximum fine impossible, and contravention is committed continuously,
and when convicted or in the case of a continuous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the
Chairman or by an authorized officer drawing the attention for such contravention, the maximum additional fine
improvable for each day of continuing such contravention shall respectively be as defined under Sub-section
(2) of Section 153 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
13. Unless the content otherwise requires in these by-law
“Council” means the Pradeshiya Sabha of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha
“Authorized Officer” means an officer authorized by the Chairman.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and English texts of these by-laws, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
11-408/3
CENTRAL    PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
By Laws of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha
IT is hereby notified that I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in charge of the subject of Local Government in the Central Province, by virtue
of powers vested in me under Subsection (1) of the Section 123 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Sub Section (1)  of
Sub Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 (Consequential Provisions) has approved the under mentioned by-laws framed
by Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha, according to power vested in the said Pradeshiya Sabha under Paragraph (4) of Subsection VI I of
Section 126 of the said Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Subsection I of Section 122 of the said Act, and the by Pasbage
Korale Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area from the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
SARATH EKANAYAKE,
The Chief Minister of the
Central Province and the Minister in Charge of the
Subject of Local Government.
Office of the Chief Minister,
Central Province Provincial Council,
Kandy,
15th of May 2013.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.10.2013
By-laws relating to Hair Dressing Centres, Barber Shops and Salons and Beauty Centres.
1. This by-laws is cited as the by-law  for regulating, controlling and supervising hair dressing centres, barber
shops and saloons and beauty centres in the Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya
Sabha.
2. This by law is enforced for the purpose of regulating, supervising and controlling of hair dressing centres,
barber shops and saloons and beauty centres in the Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area of Pasbage Korale
Pradeshiya Sabha.
3. No person shall keep a hair dressing centre, barber's shop and saloon and a beauty centre unless there is a
license issued by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sahba.
4. Every license issued by the Chairman under by-law No. 03 shall be valid until the 31st of December of the year
for which it is issued unless it is cancelled earlier.
5. (a) The Chairman of the  Pradeshiya Sabha shall not issue a license for a hair dressing saloon, barber shop
and saloon and a beauty centre unless the provisions under Section (a) and (b) of these by laws are
complied with the required.
(b) The building or the part of the building where the hair dressing centres, barber shops and saloons and
beauty centres are to be maintained shall be :-
(i) Strongly build and the space set apart for providing services for each customer shall be minimum of
1 : 5 square meters and there shall be adequate space proportionate to the number of customers
who are to be provided services at the same time.
(ii) For any customer who arrive therein in anticipation of services shall provided with adequate space
to be seated conveniently with at least 1 : 5 meters distance from the place where another customer
is being served.
(iii) Interior wall shall be built with strong materials and wall shall be clour washed.
(iv) Roof shall be built of timber or any other strong material and there shall be a ceiling at least at a
height of 2.25 metres and also the ceiling shall be painted in white paint.
(v) Interior shall be paved with cement and glazed tiles and walls and floor joints shall be circular shape
making it easy to clean such places.
(vi) Where the building is not air conditioned, there shall be windows fixed having a space not less than
1/15th of the square of the floor and shall be adequately ventilated.
(vii) Where interior of a building is air conditioned there shall be adequate supply of electricity.
(viii) If water is being used when the customers are served there shall be a wash basin fixed and adequate
pipeline laid to flow out waste water.
(ix) Used waste water shall be allowed to flow into a soakage pit and shall not drain into a common
water way.
(x) There shall be water sealed latrines in the interior or in the premises.
(xi) interior of a house shall not be used for the purpose and at any such instance particular portion
shall be separate from the house.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.10.2013
8A
(c) Hair dressing centres, barber shops and salons and beauty centres :
(i) There shall be a adequate supply of water when the place is kept opened for customers ;
(ii) Th ere shall be an adequate means of getting boiling water for the purpose of sterilizing the
instruments and other appliances used when serving customers and there shall be sufficient amount
of vessels for use in sterilization ;
(iii) There shall be wash basins and soap or liquid soap to wash the hands of hair dressers during the
course of their work ;
(iv) Adequate number of white towels and overalls for the use of customers ;
(v) A movable bin with a close fitting lid for placing hair clippings and other wastes ;
(vi) If electrical appliances are used there shall be at lest one safety plug point for each customer's
table ;
(vii) First aid box with adequate amount of first aid equipments and drugs as prescribed by..................
6. All persons employed in every place licensed under these by laws and coming under this section shall have a
first aid training as recommended by ..... and they shall be give a first aid rehearsal at least once a year.
7. Every person who is in receipt of a license under these by laws shall colour wash at least once a year the
specified places of the licensed place in the manner described under Section (b) of by-law No. 04 herein.
8. Every person who is receipt of a license under these by laws shall wash and clean the floor of the licensed place
at least once a week using disinfectants.
9. Any licensed place under these by laws shall not be used as a place for taking lunch and dinner and not out
sides shall be allowed to use the place for such purpose.
10. Cooking foods or sale of foods or display of foods for sale shall not be carried out inside a licensed place under
these by laws.
(a) A licensee shall not or cause or allow to employ any person suffering from any infectious disease or
contiguous disease of any kind, or any person who has recently been in attendance on any person
suffering from such disease, to enter any licensed place of any purpose of any kind or as an assistant of
any person engaged in service unless the disinfectant period or the incubation period has lapsed.
(b) Any person whosoever shall not be employed or not allow to be employed in any kind of duty in a
licensed place unless such person is dressed in well washed and clean clothing.
(c) It is duty of the licensee to get all the employees of the licensed place to appear for a medical examination
at least once a year.
11. Employees who has served a person suffering from a contiguous disease or infections disease or skin disease,
or any person who has recently attended on any person suffering from such disease -
(a) Shall not be permitted to serve or cause to serve any other customer unless such employee has washed
both his hands with disinfectant substance.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.10.2013
(b) Shall not permitted to use or cause to use any instrument or appliances used for serving a customer, to be
used for serving another customer unless such items have been sterilized or the overalls used as such,
have been washed with disinfectants and soap.
12. Licensee shall ensure all persons employed in the licensed place are :
(a) Employed in service only after a daily bath or a body wash ;
(b) Dressing apparels are clean and in good sanitary conditions ;
(c) Keep the finger nails short and free from dust ;
(d) Wash hands with soap before serving each customer.
13. Licensee shall ensure that in the licensed place :
(a) All instruments are sterilized after each time of using them ;
(b) Wash and clean, and sterilize daily before use all hair brushed and combs ;
(c) Wash all shaving mugs and soap brushes after each time of use by dipping them in hot water
14. Licensee shall sure that the customers when served at the licensed place  -
(a) The hair clippings after hair cutting and shaving and any other waste materials left out are collected by
sweeping or by using a vacuum cleaner or deposit them in a separate bin.
(b) Razor blades are changed in the razor knife used for hair cutting or for shaving
15. It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that, at the end of daily work or at any number of times required, to cause
the hair clippings and other refuse collected and put into the bin are buried in a pit of at least one metre in depth
and shall not allow the hair clipping and other wastes to be blown away in the wind and allow to strew in the
premises of a public place.
16. When it is impossible to dispose hair clipping and other refuse gathered at the licensed place as mentioned
under by law No. 15, action shall be taken to hand over such refuse, to the waste collecting vehicle of the
Pradeshiya Sabha of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha under the waste matter disposal programme of the
Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
17. It is the duty of the licensee to cause the waste bin used at the licensed place, to be cleaned and disinfected
each time after emptying it.
18. No employee in any licensed place shall be permitted to use or cause to use on any customer.
(a) Any styptic pencil, powder puff or ;
(b) Any alum or other material for the purpose of stopping any bleeding unless such alum or other material
is in powder or liquid form.
19. Licensee of any licensed place shall not supply, for the use of any customer any overall which is not clean or
any towel which is not fresh from wash.
20. Licensee shall not carry out any business other than the business in respect of which the licensee is issued
under this section of these by laws, except with written permission of the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
5—PG 1809

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.10.2013
10A
21. Proper time for the Chairman or authorized officer to make inspections under sections of these by laws mean
and include any occasion providing service to customers at any such places, It is lawful for the Chairman or for
an officer authorized by him in writing to enter any such places, at any reasonable time and make an inspection.
22. For the purpose of these by laws unless the context otherwise requires
“Council” means thee Pradeshiya Sabha of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha
“Chairman” means the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha
“Authorized Officer” means an officer authorized by the Chairman of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiysa Sabha,
“Overall” means a covering cloth used to cover the bust of a customer who is served at a licensed place.
23. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and English texts of these by laws the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
11-408/4
CENTRAL    PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
By Laws of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha
IT is hereby notified that I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in charge of the subject of Local Government in the Central Province, by virtue
of powers vested in me under Subsection (1) of the Section 123 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Sub Section (1)  of
Sub Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 (Consequential Provisions) has approved the under mentioned by-laws framed
by Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha, according to power vested in the said Pradeshiya Sabha under Paragraph (4) of Subsection VI I of
Section 126 of the said Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Subsection I of Section 122 of the said Act, and the by Pasbage
Korale Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area from the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
SARATH EKANAYAKE,
The Chief Minister of the
Central Province and the Minister in Charge of the
Subject of Local Government.
Office of the Chief Minister,
Central Province Provincial Council,
Kandy,
15th of May 2013.
By-law  relating to Seizure of Astray Animals
1. This by-laws is cited as the by-law  for prevention of damages caused by astray animals, and for seizure of such
animals and for making provisions for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto within the Pradeshiya
Sabha Authority area of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
2. This by law is enforced for the purpose of seizure of astray animals and for prevention of damages caused by
such animals and to make previsions for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto within the Pradeshiya
Sabha Authority area of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
3. A person specifically authorized by the Chairman may seize and take into his custody astray animal astraying
at a common place of the  Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.10.2013
4. Animals seized under by law No. 02 shall be in charge of a caretaker and shall be brought to an animal shed set
up by the Council as soon as possible.
5. No person whosoever shall obstruct or interfere with any individual who is empowered to carry out such duties
as in by law No. 02 above.
6. the care taken mentioned in this by law shall maintain a register of animals taken into the animal shed and such
register shall be kept as shown in schedule No. 01 herein.
7. The Council shall not be responsible for any harm caused to the animals put in the shed.
8. When releasing an animal put inside the animal shed, such owner or the guardian shall pay to the Pradeshiya
Sabha, the expenses incurred for seizing the animal and fees or, charges for food, any amount spend for
treatment if the animal was ill and reckoned by the Council and obtain a receipt for same.
9. No animal shall be released without a releasing order issued by Chairman or by an officers authorized by the
Chairman and such animal shall be handed over only to the person mentioned in the releasing order.
10. When no owner or guardian come forward to claim an animal or when the prescribed fees have not been paid or
when the seized animal has been kept for not less than 10 days in the animal shed, the ownership of any such
animal shall be with Council and shall sell by auction the animal in anyway determined by the Council to recover
the expenses incurred by the Council.
11. No animal subject to by law No. 10 shall be auctioned for meat.
12. If there is a balance amount of money left, realized from the auction sale, and after settling the expenses incurred
by the Council any remaining amount shall be paid for the owner or guardian of the animal if a request is made
by such person and such a request made after six months shall not be accepted and then such remaining
amount shall be credited to the Council fund.
13. Any persons who contravenes any of the provisions of these by laws shall be guilty of an offence and when
convicted in a court of law having jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposable, and when such contravention is
committed continuously and when convicted, or n the case of continuous contravention, after delivering
written notice drawing the attention for such contravention, the maximum fine imposable for each day of
continuing such contravention under Sub section (02) of Section (122) of the Pradeshiya Act, No. 15 of 19897
as the case may be.
14. For the purpose of these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires :
(a) “Sabha” means Urban Council/Pradeshiya Sabha of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya  Sabha
(b) “Chairman” means Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha
(c) “Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of the Urban Council/Pradeshiya
Sabha of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
(d) “Astray Animals” means an Ox or Cow, Pig, Horse, Phony or a Goat
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and English texts of these by laws the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.10.2013
12A
SCHEDULE NO. 1
Date Particulars of animals No. of Signature of officer Signature of
(kind/colour) animals handing over officer taking over
11-408/5
CENTRAL    PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
By Laws of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha
IT is hereby notified that I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in charge of the subject of Local Government in the Central Province, by virtue
of powers vested in me under Subsection (1) of the Section 123 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Sub Section (1)  of
Sub Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 (Consequential Provisions) has approved the under mentioned by-laws framed
by Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha, according to power vested in the said Pradeshiya Sabha under Paragraph (4) of Subsection VI I of
Section 126 of the said Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Subsection I of Section 122 of the said Act, and the by Pasbage
Korale Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area from the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
SARATH EKANAYAKE,
The Chief Minister of the
Central Province and the Minister in Charge of the
Subject of Local Government.
Office of the Chief Minister,
Central Province Provincial Council,
Kandy,
15th of May 2013.
By-law relating to controlling and regulating bathing places within Pradeshiya Sabha Authority Areas
1. This by-law is cited as the by-law for controlling and regulating public bathing places within the Pradeshiya
Sabha authority areas of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
2. This by-law is enforced for the purpose of controlling and regulating public bathing places within the Pradeshiya
Sabha authority areas of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
3. Proper maintenance of public bathing place shall be carried out by a committee consisting of villages who are
using such places.
4. Such committees shall be registered in the Pradeshiya Sabha of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha. A nominal
membership contribution as determined by the committee shall be collected and be deposited in a savings
account. It is lawful to credit to this account any sum of money to be determined by for council and withdraw
from the account for use and maintaining of the well or bathing places. Such withdrawal shall be made by the
Chairman and the Secretary on approval of the committee.

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.10.2013
5. The committee is responsible for reporting to the Council the expenses and recovery of membership fees once
in six months.
(a) Supplying a bucket and a rope is necessary ;
(b) Clean the bucket by painting once in six months ;
(c) Clean the well of polluted water once in six months ;
(d) Protect the water spring of the well and trees in the surrounding.
6. Any well,, the water of which is used for bathing purposes and is opened to the public shall have a protective
wall of the height not less than 0.6096 metres and be cemented exterior of such wall to a depth of 0.6096 metres
from the surface level of the ground.
7. The floor immediately surrounding every public well shall be sloped and be paved, as to allow the water to flow
down to a built drain preventing any water seeping into the ground.
8. No person of one sex shall bathe, wash or in any way use the water of a public well set a apart for the purpose
of other se 4 by the Council.
9. No person suffering from infections disease or such person who has recently recovered from such disease,
shall bathe, wash or in any way use water at any such well, or at any place set apart by the Council as a bathing
place.
10. Water shall not be taken for drinking purposes from any place whatsoever set apart as a public bathing place.
11. No person shall wash or cause to be washed any cattle, goat, pig, sheep, pony, dog or any other animal in any
place set apart as a public bathing place or shall not enter or drive in to any such bathing for any purpose
whatsoever any such animal.
12. No person shall obey a call of nature or urinate at or near any such public well or at any place set apart as a
public bathing place by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
13. Any well or any place set apart as a public bathing place by the Pradeshiya Sabha shall ton be used for washing
motor vehicles or shall not take water for such purpose.
14. No person shall wash equipment used for spraying agrochemicals at a public well or a place set apart as public
bathing place or shall not use water at such place for diluting agro chemicals.
15. No person shall misbehave at the premises of a public well or at a place close to such well.
16. When bathing from a public well nobody shall get inside the well for bathing and shall not cause anything to
pollute water therein.
17. It is lawful for the Chairman or an officer generally or especially appointed by him for the purpose, to inspect a
public well or a place set apart as a public bathing place by the Pradeshiya Sabha for ascertaining whether such
place is being maintained properly.
18. Contravention of any one or several or all these by-laws shall be an offence, and when convicted in a court of
law having jurisdiction, the fine imposable and when such contravention is committed continuously and when
convicted, or in the case of a continuous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the Chairman or by
an officer authorized by him, drawing attention for such contravention, the additional maximum fine imposable

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.10.2013
14A
for each day of continuing such contravention shall be as defined under Sub-section (2) of Section (122) of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
19. For the purpose of these by-laws unless the context otherwise requires :
“Council” means the Pradeshiya Sabha of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha
“Chairman” mean the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha
20. In the event of any inconsistancy between the Sinhala and English texts of these by-laws the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
11-408/6
CENTRAL    PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
By Laws of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha
IT is hereby notified that I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in charge of the subject of Local Government in the Central Province, by virtue
of powers vested in me under Subsection (1) of the Section 123 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Sub Section (1)  of
Sub Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 (Consequential Provisions) has approved the under mentioned by-laws framed
by Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha, according to power vested in the said Pradeshiya Sabha under Paragraph (4) of Subsection VI I of
Section 126 of the said Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Subsection I of Section 122 of the said Act, and the by Pasbage
Korale Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area from the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
SARATH EKANAYAKE,
The Chief Minister of the
Central Province and the Minister in Charge of the
Subject of Local Government.
Office of the Chief Minister,
Central Province Provincial Council,
Kandy,
15th of May 2013.
By-laws relating to Offensive Traders, Dangerous Trades and Offensive and Dangerous Trades or Business
1. This by-laws is cited as the by-law for regulating and controlling offensive trades, dangerous trades, and
offensive and dangerous trades or business within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority area of Pasbage Korale
Pradeshiya Sabha.
2. These by-laws are enforced for the purpose of making provision for regulating, supervision, controlling,
offensive trades, dangerous trades and offensive and dangerous trades and for levying fees from such business
carried out within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority area of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
3. No person within the Pradeshiya Sabha Authority limits of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha shall conduct or
maintain an offensive trade, dangerous trade or offensive and dangerous trade, shown in the schedules herein,
unless such person is in possession of a license issued by the Chairman.
4. Every license issued shall be valid until the 31st of December of the year for which it is issued unless such
license is cancelled earlier.

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.10.2013
5. No person shall have the right to obtain a license for carrying out an offensive trade or dangerous trade or
offensive and dangerous trade, unless such premise and if any building thereon to be used for the purpose,
do not conform to following conditions :
(a) Premises shall be in good repaired condition and shall have proper ventilation and lighting and every
room when opened, the area of windows fixed shall be less than 1/15 of the floor area of the room.
(b) Height of every part of the walls of every room shall not be less than 2.14 metres and be built with
brocks, rubble stones, kabok bricks, or with cement block and inner walls shall be cement plastered, at
least to a height of 02 metres from the floor, and the remaining portions of the wall shall be lime plastered
and clour washed.
(c) End of every roof shall be 02 metres in height from the floor level ;
(d) Roof shall be covered with come permanent roof material ;
(e) All wood work shall be oil painted or be lime washed ;
(f) The entire floor shall be paved with cement ;
(g) Premises shall be provided with adequate drainage facilities ;
(h) The premises shall have sanitary dut bins and be provided with adequate toilet facilities.
6. Every license holder shall take action to store, all the materials required for maintaining the business, in such
a manner so as to prevent emanation of any bad smell or causing any type of inconvenience.
7. A license holder, when conveying offensive or smelling materials through a public place or on a high road
shall pack such materials in covered and impermeable containers or bags so that no hindrance is caused.
8. Every license holder shall take action to prevent offendable noise steams, fumes or gas emanating while in the
process of production and release to the atmosphere in such manner, without causing any harmful effects or
else cause the exit of such substance by firing or through solid faying equipment.
9. Every license holder shall build adequate drains in the premises where his business if carried out and maintain
them properly by daily washing and cleaning them properly.
10. Every license holder shall build the floor of the premises where the business is to be carried out with some
impermeable material and shall maintain such premises in good repair condition and shall clean daily.
11. Every license holder, during the period when his business is being carried out shall see that the premises are
colour washed annually.
12. Every license holder shall keep all areas and articles including equipment and utensil used in the process of
business activities clean and tidy.
13. Every license holder shall, daily dispose all waste materials getting collected in the premises where the
business is carried out such as sweepings, garbaged, any remanants and by products, if they are not utilized
immediately in the business activities by storing them in covered containers and as directed by the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
14. Every license holder shall clean and empty water used for washing and soaking leather or any other materials,
preventing emanation of any bad odour or smell as and when required.

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.10.2013
16A
15. No license holder shall allow to flow or cause to flow into any river, water way, canal well, lake or any drain,
polluted, filthy and smelling water or any other liquid fluid or shall not pollute a rive, canal waterway, sluice,
well, lake, tank or and water filled open area by washing any offensive substance or by any other means.
16. It shall be lawful, for the Chairman or for any other officer of the Council who is generally or especially
authorized by the Chairman for such purpose, to enter into any premises where an offensive trade or dangerous
trade, or offensive and dangerous trade is carried out and the license holder or the person who is in charge of
such place shall assist them to make such inspection.
17. Whenever at any inspection, if it is detected that a licensed place or premises is not being maintained according
to the provisions stipulated in these by laws, the Chairman has the power to inform the license holder in writing
to take necessary action to regularize such premises conforming to provisions of these by laws within a
specified period of time. The license holder shall take necessary action accordingly and if he fails to do so the
Chairman has the power to cancel the license at such situation.
18. It is the duly of the Chairman, whenever any application forwarded by any person to obtain a license to conduct
any trade or business under these regulations, to issue such license within 30 days of the receipt of such
application, if such place confirm to provisions of these by laws and if such place does not conform to
provisions of these by laws and if such application is to be rejected the applicant shall be informed of the
reasons for doing so.
19. Every license is holder shall make arrangements to display a list of employees, in Sinhala and Tamil Language,
who are employed in the trade or business for which a license issued, together with their names and addresses,
at a conspicuous place of such premises.
20. Every notice issued under these by laws shall be delivered to the owner or to the person is charge of the
premises, depending on such circumstance. If such person is not present, such notice shall be affixed at a
conspicuous place of such business premises. The name of the owner of the place, or the names of the person
using such place need not be mentioned in such notice.
21. In any occasion when a number of business or industries, requiring a license under Sub Section 126 of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, carried out at one place, the license fees for each industry or business shall be levied
separately for such each industry or business.
22. Contravening any of the provisions of these by laws is an offence and when convicted in a court of law having
jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposable, and when such contravention is committed continuously and when
convicted or in the case of continuous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the Chairman or by an
other authorized officer, drawing attention for such contravention, the maximum additional fine imposable for
each day of continuing such contravention shall respectively be as defined under sub section 2 of section 126
of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 as the case may be.
23. Unless the context otherwise required in these by laws :
“License holder” means a person to whom a license is issued under these by laws to carry out any business
“Person” means and includes incorporated or non cooperated board of individuals too.
“Person in charge” means and includes watcher, or guardian, custodian, guardian of property manager or other
person to whom, the administration or management or organization of any business is vested or behalf of
certain person.
“Pradeshiya Sabha” means  Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Chairman” means the Chairman of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha .
“Pradeshiya Sabha area” means Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
“An Authorized Officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha” means officer or officers who are authorized by the Chairman
to enforce these by laws.

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.10.2013
24. In the event of any inconsistancy between the Sinhala and English texts of these by-laws the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
1st Schedule - Offensive Trades
1. Manufacturing manure or chemical manner or storing
2. Leather taming
3. Sale of leather
4. Animal husbandry (for meat, milk or eggs)
5. Keeping a studio
6. Keeping Veterinary Hospital
7. Storing perishable food items and food stuff for sale
8. Storing dry fish, salted fish and jadi exceeding a quantity of 150 kilograms
9. Production of coconut shell charcoal, wood charcoal and storing charcoal
10. Caring tobacco and keeping a store.
11. Manufacture of animal food and keeping a store.
12. Manufacture of poonac and storing over 200 kilograms
13. Manufacturing soap
14. Grinding animal bones and keeping them.
15. Storing new and scrap iron.
16. Keeping a store for metal scrap articles.
17. Manufacture of household furniture and storing.
18. Manufacture of rattan articles.
19. Keeping a carpentry workshop
20. Manufacture of fruit drinks and cyrup.
21. Manufacture of kind of sweet meats.
22. Soaking coconut husks (or decomposing)
23. Manufacture of bursh (except tooth brush)
24. Manufacture of tooth brushed.
25. Collection of toddy.
26. Manufacture of vinegar and storing
27. Keeping a mechanically or manually operated timber depot
28. Storing over 100 liters of painting ink, varnish and distemper paints.
29. Manufacture of soda
30. Production of leather goods.
31. Canning fruits, fish and other food items.
32. Keeping a grinding mill for grinding chillies, coffee, cereals, and spices or flour milling.
33. Manufacture of candles.
34. Manufacture of camphor.
35. Production of writing ink, printing ink and stencil ink.
36. Manufacture of blue for wishing clothes.
37. Production of liquor.
38. Manufacture of scent and powder and keeping a store.
39. Production of school chalk.
40. Storing a quantity of over 50 tyres and tubes.
41. Rebuilding tyres.
42. Keeping a depot for vulcanizing tyres and tubes.
43. Storing over 1000 kilograms of cement.
44. Manufacture of cement articles and asbestos cement articles.
45. Manufacture of plastic goods.
46. Weaving textiles by machines.
47. Sale of bags which contained manure lime powder and other substances after cleaning.
48. Producing of cement bricks by machines.
49. Storing over 250 kilograms of cereals.

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.10.2013
18A
2nd Schedule - Dangerous Trades.
1. Storing quantities of flour, salt or sugar exceeding 750 kilograms for whole sale.
2. Manufacture of ready made garments.
3. Keeping a printing press.
4. Keeping a poultry farm or a poultry yard having over 100 birds.
5. Keeping a hut or a shed for over ten goats and pigs.
6. Storing bricks and tiles.
7. Keeping a firewood depot
8. Blasting or digging granite stones by manual or mechanical means.
9. Manufacture of soft drinks or storing over  100 soft drink bottles.
10. Production of ice cream.
11. Production of cocoanut oil and storing in quantity exceeding 100 litres.
12. Manufacturing of match boxes and storing in quantity exceeding 100 dozens.
13. Production of articles from coir or from any other kind of fibre or storing such items.
14. Storing used garments.
15. Making gold ornaments and repairing them.
16. Sawing timber mechanically.
17. Keeping a factory of malices tool sad equipment.
18. Storing empty bottles and gunnies.
19. Keeping work shop for repairing bicycles and motor cycles.
20. Storing used papers and news papers.
21. Keeping a picture framing centre.
22. Production and storing fire works and crackers.
23. Storing coconut oil and other vegetables oil quantity exceeding 50 liters.
24. Storing frozen fish and meat.
25. Storing timber.
3rd Schedule - Offensive and Dangerous Trades.
1. Curing cinnamon, cloves, cardamom or other kinds of fibre by using chemical substance.
2. Dry cleaning or dying
3. Textile printing or dying.
4. Keeping an elector plating centre.
5. Burning and treating lime stones and dolomite or storing ash line.
6. Keeping a battery charging or repairing centre.
7. Keeping a motor car repairing garage.
8. Maintaining a motor car service station.
9. Keeping a tinkering shed.
10. Keeping a galvanize metal work shop.
11. Keeping gas cylinder store.
12. Production or dispensing ayurvedic and indigenous drugs.
13. Maintaining a plastic or fibre products factory.
14. Storing tea in quantity exceeding 150 kilograms
15. Keeping welding work shop.
16. Maintaining a lathe machine work shop.
17. Maintaining a filling station for patrol, diesel oil or any kind of mineral oil.
18. Manufacturing and storing agro-chemical.
19. Repairing or servicing air conditioners, fridges and deep freezers.
20. Maintaining an electrical work shop or electrical equipment production and repairing work shop.
21. Keeping a milk cooling centre.
11-408/7

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.10.2013
CENTRAL    PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
By Laws of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha
IT is hereby notified that I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in charge of the subject of Local Government in the Central Province, by virtue
of powers vested in me under Subsection (1) of the Section 123 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Sub Section (1)   of
Sub Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 (Consequential Provisions) has approved the under mentioned by-laws framed
by Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha, according to power vested in the said Pradeshiya Sabha under Paragraph (4) of Subsection VI I of
Section 126 of the said Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Subsection I of Section 122 of the said Act, and the by Pasbage
Korale Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area from the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
SARATH EKANAYAKE,
The Chief Minister of the
Central Province and the Minister in Charge of the
Subject of Local Government.
Office of the Chief Minister,
Central Province Provincial Council,
Kandy,
15th of May 2013.
By-law  relating to Controlling and Regulating Animal Farms.
1. This by-laws is cited as the by-law for controlling, administering, supervising and for regulating animal farms
maintained in the Council authority area of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha for producing meats, milk or eggs
or for breeding purposes and for any other activities connected thereto and for levying fees.
2. The purpose of enforcing these by laws is to maintain all animal farms within Pradeshiya Sabha area of Pasbage
Korale Pradeshiya Sabha under good sanitary conditions without causing any damage, loss or inconvenience
to public and to the environment, and to take care of animals, according to recognized standards without
harassing and torturing them.
3. No person shall maintain any animal farm for producing meat, milk or eggs or for breeding except with a license
issued by the Chairman for such purpose.
4. A license issued under by law No. 02 shall be valid till 31st of December for which it is issued unless it is
cancelled earlier.
5. A license fee shall be levied on all licenses issued under Section 147 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987
shall determine the amount of fees to be charged from to time. Amended fees as such shall be effective after
publication in the Gazette.
6. Any person applying for license shall forward the application with the recommendation of the veterinary doctor
of the area. Applications shall be forwarded according to the form shown in the Schedule herein.
7. Every license of an animal farm shall cause all walls and pillars of the farm to be colour washed once a year.
8. Every license of an animal farm shall keep the farm and all buildings therein in good repaired condition and
under sanitary conditions and shall cause to clean and wash daily.
9. Every license of an animal farm shall cause to gather daily, all dung, urine and all other waste from time to time
at short intervals, in order to keep the place clean and under good sanitary conditions and the wastes and urine
so gathered shall be pleaded in a covered vessel made of some permanent impermeable material or place them
in a pit built and  paved with cement.

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.10.2013
20A
10. Every license of an animal farm shall cause to remove at least once a day all wastes, urine or waste water  and
cause to dispose them making no any annoyance to others.
11. Every licensee of an animal farm shall get every animal in the farm, to be examined by the Government
Veterinary doctor once in 03 months and obtain a report and keep it with him and if he has made any
recommendation that shall be carried out immediately.
12. The animal farm shall be so erected, in such a way if in any situation when an animal or animals are afflicted
with any kind of infections, contiguous disease, to keep such animal or animals separated.
13. If any situation occurs as mentioned under by Law No. 13 the veterinary doctor of the area shall be informed.
14. No animal shall be killed or tortured at the place where they are kept or inside the farm.
15. Meat of an animal died owing to any infectious or contiguous disease shall be destroyed preventing human
consumption.
16. It is lawful for the Chairman or for an officer authorized by him in writing to enter any animal farm, at any
reasonable time and make an inspection.
17. Owner or the person in charge of the animal farm shall allow the Chairman or the officer authorized by him in
writing, to make inspections and shall render all assistance to the Chairman or to such officer.
18. Contravention of any of the provisions of  these regulations is an offence and when convicted in a court of
law having jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposable and when such violation is committed continuously and
when convicted or in the case of continuous contravention after delivering a written notice by the Chairman
or by an authorized officer drawing attention for such contravention, the maximum fine imposable for each
day of continuing such contravention, the maximum fine imposable for each day of continuing such
contravention shall be as defined under sub section 02 of section 153 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987.
19. For purpose of these by laws unless the context otherwise requires :
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha,
“Council” means the Pradeshiya Sabha of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Authorized Officer” means an officer authorized by the Chairman.
“Animals” any species or group of animals reared for meat or milk or eggs or for breeding purposes.
20. In the event of any inconsistancy between the Sinhala and English texts of these by-laws the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
1st Schedule (by-law No. 06)
Application for animal farm license
1. Name of applicant :———.
2. Address of applicant :———.
3. Telephone Number  :———.
4. Address of the animal farm :———.
5. District :———.
6. Divisional Secretary area :———.
7. Grama Niladari Wasama/Village  :———.
8. Species of animal reared and the number of animals :———.

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.10.2013
No. Species Number of Purpose of rearing Space separated
animals animals meat  for animals
or any other
1. Cattle
2. Goats
3. Pigs
4. Poultry
9. Description of the route of the from
 ———.
Signature of Applicant.
Date :———.
10. Report of the Environmental Officer of the Council :———.
11. Report of Veterinary Officer of the area :———.
12. Office use :———.
According to above information and report issue of a permit for animal farm is recommended/not recommended
 ———.
Secretary,
Date :———.
Issue for a permit for animal farm is approved/not approved
 ———.
Chairman.
Date :———.
11-408/8
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.