

<!-- page 1 -->

YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Important  notIce  regardIng  acceptance  of  notIces 
for  publIcatIon  In  the  Weekly  “gazette”
Attention is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  7th May,  2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 23rd April, 2021.
electronic transactions act, no. 19 of 2006 - section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2021.
This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
the gazette of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka
Page 
Land Settlement notices :- ... —
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province   ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province   ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province  ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 108
(published by authority)
pa rt  III — lands
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 2"224- 2021 wfm%a,a ui 16 jeks isl=rdod - 2021'04'16
No. 2,224 - FRID Ay,  APRIL 16, 2021
                                
107- B 82222- 353 (04/2021)


<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'04'16
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 16.04.2021
108
miscellaneous notices
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/59626 
Provincial Land Commissioner’s No. : NCG/PLC/L5/
PALU04
notIce made under state land 
regulatIon 21(2)
it is hereby notified that Mr. Ranasinghe Arachchilage Dilhan 
Sanjeewa has requested a state land marked “Lot No. 01” 
depicted in the plan No. F.T.P. 848 (w'k'ms. 848) containing 
an extent of One Acre Three Roods and Twenty Perches  
(01 A: 03R: 20P) situated at the village called “Habarana” 
in the Grama Niladhari Division of No. 590- Kashyapagama 
of Palugaswewa Divisional Secretariat in the District of 
Anuradhapura, for commercial purposes.
02. Boundaries of land requested are given hereunder; 
On the North by : by road reservation and land   
  occupied by Jayantha Dissanayake
On the East by : by road and land claimed by D.M.  
  Dhammika Kumari
On the South by : land reserved for forest
On the West by : land occupied by Jayantha 
  Dissanayake and land reserved  
  for forest
03. The land could be leased out for the required purpose. 
Therefore the government intends to lease out the land subject 
to other standard conditions of the government.
 (a)  Term of the Lease - Thirty years (30) (30 years 
onwards effective from the date approved by the 
Minister
 (b) Annual rent of the Lease - Under circumstances 
where the assessed value of the land is less than Five 
Million (Rs.5,000,000/=) in the year of approved by 
honorable minster, upon the valuation of the Chief 
Assessor, the annual rent will be 2% of the value of 
the land whereas when the land value is greater than 
Five Million (Rs.5,000,000/=) in the year of approved 
by honorable minster, the annual rent will be 4% of the 
value of the land. This rent shall be revised in every 
five years and subject to 20% increase to the lease rent 
finally charged at the preceding five year term.
  Premium.-No annul premium
 (c) The Lessee shall develop this land within 
one year from the date of commencement of  
the lease, to the satisfaction of relevant Divisional 
Secretary.
 (d) The Lessee shall not use this land for any other purpose 
other than commercial purposes.
 (e) This Lease shall also be subject to other special 
conditions imposed by the Divisional Secretary and 
other Institutions.
 (f) Building erected thereof should duly be maintained.
 (g) In case the lessee fails to accomplish the specified 
task of acquistion of the land within stipulated time 
period, relevant actions will be taken to terminate the 
lease agreement.
 (h) Under no circumstances the Lessee shall be permitted 
to under lease or transfer the ownership before expiry 
of five (05) years from the date of approval of the 
Honarable Minister.
 (i) The Lessee shall duly pay the rent of this lease and in 
case of default of payment, the lease agreement shall 
automatically be terminated.
 This land will be leased as per the requistion unless otherwise 
any justifiable submissions shall be produced to me 
before expiry of six (06) weeks from the GazeTTe 
notification.)
 W. M. S. g. Karunarathna,
 Assistant Land Commissioner
 For Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
"Mihikatha Medura",   
Land Secretariat, 1200/6, 
Rajamalwatta Rd., 
Battaramulla.
On the 16th April, 2021.
04-437
PrInteD   at   the   DePartMent   OF   gOVernMent   PrIntIng,   SrI LanKa.