

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
1401
1401
wxl 1"872 - 2014 cQ,s 18 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'07'18
No. 1,872 – FRIDAY , JULY 18, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... ––
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1403
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th August, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th July,
2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.—   Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,871 of 11.07.2014 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
1402
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Dis qualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS.
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
1403
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
DEPARTMENT  OF  EXAMINATIONS,  SRI  LANKA/DEPARTMENT  OF  OFFICIAL  LANGUAGES
Written Examination for Official Languages Proficiency - 2014
APPLICATIONS are invited from the Public Officers for the official languages proficiency examination in terms of the Public Administration
Circular Numbers 03/2007 and 07/2007. In accordance with the Circular No. 07/2007, the semi government officers and teachers who have
to completed the Official Language proficiency within 05 years can also apply for this examination. The decision of the Commiss ioner
General of Examinations regarding the conducting of examination and issuing results will be final.
02. This examination consists of two parts as written and oral. The written examination is conducted by the Department of
Examinations and the candidates should obtain more than 40% marks in written in paper. And the oral examination is conducted by  the
Department of Official Languages for only those who pass the written examination. The details contained in this will be relevant for that
purpose too. (The answer papers of this will not be re-corrected.) If a candidate not qualified the oral test one who passed th e written
examination could sit only for the oral test during three years.
Examination Language Level
1 Written Examination for official languages proficiency Sinhala/Tamil Level III (Basic)
2 Written Examination for official languages proficiency Sinhala/Tamil Level II (Intermediate)
3 Written Examination for official languages proficiency Sinhala/Tamil Level I (Advance)
Note :
* A candidate can sit for the examination in the relevant category having decided the Level to which a candidate belongs in
accordance with the above mentioned circulars.
* A candidate is eligible to apply only for one level of a particular language.
* Annexure 01 contains the information about the number of papers to which one should sit and the relevant time duration
for each level of language proficiency.
03. Syllabus relevant to these Written Examinations, Specimen application form and other relevant information can be obtained
from the website of the Department of Official Languages 
www.languagesdept.gov.lk. The results will not be informed personally to each
candidate and results will be released through the above website only. (The result can only be checked by the examination numbe r and
therefore it will be advisable to note down the examination number).
04. Examination centers will be established in each province in the island for the written examination and the list of towns and
town numbers are indicated in Annexure 01. If the number of candidates insufficient for any examination center, such examination center
will be cancelled and the candidates will be referred to the next examination center according to their second/third choice. The district of
the town in which the candidate sit for the written examination will be applied for the oral examination too. Therefore the tow n/towns
which have been applied as examination centers by the candidates will not be allowed to change later.
05. The application should be in the form of the specimen appended to this notification with the recommendation of the Head
of the institution and his/her official seal should be sent by registered post to reach the Commissioner General of Examination, Organization
and Foreign Examination Branch, Department of Examinations, Palawatta, Battaramulla on or before August 18th 2014. The title "Official
Language proficiency Examination 2014" should clearly be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope which the applicat ion is
enclosed.
06. Application form should be prepared using both sides of sheet including section 01 to 06 in the first page and the rest in
second and the application should be filled by the applicant himself in clear hand writing. The language that should be obtaine d
proficiency mentioned correctly by relevant number in the block that mentioned above the application. And also mentioned obtain ing
level of proficiency by relevant number in the block. Any reason should not give permission to change the language to obtaining level or
proficiency. (The officers in each services should be apply the proficiency level according to the Public Administration Circul ar 3/2007
and 7/2007 for the language proficiency.)
07. Applications which do not conform to the specimen, contradictory of instructions, incomplete and received after the closing
date will be rejected. When the applications are prepared, the name which is mentioned in the heading should be written in Engl ish in
addition to Sinhala in Sinhala application forms and in English in addition to Tamil in Tamil application forms. It will be advisable for you
to keep a photocopy of the application. The language and the level applied will not be allowed to change later.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
1404
08. An examination fee will not be charged from the candidates who sit for any level of Proficiency Examination for the first
time. A fee of Rs. 300 will be charged from the other candidates. These candidates should pay their fees to any District or Div isional
Secretariat in the Island and the receipt obtained to the candidate's name should be pasted securely in the relevant cage of the application.
THe exam fees should be credited to the Revenue Head “20.03.99.00 - Other Revenue ”.
09. The Department of examination will publish a gazette notification informing on the release of admissions. The candidates
who do not receive the admission even after 02, 03 days following the gazette notification should inform the Department of Examinations
as mentioned in the notification. It will be much effective to inform the Department of Examination with your name, address, Na tional
Identity Card Number, certified copies of the application form and the payment receipt, the receipt of registering and your req uest letter
including a fax number to forward your admission card in case you are resided at outstations, at your hand.
10. The issuing of an admission card to a candidate should not be treated as a proof that he or she has fulfilled the required
qualification to sit for the examination.
11. In the examinations conducted by Department of Examination, the National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
Registration of Persons and valid passport are only acceptable as the documents of identification at the examination centre. In  case of a
candidate who failed to prove their identity, but has sat for the examination, results will be issued for such candidates only after the
confirmation of their identities by an inquiry.
12. The post and the place of service of a candidate at the time of the examination are relevant to all purposes in respect of the
examination and any changes regarding that not will be considered after the sending of application.
13. The decision of the Commissioner General of Examination and/or Commissioner of Official Languages regarding the matters
not mentioned above, relevant to the written examination will be final.
14. The candidates are bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations in respect of
the conducting of written examination. If a candidate violates such rules or regulations, he or she will have to undergo a puni shment
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
15. For further details please contact 011-2889506, 011-2888934 - 220. Issue relating to admission should be directed to the
Department of Examinations. Tele. No. : 011-2785230, 011-2177075.
J. D. C. JAYASINGHE,
Commissioner of Official Languages.
Department of Official Languages,
“Bhasha Mandiraya ”,
No. 341/7, Kotte Road,
Rajagiriya,
27th June, 2014.
For office use only
..........................................
DEPARTMENT OF EXAMINATIONS SRI LANKA/DEPARTMENT OF OFFICIAL LANGUAGES
(Expecting towns and town number sit for the examination relevant to annexure 01 of the Notice)
W
RITTEN EXAMINATION FOR OFFICIAL LANGUAGES PROFICIENCY - 2014 SINHALA/TAMIL LEVEL - I, II, III
Town Town No.
1
2
3
Language Applied : Level Applied :
Sinhala - 2 Level I (Advance Level) - 1
Tamil - 3 Level II (Intermediates Level) - 2
(Relevant number of the language to be obtained the Level III (Introductory Level) - 3
proficiency should indicate in the cage) (Relevant number of the level to be obtained the proficiency should
indicate in the cage)
The language in which the proficiency should be obtained and the level of proficiency and applied for should compulsorily be entered and
no changes are allowed thereafter under any circumstance.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
1405
01. Name of the Applicant :–––––––––––.
(In English capital letters) ( E.g.– GAMINI H. W.)
02. Name denoted by Initials :–––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
03. Address :
(i) Official Address :–––––––––––.
(In English capital letters) (Admission card, result and
certificate will be sent to this address)
(ii) Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
04. District :
(i) District which include the service center :––––––––––.
(In Engilsh capital letters)
(ii) District No. :
(According to Annexure 01)
05. Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
06. National Identity Card No. :
07. Telephone No. :
08. Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
09. Your Post :
(i) Full name of the designation/name of the service :
––––––––––.
(ii) The service which the Post belongs to :
Public Service - 1
Provincial Public Service - 2
Semi government - 3
Other - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
10. Did you sit for the Language Proficiency Examinations which
are held before relevant to this level ? Yes/No, If yes :––––––.
Index No. :––––––––––. Exam Date :––––––––––.
11. Details of the receipt : If paid the examination fees :
(i) Name of the Institute which you have paid the
examination fees :––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt number and date :––––––––––.
If you have paid the examination fees, according to the
paragraph No. 08 of the Gazette Notification. The receipt
should be affixed here. It will be advisable to
keep a copy with you.
I hereby certify that the above particulars are true and I haven't
applied for this examination or any other level in respect of this
language and, I further declare that I shall abide by the rules and
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
and/or Commissioner of Official Languages in respect of this
examination.
Name :––––––––––.
Signature :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
(Signature should be placed in the presence
of the Head of the Institution).
Certificate of the Head of the Institution
I hereby certify that the above applicant is employed in this
office and that the particulars in paragraphs 1 to 11 in this application
are true. He/She placed his/her signature in my presence on
..................
––––––––––––––,
Signature.
Date :––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Official Frank :––––––––––.
Annexure 01
EXAMINA TION CENTER OF DISTRICT/TOWN AND DISTRICT NO.
Province District Dis trict No./
Town No.
Western Province Colombo 1
Gampaha 2
Kalutara 3
North Western Province Kurunegala 4
Chilaw 5
Southern Province Galle 6
Matara 7
Hambantota 8
Sabaragamuwa Province Rathnapura 9
Kegalle 10
B2 - B80857

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
1406
Uva Province Badulla 11
Monaragala 12
Central Province Kandy 13
Matale 14
Nuwara-Eliya 15
North Central Province Anuradhapura 16
Polonnaruwa 17
Province District District No./
Town No.
Northern Province Jaffna 18
Vavuniya 19
Mullativu 20
Kilinochchi 21
Mannar 22
Eastern Province Trincomalee 23
Batticaloa 24
Ampara 25
EXAMINATION PROCEDURE
Medium Level Number of Time Minimum mark to be
Papers obtained for a pass
Written Oral
Sinhala Level III 01 paper 02 hours 16/40 24/60
Sinhala Level II 01 paper 03 hours
02 paper 03 hours 28/70 12/30
Sinhala Level I 01 paper 03 hours
02 paper 03 hours 28/70 12/30
Tamil Level III 01 paper 02 hours 16/40 24/60
Tamil Level II 01 paper 03 hours
02 paper 03 hours 28/70 12/30
Tamil Level I 01 paper 03 hours
02 paper 03 hours 28/70 12/30
07–451
Province District Di strict No./
Town No.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.