

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2293$60 - 2022 wf.daia;= ui 19 jeks isl=rdod - 2022'08'19
No. 2293/60  -  friday,  august  19 ,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1a
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
SRI  LANKA  ACCOUNTING  AND  AUDITING  STANDARDS  ACT,  No.  15 OF 1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
By virtue of the powers vested in the institute of Chartered accountants of sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “institute”), 
the Institute has adopted the Amendments SLFRS 17 - Insurance Contracts effective for annual reporting periods beginning 
on or after 01 January 2025 published herewith for the purpose of the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards, Act,  
No. 15 of 1995. This Standard shall be effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 01 January 2025. 
By Order of the Council, 
 r. s. Anoma Priyadarshani,
  secretary. 
the institute of Chartered accountants of sri Lanka,
No. 30a, 
Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
19th august, 2022.
1A - PG 5962 - 00 (09/2022)


<!-- page 2 -->

2A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
Amendments to SLFRS 17 
 
Amendments to SLFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 
 
Paragraphs 4 and 7 are amended, and paragraph 8A is added. New text is underlined and deleted text is 
struck through. 
 
Scope 
 
 …. 
 
4 All references in SLFRS 17 to insurance contracts also apply to: 
(a) reinsurance contracts held, except: 
(i) ...   
(ii) as described in paragraphs 60–70A70. 
(b) ... 
 ... 
 
7 An entity shall not apply SLFRS 17 to:  
...  
 
(h) credit card contracts, or similar contracts that provide credit or payment arrangements, that meet 
the definition of an insurance contract if, and only if, the entity does not reflect an assessment of 
the insurance risk associated with an individual customer in setting the price of the contract with 
that customer (see SLFRS 9 and other applicable SLFRS Standards). However, if, and only if, 
SLFRS 9 requires an entity to separate an insurance coverage component (see paragraph 
2.1(e)(iv) of SLFRS 9) that is embedded in such a contract, the entity shall apply SLFRS 17 to 
that component. 
... 
 
8A Some contracts meet the definition of an insurance contract but limit the compensation for insured events 
to the amount otherwise required to settle the policyholder's obligation created by the contract (for 
example, loans with death waivers). An entity shall choose to apply either SLFRS 17 or SLFRS 9 to such 
contracts that it issues unless such contracts are excluded from the scope of SLFRS 17 by paragraph 7. 
The entity shall make that choice for each portfolio of insurance contracts , and the choice for ea ch 
portfolio is irrevocable. 
 
Paragraphs 10‒12 are amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through.  
 
  

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    3A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
Separating components from an insurance contract (paragraphs B31–B35) 
10 An insurance contract may contain one or more components that would be within the scope of another 
Standard if they were separate contracts. For example, an insurance contract may include an investment 
component or a service component for services other than insurance contract services (or both). An entity 
shall apply paragraphs 11–13 to identify and account for the components of the contract. 
 
11 An entity shall: 
(a) ... 
(b) separate from a host insurance contract an investment component if, and only if, that investment 
component is distinct (see paragraphs B31–B32). The entity shall apply SLFRS 9 to account for 
the separated investment component  unless it is an investment contract with discretionary 
participation features within the scope of SLFRS 17 (see paragraph 3(c)). 
 
12 After applying paragraph 11 to separate any cash flows related to embedded derivatives and distinct 
investment components, an entity shall separate from the host insurance contract any promise to transfer  
to a policyholder  distinct goods or  non‑insurance services other than insurance contract services  to a 
policyholder, applying paragraph 7 of SLFRS 15. The entity shall account for such promises applying 
SLFRS 15. In applying paragraph 7 of SLFRS 15 to separate the promise, the entity shall apply paragraphs 
B33–B35 of SLFRS 17 and, on initial recognition, shall:  
(a) apply SLFRS 15 to attribute the cash inflows between the insurance component and any promises 
to provide distinct goods or non‑insurance services other than insurance contract services; and 
(b) attribute the cash outflows between the insurance component and any promised goods or  
non‑insurance services other than insurance contract services, accounted for applying SLFRS 15 
so that: 
...  
 ... 
 
Paragraphs 19 and 24 are amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through.  
 
 
Level of aggregation of insurance contracts 
 
... 
 
19 For contracts issued to which an entity does not apply the premium allocation approach (see paragraphs 
53–5459), an entity shall assess whether contracts that are not onerous at initial recognition have no 
significant possibility of becoming onerous:  
...  
 
24 An entity shall apply the recognition and measurement requirements of SLFRS 17 to the groups of 
contracts issued determined by applying paragraphs 14 –23. An entity shall establish the groups at initial 
recognition and add contracts to the groups applying paragraph 28. , and The entity shall not reassess the 
composition of the groups subsequently. To measure a group of contracts, an entity may estimate the 

<!-- page 4 -->

4A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
fulfilment cash flows at a higher level of aggregation than t he group or portfolio, provided the entity is 
able to include the appropriate fulfilment cash flows in the measurement of the group, applying paragraphs 
32(a), 40(a)(i) and 40(b), by allocating such estimates to groups of contracts.  
 
Paragraph 27 is delet ed and paragraph 28 is amended. Paragraphs 28A –28F and the heading above 
paragraph 28A are added. Paragraph 25 is not amended, but is included for ease of reference. New text 
is underlined and deleted text is struck through. 
 
Recognition 
25 An entity shall recognise a group of insurance contracts it issues from the earliest of the following:  
(a) the beginning of the coverage period of the group of contracts; 
(b) the date when the first payment from a policyholder in the group becomes due; and  
(c) for a group of onerous contracts, when the group becomes onerous. 
 ... 
 
27 [Deleted]An entity shall recognise an asset or liability for any insurance acquisition cash flows  relating 
to a group of issued insurance contracts that the entity pays or receives before the group is recognised, 
unless it chooses to recognise them as expenses or income applying paragraph 59(a). An entity shall 
derecognise the asset or liability resul ting from such insurance acquisition cash flows when the group of 
insurance contracts to which the cash flows are allocated is recognised (see paragraph 38(b)).  
 
28 In recognising a group of insurance contracts in a reporting period, an entity shall includ e only contracts 
that individually meet one of the criteria set out in paragraph 25 issued by the end of the reporting period  
and shall make estimates for the discount rates at the date of initial recognition (see paragraph B73) and 
the coverage units provi ded in the reporting period (see paragraph B119). An entity may include issue 
more contracts in the group after the end of a reporting period, subject to paragraphs 14–22paragraph 22. 
An entity shall add a contract the contracts to the group in the reporti ng period in which that contract 
meets one of the criteria set out in paragraph 25the contracts are issued. This may result in a change to the 
determination of the discount rates at the date of initial recognition applying paragraph B73. An entity 
shall apply the revised rates from the start of the reporting period in which the new contracts are added to 
the group. 
 
Insurance acquisition cash flows (paragraphs B35A‒B35D) 
 
28A An entity shall allocate insurance acquisition cash flows  to groups of insurance c ontracts using a 
systematic and rational method applying paragraphs B35A‒B35B, unless it chooses to recognise them 
as expenses applying paragraph 59(a). 
28B An entity not applying paragraph 59(a) shall recognise as an asset insurance acquisition cash flows paid 
(or insurance acquisition cash flows for which a liability has been recognised applying another SLFRS 
Standard) before the related group of insurance contracts is recognised. An entity shall recognise such  
an asset for each related group of insurance contracts. 
28C An entity shall derecognise an asset for insurance acquisition cash flows when the insurance acquisition 
cash flows are included in the measurement of the related group of insurance contracts app lying 
paragraph 38(c)(i) or paragraph 55(a)(iii). 
 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    5A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
28D If paragraph 28 applies, an entity shall apply paragraphs 28B‒28C in accordance with paragraph B35C. 
28E At the end of each reporting period, an entity shall assess the recoverability of an asset for i nsurance 
acquisition cash flows if facts and circumstances indicate the asset may be impaired (see paragraph 
B35D). If entity identifies an impairment loss, the entity shall adjust the carrying amount of the asset 
and recognise the impairment loss in profit or loss. 
28F An entity shall recognise in profit or loss a reversal of some or all of an impairment loss previously 
recognised applying paragraph 28E and increase the carrying amount of the asset, to the extent that the 
impairment conditions no longer exist or have improved. 
 
Paragraph 29 and the heading above it are amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck 
through. 
 
Measurement (paragraphs B36–B119FB119) 
 
29 An entity shall apply paragraphs 30–52 to all groups of insurance contracts within the scope of SLFRS 
17, with the following exceptions: 
(a) ... 
(b) for groups of reinsurance contracts held, an entity shall apply paragraphs 32 –46 as required by 
paragraphs 63–70A70. ParagraphParagraphs 45 (on insurance contracts with direct participation 
features) and paragraphs 47–52 (on onerous contracts) do not apply to groups of reinsurance 
contracts held. 
….. 
   
The heading for paragraph 32 is amended. Paragraphs 34 and 38 –39 are amended. New text is 
underlined and deleted text is struck through. 
 
 
Measurement on initial recognition (paragraphs B36–B95FB95) 
... 
Estimates of future cash flows (paragraphs B36–B71) 
... 
 
34 Cash flows are within the boundary of an insurance contract if they arise from substantive rights and 
obligations that exist during the reporting period in which the entity can compel the policyholder to pay 
the premiums or in which the entity has a substantive obligation to provide the policyholder with  
insurance contract services (see paragraphs B61 –B71). A substantive o bligation to provide  insurance 
contract services ends when:  
(a) ... 
(b) both of the following criteria are satisfied: 
(i) ... 

<!-- page 6 -->

6A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
(ii) the pricing of the premiums for coverage up to the date when the risks are reassessed does 
not take into account the risks that relate to periods after the reassessment date. 
... 
 
Contractual service margin 
38 The contractual service margin is a component of the asset or liability for the group of insurance 
contracts that represents the unearned profit the entity wi ll recognise as it provides  insurance 
contract services in the future. An entity shall measure the contractual service margin on initial 
recognition of a group of insurance contracts at an amount that, unless paragraph 47 (on onerous 
contracts) or paragraph B123A (on insurance revenue relating to paragraph 38(c)(ii))  applies, 
results in no income or expenses arising from:  
(a) ... 
(b) any cash flows arising from the contracts in the group at that date;  
(c)(b) the derecognition at the date of initial recognition of: 
(i) any asset  or liability recognised  for insurance acquisition cash flows applying 
paragraph 28C27; and 
(ii) any other asset or liability previously recognised for cash flows related to the group 
of contracts as specified in paragraph B66A. 
(c) any cash flows arising from the contracts in the group at that date. 
 
39 For insurance contracts acquired in a transfer of insurance contracts or  in a business combination within the 
scope of SLFRS 3, an entity shall apply paragraph 38 in accordance with paragraphs B93–B95FB95. 
 
Paragraphs 44–45 and the heading above them are amended. New text is underlined and deleted 
text is struck through. 
 
Contractual service margin (paragraphs B96–B119BB119) 
... 
 
44 For insurance contracts without direct participatio n features, the carrying amount of the contractual 
service margin of a group of contracts at the end of the reporting period equals the carrying amount at 
the start of the reporting period adjusted for: 
...  
(e) the amount recognised as insurance revenue b ecause of the transfer of  insurance contract  
services in the period, determined by the allocation of the contractual service margin remaining 
at the end of the reporting period (before any allocation) over the current and remaining 
coverage period applying paragraph B119. 
 
45 For insurance contracts  with direct participation features (see paragraphs B101 –B118), the carrying 
amount of the contractual service margin of a group of contracts at the end of the reporting period equals 
the carrying amount at the start of the reporting period adjusted for th e amounts specified in 
subparagraphs (a)–(e) below. An entity is not required to identify these adjustments separately. Instead, 
a combined amount may be determined for some, or all, of the adjustments. The adjustments are:  
(a) ... 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    7A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
(b) the change in the amount of the  entity’s share of the  change in the fair value of the underlying 
items (see paragraph B104(b)(i)), except to the extent that: 
(i) ...  
(ii) the decrease in the amount of the  entity’s share of  a decrease in  the fair value of the  
underlying items exceeds the carrying amount of the contractual service margin, giving 
rise to a loss (see paragraph 48); or 
(iii) the increase in the amount of the  entity’s share of  an increase in  the fair value of the 
underlying items reverses the amount in (ii). 
...  
(e) the amount recognised as insurance revenue because of the transfer of insurance contract services 
in the period, determined by the allocation of the contractual service margin remaining at the end 
of the reporting period (before any all ocation) over the current and remaining coverage period , 
applying paragraph B119. 
 ... 
 
Paragraphs 47–48 and 50 are amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through.  
 
Onerous contracts 
47 An insurance contract is onerous at the date of i nitial recognition if the fulfilment cash flows allocated 
to the contract, any previously recognised  insurance acquisition cash flows and any cash flows arising 
from the contract at the date of initial recognition in total are a net outflow. Applying paragraph 16(a), 
an entity shall group such contracts separately from contracts that are not onerous. To the extent  that 
paragraph 17 applies, an entity may identify the group of onerous contracts by measuring a set of 
contracts rather than individual contracts. An entity shall recognise a loss in profit or loss for the net 
outflow for the group of onerous contracts, resulting in the carrying amount of the liability for the group 
being equal to the fulfilment cash flows and the contractual service margin of the group being zero.  
 
48 A group of insurance contracts becomes onerous (or more onerous) on subsequent measurement if the 
following amounts exceed the carrying amount of the contractual service margin:  
(a) unfavourable changes relating to future service in the fulfilment cash flows allocated to the group, 
arising from changes in estimates of future cash flo ws and the risk adjustment for non -financial 
riskrelating to future service; and 
(b) for a group of insurance contracts with direct participation features, the  decrease in the amount 
of the entity’s share of a decrease in the fair value of the underlying items. 
Applying paragraphs 44(c)(i), 45(b)(ii) and 45(c)(ii), an entity shall recognise a loss in profit or loss to 
the extent of that excess. 
 …. 
 
50 After an entity has recognised a loss on an onerous group of insurance contracts, it shall allocate:  
(a) ... 
(b) solely to the loss component until that component is reduced to zero: 

<!-- page 8 -->

8A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
(i) any subsequent decrease relating to future service in fulfilment cash flows allocated to the 
group arising from changes in estimates of future cash flows and the risk adjustme nt for 
non-financial risk; relating to future service and 
(ii) any subsequent increases in the  amount of the  entity’s share ofin the fair value of the 
underlying items solely to the loss component until that component is reduced to zero . 
Applying paragraph s 44(c)(ii), 45(b)(iii) and 45(c)(iii), an entity shall adjust the contractual 
service margin only for the excess of the decrease over the amount allocated to the loss 
component. 
 ... 
 
Paragraphs 53 and 55–56 are amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through. 
 
Premium allocation approach 
53 An entity may simplify the measurement of a group of insurance contracts using the premium allocation 
approach set out in paragraphs 55–59 if, and only if, at the inception of the group: 
(a) ... 
(b) the coverage period of each contract in the group (including insurance contract servicescoverage 
arising from all premiums within the contract boundary determined at that date applying 
paragraph 34) is one year or less. 
… 
 
55 Using the premium allocation approach, an entity shall measure the liability for remaining coverage as 
follows:  
(a) on initial recognition, the carrying amount of the liability is:  
...  
(iii) plus or minus any amount arising from the derecognition at that date of: 
1. any asset for insurance acquisition cash flows applying paragraph 28C; and  the asset 
or liability recognised for insurance acquisition cash flows applying paragraph 27.  
2. any other asset or liability previously recognised  for cash flows related to the group 
of contracts as specified in paragraph B66A. 
(b) at the end of each subsequent reporting period, the carrying amount of the liability is the carrying 
amount at the start of the reporting period:  
...  
(v) minus the amount recognised as insurance revenue for services coverage provided in that 
period (see paragraph B126); and 
(vi) ... 
 
56 If insurance contracts in the group have a significant financing component, an entity shall adjust the 
carrying amount of the liability for remaining coverage to reflect the time value of money and the effect 
of financial risk using the discount rates specified in paragraph 36, as determined on initial recognition. 
The entity is not required to adjust the carrying amount of the liability for remaining coverage to reflect 
the time value of money and the effect of financial risk if, at initial recognition, the entity expects that 
the time between providing each part of the servicescoverage and the related premium due date is no 
more than a year. 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    9A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
... 
 
Paragraphs 60, 62, 65–66 and 69 are amended, paragraph 62 is bifurcated creating new paragraph 
62A, paragraph 65 is bifurcated creating new paragraph 65A, paragraphs 66A –66B and 70A are 
added. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through. 
 
Reinsurance contracts held 
60 The requirements in SLFRS 17 are modified for reinsurance contracts held, as set out in paragraphs 61–
70A70. 
 ... 
Recognition 
62 Instead of applying paragraph 25, an entity shall recognise  a group of reinsurance contracts held from 
the earlier of the following:  
(a) the beginning of the coverage period of the group of reinsurance contracts held; and  
(b) the date the entity recognises an onerous group of underlying insurance contracts applyi ng 
paragraph 25(c), if the entity entered into the related reinsurance contract held in the group of 
reinsurance contracts held at or before that date. 
62A Notwithstanding paragraph 62(a), an entity shall delay the recognition of a group of reinsurance 
contracts held that provide proportionate coverage until the date that any underlying insurance contract 
is initially recognised, if that date is later than the beginning of the coverage period of the group of 
reinsurance contracts held. 
62 Instead of applying paragraph 25, an entity shall recognise a group of reinsurance contracts held:  
(a) if the reinsurance contracts held provide proportionate coverage —at the beginning of the 
coverage period of the group of reinsurance contracts held or at the initial recog nition of any 
underlying contract, whichever is the later; and 
(b) in all other cases —from the beginning of the coverage period of the group of reinsurance 
contracts held. 
 
Measurement 
... 
65 The requirements of paragraph 38 that relate to determining the contractual service margin on initial 
recognition are modified to reflect the fact that for a group of reinsurance contracts held there is no 
unearned profit but instead a net cost or net gain on purchasing the reinsurance. Hence, unless paragraph 
65A applies, on initial recognition: (a) the entity shall recognise any net cost or net gain on purchasing 
the group of reinsurance contracts held as a contractual service margin measured at an amount equal to 
the sum of: 
(a) the fulfilment cash flows;, 

<!-- page 10 -->

10A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
(b) the amount derecognised at that date of any asset or liability previously recognised for cash flows 
related to the group of reinsurance contracts held;, and 
(c) any cash flows arising at that date; and 
(d) any income recognised in profit or loss applying paragraph 66A.; unless 
65A If (b) the net cost of purchasing reinsurance coverage relates to events that occurred before the purchase 
of the group of reinsurance contracts held, in which case, notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph 
B5, the entity shall recognise such a cost immediately in profit or loss as an expense.  
66 Instead of applying paragraph 44, an entity shall measure the contractual service margin at the end of 
the reporting period for a group of reinsurance contracts held as the carrying amo unt determined at the 
start of the reporting period, adjusted for: 
...  
(ba) income recognised in profit or loss in the reporting period applying paragraph 66A;  
(bb) reversals of a loss -recovery component recognised applying paragraph 66B (see paragraph 
B119F) to the extent those reversals are not changes in the fulfilment cash flows of the group of 
reinsurance contracts held; 
(c) changes in the fulfilment cash flows , measured at the discount rates specified in paragraph 
B72(c), to the extent that the change relates to future service, unless: 
(i) relates to future service; unless 
(i)(ii) the change results from a change in fulfilment cash flows allocated to a group of 
underlying insurance contracts that does not adjust the contractual service margin for 
the group of underlying insurance contracts; or. 
(ii) the change results from applying paragraphs 57‒58 (on onerous contracts), if the entity 
measures a group of underlying insurance contracts applying the premium allocation 
approach. 
...  
 
66A An entity shall adjust the contractual service margin of a group of reinsurance contracts held, and as a 
result recognise income, when the entity recognises a loss on initial recognition of an onerous group of 
underlying insurance contracts or on addition of onerous underlying insurance contracts to a group (see 
paragraphs B119C‒B119E). 
66B An entity shall establish (or adjust) a loss -recovery component of the asset for remaining coverage for 
a group of reinsurance contracts held depicting the recovery of los ses recognised applying paragraphs 
66(c)(i)‒(ii) and 66A. The loss-recovery component determines the amounts that are presented in profit 
or loss as reversals of recoveries of losses from reinsurance contracts held and are consequently 
excluded from the allocation of premiums paid to the reinsurer (see paragraph B119F).  
 ... 
Premium allocation approach for reinsurance contracts held 
69 An entity may use the premium allocation approach set out in paragraphs 55 –56 and 59 (adapted to 
reflect the features of reinsurance contracts held that differ from insurance contracts issued, for example 
the generation of expenses or reduction in expenses rather than revenue) to simplify the measurement 
of a group of reinsurance contracts held, if at the inception of the group: 
(a) ... 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    11A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
(b) the coverage period of each contract in the group of reinsurance contracts held (including  
insurance coverage from all premiums within the contract boundary determined at that date 
applying paragraph 34) is one year or less. 
 ... 
 
70A If an entity measures a group of reinsurance contracts held applying the premium allocation approach, 
the entity shall apply paragraph 66A by adjusting the carrying amount of the asset for remaining 
coverage instead of adjusting the contractual service margin. 
 
Paragraph 71 is amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through.  
 
Investment contracts with discretionary participation features 
71 An investment contract with discretionary participation features does not include a transfer of 
significant insurance risk. Consequently, the requirements in SLFRS 17 for insurance contracts are 
modified for investment contracts with discretionary participation features as follows:  
(a) the date of initial recognition (see paragraphs 25 and 28 paragraph 25 ) is the date the entity 
becomes party to the contract. 
... 
 
Paragraphs 72 and 76 are amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through.  
 
Modification and derecognition 
Modification of an insurance contract 
72 If the terms of an insurance contract are modified, for example by agreement between the parties to the 
contract or by a change in regulation, an entity shall derecognise the original contract and recognise the 
modified contract as a new contract, applying SLFRS 17 or other applicable Standards if, and only if, 
any of the conditions in (a)–(c) are satisfied. The exercise of a right included in the terms of a contract 
is not a modification. The conditions are that: 
(a) if the modified terms had been included at contract inception: 
(i) the modified contract would have been excluded from the scope of SLFRS 17, applying 
paragraphs 3–8A8; 
(ii) ... 
... 
 
Derecognition 
 ... 
76 An entity derecognises an insurance contract from within a group of contracts by applying the following 
requirements in SLFRS 17: 

<!-- page 12 -->

12A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022 
... 
(c) the number of coverage units for expected remaining insurance contract services coverage is
adjusted to reflect the coverage uni ts derecognised from the group, and the amount of the
contractual service margin recognised in profit or loss in the period is based on that adjusted
number, applying paragraph B119.
... 
Paragraphs 78–79 are amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through. 
Presentation in the statement of financial position 
78 An entity shall present separately in the statement of financial position the carrying amount of 
portfoliosgroups of: 
(a) insurance contracts issued that are assets;
(b) insurance contracts issued that are liabilities;
(c) re-insurance contracts held that are assets; and
(d) re-insurance contracts held that are liabilities. 
79 An entity shall include any assets or liabilities for insurance acquisition cash flows recognised applying 
paragraph 28B27 in the carrying amount of the related portfoliosgroups of insurance contracts issued, 
and any assets or liabilities for cash flows related to portfoliosgroups of reinsurance contracts held 
(see paragraph 65(b)65(a)) in the carrying amount of the portfoliosgroups of reinsurance contracts 
held. 
Paragraphs 83, 86 and 88‒89 are amended and paragraph 87A is added. New text is underlined and 
deleted text is struck through. 
Recognition and presentation in the statement(s) of financial performance (paragraphs 
B120–B136) 
83 
86 
... 
Insurance service result 
An entity shall present in profit or loss insurance revenue arising from the groups of insurance 
contracts issued.  Insurance  revenue  shall depict  the provision of  coverage  and  other services 
arising from  the  group of  insurance contracts  at  an  amount  that reflects  the  consideration  to 
which the  entity  expects  to  be entitled  in exchange  for  those  services.  Paragraphs B120 –B127 
specify how an entity measures insurance revenue. 
... 
An entity may present the income or expenses from a group of reinsurance contracts held 
(see paragraphs 60–70A70 ), other than insurance finance income or expenses, as a single amount; 
or the entity may present separately the amounts recovered from the reinsurer and an allocation 
of the premiums paid that together give a net amount equal to that single amount. If an entity 
presents separately the amounts recovered from the reinsurer and an allocation of the premiums paid, 
it shall:  

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    13A
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022 
(a) ...
(b) treat amounts from the reinsurer that it expects to receive that are not contingent on claims of the
underlying contracts (for example, some types of ceding commissions) as a reduction in the
premiums to be paid to the reinsurer; and
(ba) treat amounts recognised relati ng to recovery of losses applying paragraphs 66(c)(i)‒(ii) and 
66A‒66B as amounts recovered from the reinsurer; and 
(c) not present the allocation of premiums paid as a reduction in revenue.
Insurance finance income or expenses (see paragraphs B128–B136) 
... 
87A An entity shall apply: 
(a) paragraph B117A to insurance finance income or expenses arising from the application of
paragraph B115 (risk mitigation); and
(b) paragraphs 88 and 89 to all other insurance finance income or expenses.
88 In applying paragraph 87A(b), unless Unless paragraph 89 applies, an entity shall make an 
accounting policy choice between: 
... 
89 In applying paragraph 87A(b), forFor insurance contracts with direct participation features, for 
which the entity holds the u nderlying items, an entity shall make an accounting policy choice 
between:  
... 
Disclosure 
... 
Paragraphs 97, 99–101, 103–105, 106‒107 and 109 are amended, paragraphs 105A–105B, and 109A are 
added. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through. 
Explanation of recognised amounts 
97 Of the disclosures required by paragraphs 98 –109A109, only those in paragraphs 98 –100, 102‒103, 
105‒105B and 109A  and 102–105 apply to contracts to which the premium allocation approach has 
been applied. If an entity uses the premium allocation approach, it shall also disclose: 
... 
99 An entity shall provide enough information in the reconciliations to enable users of financial statements 
to identify changes from cash flows and amounts that are recognised  in the statement(s) of financial 
performance. To comply with this requirement, an entity shall:  
(a) disclose, in a table, the reconciliations set out in paragraphs 100–105B105; and

<!-- page 14 -->

14A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
(b) for each reconciliation, present the net carrying amounts at the begi nning and at the end of the 
period, disaggregated into a total for portfoliosgroups of contracts that are assets and a total for 
portfoliosgroups of contracts that are liabilities, that equal the amounts presented in the 
statement of financial position applying paragraph 78. 
100 An entity shall disclose reconciliations from the opening to the closing balances separately for each of:  
...  
(c) the l iabilities for incurred claims. For insurance contracts to which the premium allocation 
approach described in paragraphs 53–59 or 69–70A70 has been applied, an entity shall disclose 
separate reconciliations for: 
...  
 
101 For insurance contracts other than  those to which the premium allocation approach described in 
paragraphs 53–59 or 69–70A70 has been applied, an entity shall also disclose reconciliations from the 
opening to the closing balances separately for each of:  
...  
103 An entity shall separately disclose in the reconciliations required in paragraph 100 each of the following 
amounts related to insurance services, if applicable: 
...  
(c) investment components excluded from insurance revenue and insurance service expenses  
(combined with refunds of pr emiums unless refunds of premiums are presented as part of the 
cash flows in the period described in paragraph 105(a)(i)). 
104 An entity shall separately disclose in the reconciliations required in paragraph 101 each of the following 
amounts related to insurance services, if applicable: 
(a) ... 
(b) changes that relate to current service, ie:  
(i) ... 
(ii) the change in the risk adjustment for non -financial risk that does not relate to future 
service or past service; and 
(iii) experience adjustments  (see par agraphs B97(c) and B113(a)) , excluding amounts 
relating to the risk adjustment for non-financial risk included in (ii). 
(c) ... 
 
105 To complete the reconciliations in paragraphs 100 –101, an entity shall also disclose separately each of 
the following amounts not related to insurance services provided in the period, if applicable:  
...  
105A An entity shall disclose a reconciliation from the opening to the closing balance of assets for insurance 
acquisition cash flows recognised applying paragraph 28B. An entity shall aggregate information for 
the reconciliation at a level that is consistent with that for the reconciliation of insurance contracts, 
applying paragraph 98. 
105B An entity shall separately disclose in the reconciliation required by paragraph 105A any impairment 
losses and reversals of impairment losses recognised applying paragraph 28E –28F. 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    15A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
106 For insurance contracts issued other than those to which the premium allocation approach described in 
paragraphs 53 –59 has been applied, an entity shal l disclose an analysis of the insurance revenue 
recognised in the period comprising: 
(a) the amounts relating to the changes in the liability for remaining coverage as specified in 
paragraph B124, separately disclosing: 
(i) ... 
(ii) the change in the risk adjustment for non -financial risk, as specified in paragraph 
B124(b); and 
(iii) the amount of the contractual service margin recognised in profit or loss because of 
the transfer of  insurance contract  services in the period, as specified in paragraph 
B124(c); and. 
(iv) other amounts, if any, for example, experience adjustments for premium receipts 
other than those that relate to future service as specified in paragraph B124(d).  
(b) the allocation of the portion of the premiums that relate to the recovery of insurance acquisition 
cash flows (see paragraph B125). 
 
107 For insurance contracts other than those to which the premium allocation approach described in 
paragraphs 53–59 or 69–70A70 has been applied, an entity shall disclose the effect on the statement of 
financial position separately for insurance contracts issued and reinsurance contracts held that are 
initially recognised in the period, showing their effect at initial recognition on: 
...  
109 For insurance contracts other than those to which the premium allocation approach described in 
paragraphs 53–59 or 69 –70A70 has been applied, an entity shall disclose  an explanation of  when it 
expects to recognise the contractual service margin remaining at the end of the reporting period in profit 
or loss, either quantitatively, in appropriate time bands , or by providing qualitative information . Such 
information shall be provided separately for insurance contracts issued and reinsurance contracts held. 
109A An entity shall disclose quantitatively, in appropriate time bands, when it expects to derecognise an 
asset for insurance acquisition cash flows applying paragraph 28C. 
... 
 
Paragraph 114 is amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through. 
 
Transition amounts 
114 An entity shall provide disclosures that enable users of financial statements to identify the effect of 
groups of insurance contracts measured at the transition date applying the modi fied retrospective 
approach (see paragraphs C6–C19AC19) or the fair value approach (see paragraphs C20–C24BC24) on 
the contractual service margin and insurance revenue in subsequent periods. Hence an entity shall 
disclose the reconciliation of the contractual service margin applying paragraph 101(c), and the amount 
of insurance revenue applying paragraph 103(a), separately for: 
...  
 

<!-- page 16 -->

16A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
Paragraph 117 is amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through.  
 
Significant judgements in applying SLFRS 17 
117 An entity shall disclose the significant judgements and changes in judgements made in applying SLFRS 
17. Specifically, an entity shall disclose the inputs, assumptions and estimation techniques used, 
including:  
...  
(c) to the extent not covered in (a), the approach used:  
...  
(iii) to determine discount rates; and 
(iv) to determine investment components; and. 
(v) to determine the relative weighting of the benefits provided by insurance coverage 
and investment -return ser vice or by insurance coverage and investment -related 
service (see paragraphs B119–B119B). 
 ... 
 
Paragraphs 128–129 and 132 are amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through.  
 
 
Nature and extent of risks that arise from contracts within the scope of SLFRS 17 
... 
Insurance and market risks—sensitivity analysis 
128 An entity shall disclose information about sensitivities to changes in risk  variablesexposures arising 
from contracts within the scope of SLFRS 17. To comply with this requirement, an entity shall disclose:  
(a) a sensitivity analysis that shows how profit or loss and equity would have been affected by 
changes in risk  variablesexposures that were reasonably possible at the end of the reporting 
period:  
(i) ... 
(ii) for each type  of market risk —in a way that explains the relationship between the 
sensitivities to changes in risk  variablesexposures arising from insurance contracts 
and those arising from financial assets held by the entity. 
...  
129 If an entity prepares a sensitivit y analysis that shows how amounts different from those specified in 
paragraph 128(a) are affected by changes in risk variablesexposures and uses that sensitivity analysis to 
manage risks arising from contracts within the scope of SLFRS 17, it may use that sensitivity analysis 
in place of the analysis specified in paragraph 128(a). The entity shall also disclose:  
... 
 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    17A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
Liquidity risk—other information 
132 For liquidity risk arising from contracts within the scope of SLFRS 17, an entity shall disclose:  
(a) ... 
(b) separate maturity analyses for portfoliosgroups of insurance contracts issued that are liabilities 
and portfoliosgroups of reinsurance contracts held that are liabilities that show, as a minimum, 
net cash flows of the portfoliosgroups for each of the first five years after the reporting date and 
in aggregate beyond the first five years. An entity is not required to include in these analyses 
liabilities for remaining coverage measured applying paragraphs 55–59 and paragraphs 69–70A. 
The analyses may take the form of: 
...  
(c) the amounts that are payable on demand, explaining the relationship between such amounts and 
the carrying amount of the related portfoliosgroups of contracts, if not disclosed applying (b) of 
this paragraph. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 18 -->

18A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
Amendments to Appendix A—Defined terms 
 
The definitions of ‘contractual service margin’, ‘coverage period’, ‘group of insurance contracts’ and 
‘insurance acquisition cash flows’ are amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck 
through. 
 
 
contractual service 
margin 
A component of the carrying amount of the asset or liability for a group of 
insurance contracts representing the unearned profit the entity will recognise as it 
provides insurance contract services services under the insurance contracts  in 
the group. 
coverage period The period during which the entity provides insurance contract servicescoverage 
for insured events . This period includes the insurance contract services  that 
relatecoverage that relates  to all p remiums within the boundary of the insurance 
contract. 
...  
group of insurance 
contracts 
A set of insurance contracts  resulting from the division of a portfolio of 
insurance contracts into, at a minimum, contracts issuedwritten within a period 
of no longer than one year and that, at initial recognition:  
(a) are onerous, if any; 
(b) have no significant possibility of becoming onerous subsequently, if any; 
or 
(c) do not fall into either (a) or (b), if any. 
insurance 
acquisition cash 
flows 
Cash flows arising from the costs of selling, underwriting and starting a group of 
insurance contracts (issued or expected to be issued) that are directly attributable 
to the portfolio of insurance contracts  to which the group belongs. Such cash  
flows include cash flows that are not directly attributable to individual contracts or 
groups of insurance contracts within the portfolio. 
...  
A new definition is added after the definition of ‘insurance contract’. New text is underlined.  
 
insurance contract 
services 
The following services that an entity provides to a policyholder of an insurance 
contract: 
(a) coverage for an insured event (insurance coverage); 
(b) for insurance contracts without direct participation features , the 
generation of an investment return for the policyholder, if applicable 
(investment-return service); and 
(c) for insurance contracts with direct participation features , the 
management of underlying items on behalf of the policyholder 
(investment-related service). 
...  
 

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    19A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
 
The definitions of ‘investment component’, ‘liability for incurred claims’ and ‘liability for 
remaining coverage’ are amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through.  
 
investment 
component 
The amounts that an insurance contract  requires the entity to repay to a 
policyholderin all circumstances, regardless of whether an insured 
eventoccurseven if an insured event does not occur.  
...  
liability for 
incurred claims 
An entity’s obligation to: 
 
(a) investigate and pay valid claims for insured events that have already 
occurred, including events that have occurred but for which claims 
have not been reported, and other incurred insurance expenses; and. 
(b) pay amounts that are not included in (a) and that relate to: 
(i) insurance contract services that have already been 
provided; or 
(ii) any investment components or other amounts that are not 
related to the provision of insurance contract services and 
that are not in the liability for remaining coverage. 
liability for 
remaining coverage 
An entity’s obligation to: 
 
(a) investigate and pay valid claims under existing insurance contracts 
for insured events that have not yet occurred (ie the obligation that 
relates to the unexpired portion of the insurance coverage coverage 
period); and. 
(b) pay amounts under existing insurance contracts that are not included 
in (a) and that relate to: 
(i) insurance contract services  not yet provided (ie the 
obligations that relate to future provision of insurance 
contract services); or 
(ii) any investment components or other amounts that are not 
related to the provision of insurance contract services and 
that have not been transferred to the liability for incurred 
claims. 
...  
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 20 -->

20A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
Amendments to Appendix B—Application guidance 
 
Paragraph B1 is amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through. 
 
B1 This appendix provides guidance on the following:  
...  
(ba) asset for insurance acquisition cash flows (see paragraphs B35A–B35D); 
(c) measurement (see paragraphs B36–B119FB119); 
... 
 
Paragraphs B5 and B12 are amended. New text is underlined. 
Definition of an insurance contract (Appendix A) 
 ... 
Uncertain future event 
 ... 
B5 Some insurance contracts cover events that have already occurred but the financial effect of which is 
still uncertain. An example is an insurance contract that provides insurance coverage against an adverse 
development of an event that has already occurred. In such contracts, the insured event is the 
determination of the ultimate cost of those claims. 
 ... 
The distinction between insurance risk and other risks 
 ... 
B12 The definition of an insurance contract refers to an adverse effect on the policyholder. This definition 
does not limit the payment by the entity to an amount equal to the financial effect of the adverse event. 
For example, the definition includes ‘new for old’  insurance coverage that pays the policyholder an 
amount that permits the replacement of a used and damaged asset with a new one. Similarly, the 
definition does not limit the payment under a life insurance contract to the financial loss suffered by the 
deceased’s dependants, nor does it exclude contracts that specify the payment of predetermined amounts 
to quantify the loss caused by death or an accident. 
 ... 
 
Paragraphs B33‒B35 are amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    21A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
Promises to transfer distinct goods or non-insurance services other than 
insurance contract services (paragraph 12) 
B33 Paragraph 12 requires an entity to separate from an insurance contract a promise to transfer distinct 
goods or  non-insurance services other than insurance contract services  to a policyholder. For the 
purpose of separation, an entity shall not consider activities that an entity must undertake to fulfil a 
contract unless the entity transfer s a good or service  other than insurance contract services  to the 
policyholder as those activities occur. For example, an entity may need to perform various 
administrative tasks to set up a contract. The performance of those tasks does not transfer a servi ce to 
the policyholder as the tasks are performed. 
 
B34 A good or non-insurance service other than an insurance contract service promised to a policyholder is 
distinct if the policyholder can benefit from the good or service either on its own or together with other 
resources readily available to the policyholder. Readily available resources are goods or services that 
are sold separ ately (by the entity or by another entity), or resources that the policyholder has already 
got (from the entity or from other transactions or events). 
B35 A good or  non-insurance service other than an insurance contract service  that is promised to the 
policyholder is not distinct if:  
(a) ... 
(b) the entity provides a significant service in integrating the good or non-insurance service with the 
insurance components. 
 
Paragraphs B35A–B35D and the heading above paragraph B35A are added. New text is underlined. 
 
Insurance acquisition cash flows (paragraphs 28A‒28F) 
B35A To apply paragraph 28A, an entity shall use a systematic and rational method to allocate:  
(a) insurance acquisition cash flows directly attributable to a group of insurance contracts:  
(i) to that group; and 
(ii) to groups that will include insurance contracts that are expected to arise from renewals of 
the insurance contracts in that group. 
(b) insurance acquisition cash flows directly attributable to a portfolio of insurance contracts , other 
than those in (a), to groups of contracts in the portfolio. 
B35B At the end of each reporting period, an entity shall revise amounts allocated as specified in paragraph 
B35A to reflect any changes in assumptions that determine the inputs to the method of allocation used. 
An entity shall not change amounts allocated to a group of insurance contracts after all contracts have 
been added to the group (see paragraph B35C). 
B35C An entity might add insurance contracts to a group of insurance contracts across more than one reporting 
period (see paragraph 28). In those circumstances, an entity shall derecognise the portion of an asset for 
insurance acquisition cash flows that relates to insurance contracts added to the group in that period and 
continue to recognise an asset for insurance acquisition cash flows to the extent that the asset relates to 
insurance contracts expected to be added to the group in a future reporting period.  
 

<!-- page 22 -->

22A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
B35D To apply paragraph 28E: 
(a) an entity shall recognise an impairment l oss in profit or loss and reduce the carrying amount of 
an asset for insurance acquisition cash flows so that the carrying amount of the asset does not 
exceed the expected net cash inflow for the related group of insurance contracts, determined 
applying paragraph 32(a). 
(b) when an entity allocates insurance acquisition cash flows to groups of insurance contracts 
applying paragraph B35A(a)(ii), the entity shall recognise an impairment loss in profit or loss 
and reduce the carrying amount of the related asse ts for insurance acquisition cash flows to the 
extent that: 
(i) the entity expects those insurance acquisition cash flows to exceed the net cash inflow for 
the expected renewals, determined applying paragraph 32(a); and 
(ii) the excess determined applying (b)(i) has not already been recognised as an impairment loss 
applying (a). 
 
Paragraphs B64 –B66 and B71 –B72 are amended and paragraph B66A is added. New text is 
underlined and deleted text is struck through. 
Measurement (paragraphs 29–71) 
Estimates of future cash flows (paragraphs 33–35) 
 ... 
Cash flows within the contract boundary (paragraph 34) 
 ... 
B64 Paragraph 34 refers to an entity’s practical ability to set a price at a future date (a renewal date) that 
fully reflects the risks in the contract from that date. An entity has that practical ability in the absence 
of constraints that prevent the entity f rom setting the same price it would for a new contract with the 
same characteristics as the existing contract issued on that date, or if it can amend the benefits to be 
consistent with the price it will charge. Similarly, an entity has that practical abili ty to set a price when 
it can reprice an existing contract so that the price reflects overall changes in the risks in a portfolio of 
insurance contracts, even if the price set for each individual policyholder does not reflect the change in 
risk for that sp ecific policyholder. When assessing whether the entity has the practical ability to set a 
price that fully reflects the risks in the contract or portfolio, it shall consider all the risks that it would 
consider when underwriting equivalent contracts on the renewal date for the remaining servicecoverage. 
In determining the estimates of future cash flows at the end of a reporting period, an entity shall reassess 
the boundary of an insurance contract to include the effect of changes in circumstances on the ent ity’s 
substantive rights and obligations. 
B65 Cash flows within the boundary of an insurance contract are those that relate directly to the fulfilment 
of the contract, including cash flows for which the entity has discretion over the amount or timing. The 
cash flows within the boundary include: 
...  
(ka) costs the entity will incur: 
(i) performing investment activity, to the extent the entity performs that activity to enhance 
benefits from insurance coverage for policyholders. Investment activities enhance 
benefits from insurance coverage if the entity performs those activities expecting to 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    23A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
generate an investment return from which policyholders will benefit if an insured event 
occurs. 
(ii) providing investment -return service to policyholders of insurance con tracts without 
direct participation features (see paragraph B119B). 
(iii) providing investment-related service to policyholders of insurance contracts with direct 
participation features. 
... 
B66 The following cash flows shall not be included when estimating the cash flows that will arise as the 
entity fulfils an existing insurance contract:  
...  
(f) income tax payments and receipts the insurer does not pay or receive in a fiduciary capacity or 
that are not specifically chargeable to the policyholder under the terms of the contract . Such 
payments and receipts are recognised, measured and presented separately applying LKAS 12 
Income Taxes. 
...  
B66A Before the recognition of a group of insurance con tracts, an entity might be required to recognise an 
asset or liability for cash flows related to the group of insurance contracts other than insurance 
acquisition cash flows either because of the occurrence of the cash flows or because of the requirements 
of another SLFRS Standard. Cash flows are related to the group of insurance contracts if those cash 
flows would have been included in the fulfilment cash flows at the date of initial recognition of the 
group had they been paid or received after that date. To apply paragraph 38(c)(ii) an entity shall 
derecognise such an asset or liability to the extent that the asset or liability would not be recognised 
separately from the group of insurance contracts if the cash flow or the application of the SLFRS 
Standard occurred at the date of initial recognition of the group of insurance contracts.  
Contracts with cash flows that affect or are affected by cash flows to policyholders of other 
contracts 
... 
B71 After all insurance contract services havethe coverage has been provided to the contracts in a group, the 
fulfilment cash flows may still include payments expected to be made to current policyholders in other 
groups or future policyholders. An entity is not required to continue to allocate such fulfilment cash 
flows to specific groups but can instead recognise and measure a liability for such fulfilment cash flows 
arising from all groups. 
Discount rates (paragraph 36) 
B72 An entity shall use the following discount rates in applying SLFRS 17: 
...  
(c) to measure th e changes to the contractual service margin applying paragraphs B96(a)‒B96(b) 
and B96(d) paragraph B96(a) –B96(c) for insurance contracts without direct participation 
features—discount rates applying paragraph 36 determined on initial recognition;  

<!-- page 24 -->

24A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
... 
 
Paragraphs B93–B95 are amended, paragraph B95 is bifurcated creating new paragraph B95A. 
Paragraphs B95B –B95F and the heading above paragraph B95E are added. New text is 
underlined. 
 
Initial recognition of transfers of insurance contracts and business combinations 
(paragraph 39) 
B93 When an entity acquires insurance contracts issued or reinsurance contracts held in a transfer of 
insurance contracts that do not form a business or in a business combination within the scope of SLFRS 
3, the entity shall apply paragraphs 14–24 to identify the groups of contracts acquired, as if it had entered 
into the contracts on the date of the transaction. 
B94 An entity shall use the consideration received or paid for the contracts as a proxy for the premiums 
received. The consideration received or paid for the contracts excludes the consideration received or 
paid for any other assets and liabilities acquired in the same transaction. In a business combination  
within the scope of SLFRS 3, the consideration received or paid is the fair value of the contracts at that 
date. In determining that fair value, an entity shall not apply paragraph 47 of SLFRS 13 (relating to 
demand features). 
B95 Unless the premium allocation approach for the liability for remaining coverage in paragra phs 55–59 
and 69 –70A applies, on initial recognition the contractual service margin is calculated applying 
paragraph 38 for acquired insurance contracts issued and paragraph 65 for acquired reinsurance 
contracts held using the consideration received or pai d for the contracts as a proxy for the premiums 
received or paid at the date of initial recognition. 
B95A If acquired insurance contracts issued are onerous, applying paragraph 47, the entity shall recognise the 
excess of the fulfilment cash flows over the  consideration paid or received as part of goodwill or gain 
on a bargain purchase for contracts acquired in a business combination  within the scope of SLFRS 3,  
or as a loss in profit or loss for contracts acquired in a transfer. The entity shall establish a loss 
component of the liability for remaining coverage for that excess, and apply paragraphs 49 –52 to 
allocate subsequent changes in fulfilment cash flows to that loss component.  
B95B For a group of reinsurance contracts held to which paragraphs 66A–66B apply, an entity shall determine 
the loss -recovery component of the asset for remaining coverage at the date of the transaction by 
multiplying: 
(a) the loss component of the liability for remaining coverage of the underlying insurance contracts 
at the date of the transaction; and 
(b) the percentage of claims on the underlying insurance contracts the entity expects at the date of 
the transaction to recover from the group of reinsurance contracts held. 
B95C The entity shall recognise the amount of the loss -recovery component determined applying paragraph 
B95B as part of goodwill or gain on a bargain purchase for reinsurance contracts held acquired in a 
business combination within the scope of SLFRS 3, or as income in profit or loss for contracts acquired 
in a transfer. 
B95D Applying paragraphs 14‒22, at the date of the transaction an entity might include in an onerous group 
of insurance contracts both onerous insurance contracts covered by a group of reinsurance contracts 
held and onerous contracts not covered by the group of reinsurance contracts held. To apply paragraph 
B95B in such cases, an entity shall use a systematic and rational basis of allocation to determine the 
portion of the loss component of the group of insurance contracts that relates to insuranc e contracts 
covered by the group of reinsurance contracts held. 

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    25A
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022 
Asset for insurance acquisition cash flows 
B95E When an entity acquires insurance contracts issued in a transfer of insurance contracts that do not form 
a business or in a business combination within the scope of SLFRS 3, the entity shall recognise an asset 
for insurance acquisition cash flows at fair value at the date of the transaction for the rights to obtain:  
(a) future insurance contracts that are renewals of insurance contracts recognised  at the date of the
transaction; and
(b) future insurance contracts, other than those in (a), after the date of the transaction without paying
again insurance acquisition cash flows the acquiree has already paid that are directly attributable
to the related portfolio of insurance contracts.
B95F At the date of the transaction, the amount of any asset for insurance acquisition cash flows shall not be 
included in the measurement of the acquired group of insurance contracts applying paragraphs B93‒
B95A. 
Paragraphs B96–B97 are amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through. 
Changes in the carrying amount of the contractual service margin for insurance 
contracts without direct participation features (paragraph 44) 
B96 For insurance contracts without direct participation features, paragraph 44(c) requires an adjustment to 
the contractual service margin of a group of insurance contracts for changes in fulfilment cash flows 
that relate to future service. These changes comprise: 
(a) experience adjustments arising from premiums received in the period that relate to future service,
and related cash flows such as insurance acquisition cash flows and premium -based taxes,
measured at the discount rates specified in paragraph B72(c).;
(b) changes in estimates of the present value of the future cash flows in the liability for remaining
coverage, except those described in paragraph B97(a), measured at the discount rates specified
in paragraph B72(c).;
(c) differences between any investment component e xpected to become payable in the period and
the actual investment component that becomes payable in the period . Those differences are
determined by comparing (i) the actual investment component that becomes payable in the period
with (ii) the payment in the period that was expected at the start of the period plus any insurance
finance income or expenses related to that expected payment before it becomes payable.
measured at the discount rates specified in paragraph B72(c); and 
(ca) differences between any loan to a policyholder expected to become repayable in the period and 
the actual loan to a policyholder that becomes repayable in the period. Those differences are 
determined by comparing (i) the actual loan to a policyholder that becomes repayable in the 
period with (ii) the repayment in the period that was expected at the start of the period plus any 
insurance finance income or expenses related to that expected repayment before it becomes 
repayable. 
(d) changes in the risk adjustment for non-financial risk that relate to future service. An entity is not
required to disaggregate the change in the risk adjustment for non -financial risk between (i) a
change related to non-financial risk and (ii) the effect of the time value of money and changes in
the time value of money. If an entity makes such a disaggregation, it shall adjust the contractual

<!-- page 26 -->

26A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
service margin for the change related to non -financial risk, measured at the discount rates 
specified in paragraph B72(c). 
 
B97 An entity shall not adjust the contractual service margin for a group of insurance contracts without direct 
participation features for the following changes in fulfilment cash flows because they do not relate to 
future service: 
(a) the effect of the time value of money and changes in the time value of money and the effect of 
financial risk and changes in financial risk. These effects comprise: (being 
(i) the effect, if any, on estimated future cash flows; 
(ii) the effect, if disaggregated, on the risk adjustment for non-financial risk; and 
(iii) the effect of a change in discount rate.); 
(b) changes in estimates of fulfilment cash flows in the liability for incurred claims .; and 
(c) ...  
 ... 
 
Paragraphs B104, B107, B112, B115 –B116 and B118 are amended. Paragraph B117A is added. 
Paragraph B101 is not amended, but is included for ease of reference. New text is underlined and 
deleted text is struck through. 
 
Changes in the carrying amount of the contractual service margin for insurance 
contracts with direct participation features (paragraph 45) 
B101 Insurance contracts with direct participation features are insurance contracts that are substantially 
investment‑related service contracts under which an entity promises an investment return based on 
underlying items. Hence, they are defined as insurance contracts for which: 
(a) the contractual terms specify that the policyholder participates in a share of a clearly identified 
pool of underlying items (see paragraphs B105–B106); 
(b) the entity expects to pay to the policyholder an amount equal to a substant ial share of the fair 
value returns on the underlying items (see paragraph B107); and 
(c) the entity expects a substantial proportion of any change in the amounts to be paid to the 
policyholder to vary with the change in fair value of the underlying items (see paragraph B107). 
 ... 
B104 The conditions in paragraph B101 ensure that insurance contracts with direct participation features are 
contracts under which the entity’s obligation to the policyholder is the net of:  
(a) ... 
(b) a variable fee (see paragraphs B110–B118) that the entity will deduct from (a) in exchange for 
the future service provided by the insurance contract, comprising: 
(i) the amount of the entity’s share of the fair value of the underlying items; less 
(ii) ... 
 ... 
 

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    27A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
B107 Paragraph B101(b) requires that the entity expects a substantial share of the fair value returns on the 
underlying items will be paid to the policyholder and paragraph B101(c) requires that the entity expects 
a substantial proportion of any change in the amounts to be paid to the policyholder to vary with the 
change in fair value of the underlying items. An entity shall: 
(a) ...  
(b) assess the variability in the amounts in paragraphs B101(b) and B101(c): 
(i) over the duration of the insurance contractgroup of insurance contracts; and 
(ii) ... 
 ... 
B112 Changes in the  amount of the  entity’s share of the fair value of the underlying items (paragraph 
B104(b)(i)) relate to future service and adjust the contractual service margin, applying paragraph 45(b). 
... 
Risk mitigation 
B115 To the extent that an entity meets the conditions in paragraph B116, it may choose not to recognise a 
change in the contractual service margin to reflect some or all of the changes in the effect of  the time 
value of money and  financial risk on: the entity’s share of the underlying items (see paragraph B112) 
or the fulfilment cash flows set out in paragraph B113(b). 
(a) the amount of the entity’s share of the underlying items (see paragraph B112) if the entity 
mitigates the effect of financial ri sk on that amount using derivatives or reinsurance contracts 
held; and 
(b) the fulfilment cash flows set out in paragraph B113(b) if the entity mitigates the effect of 
financial risk on those fulfilment cash flows using derivatives, non -derivative financia l 
instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss, or reinsurance contracts held.  
B116 To apply paragraph B115, an entity must have a previously documented risk-management objective and 
strategy for mitigating financial risk as described in parag raph B115. using derivatives to mitigate 
financial risk arising from the insurance contracts and, in In applying that objective and strategy: 
(a) the entity uses a derivative to mitigate the financial risk arising from the insurance contracts.  
(a)(b) an economic offset exists between the insurance contracts and the derivative, non-derivative 
financial instrument measured at fair value through profit or loss, or reinsurance contract held 
(ie the values of the insurance contracts and those risk mitigating itemsthe derivative generally 
move in opposite directions because they respond in a similar way to the changes in the risk 
being mitigated). An entity shall not consider accounting measurement differences in assessing 
the economic offset. 
(b)(c) credit risk does not dominate the economic offset. 
 ... 
B117A If the entity mitigates the effect of financial risk using derivatives or non -derivative financial 
instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss, it shall include insurance finance income or 
expenses for the period arising from the application of paragraph B115 in profit or loss. If the entity 
mitigates the effect of financial risk using reinsurance contracts held, it shall apply the same 
accounting policy for the presentation of insurance finance income or expenses arising from the 

<!-- page 28 -->

28A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
application of paragraph B115 as the entity applies to the reinsurance contracts held applying 
paragraphs 88 and 90. 
B118 If, and only if, any of the conditions in paragraph B116 ceaseceases to be met, an entity shall: 
(a) cease to apply paragraph B115 from that date. ; and 
(b) An entity shall not make any adjustment for changes previously recognised in profit or loss.  
 
Paragraph B119 is amended and paragraphs B119A–B119B are added. New text is underlined 
and deleted text is struck through. 
Recognition of the contractual service margin in profit or loss 
B119 An amount of the contractual service margin for a group of insurance contracts is recognised in profit 
or loss in each period to reflect the insurance contract services provided under the group of insurance 
contracts in that period (see paragraphs 44(e), 45(e) and 66(e)). The amount is determined by:  
(a) identifying the coverage units in the group. The number of coverage units in a group is the 
quantity of insurance contract services coverage provided by the contracts in the group, 
determined by considering for each contract the quantity of the benefits provided under a 
contract and its expected coverage periodduration. 
(b) allocating the contractual service margi n at the end of the period (before recognising any 
amounts in profit or loss to reflect the  insurance contract  services provided in the period) 
equally to each coverage unit provided in the current period and expected to be provided in the 
future. 
(c) recognising in profit or loss the amount allocated to coverage units provided in the period.  
B119A To apply paragraph B119, the period of investment-return service or investment-related service ends 
at or before the date that all amounts due to current policyholders relating to those services have been 
paid, without considering payments to future policyholders included in the fulfilment cash flows 
applying paragraph B68. 
 
B119B Insurance contracts without direct participation features may provide an investment-return service if, 
and only if: 
(a) an investment component exists, or the policyholder has a right to withdraw an amount;  
(b) the entity expects the investment component or amount the policyholder has a right to 
withdraw to include an investment return (a n investment return could be below zero, for 
example, in a negative interest rate environment); and 
(c) the entity expects to perform investment activity to generate that investment return.  
 
Paragraphs B119C–B119F and the heading above paragraph BC119C are added. New text is 
underlined and deleted text is struck through. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    29A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
Reinsurance contracts held —recognition of recovery of losses on underlying 
insurance contracts (paragraphs 66A−66B) 
B119C Paragraph 66A applies if, and only if, the reinsurance contract held is entered into before or at the 
same time as the onerous underlying insurance contracts are recognised.  
B119D To apply paragraph 66A, an entity shall determine the adjustment to the cont ractual service margin 
of a group of reinsurance contracts held and the resulting income by multiplying:  
(a) the loss recognised on the underlying insurance contracts; and 
(b) the percentage of claims on the underlying insurance contracts the entity expect s to recover 
from the group of reinsurance contracts held. 
B119E Applying paragraphs 14‒22, an entity might include in an onerous group of insurance contracts both 
onerous insurance contracts covered by a group of reinsurance contracts held and onerous ins urance 
contracts not covered by the group of reinsurance contracts held. To apply paragraphs 66(c)(i)‒(ii) 
and paragraph 66A in such cases, the entity shall apply a systematic and rational method of allocation 
to determine the portion of losses recognised on the group of insurance contracts that relates to 
insurance contracts covered by the group of reinsurance contracts held.  
B119F After an entity has established a loss -recovery component applying paragraph 66B, the entity shall 
adjust the loss-recovery component to reflect changes in the loss component of an onerous group of 
underlying insurance contracts (see paragraphs 50 –52). The carrying amount of the loss -recovery 
component shall not exceed the portion of the carrying amount of the loss component of t he onerous 
group of underlying insurance contracts that the entity expects to recover from the group of 
reinsurance contracts held. 
 
Paragraphs B121, B123, B124 and B126 are amended and paragraph B123A is added. New text is 
underlined and deleted text is struck through. 
 
Insurance revenue (paragraphs 83 and 85) 
... 
B121 Paragraph 83 requires the amount of insurance revenue recognised  in a period to depict the transfer 
of promised services at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be 
entitled in exchange for those services. The total consideration for a group of contracts covers the 
following amounts:  
(a) amounts related to the provision of services, comprising: 
(i) insurance service expenses, excluding any amounts relating to the risk adjustment for 
non-financial risk included in (ii) and  any amounts allocated to the loss component 
of the liability for remaining coverage; 
(ia) amounts related to income tax that are specifically chargeable to the policyholder;  
(ii) the risk adjustment for non-financial risk, excluding any amounts allocated to the loss 
component of the liability for remaining coverage; and 
(iii) ... 
(b) ...  

<!-- page 30 -->

30A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
B123 Applying SLFRS 15, when an entity provides services, it derecognises the performance obligation 
for those services and recognises revenue. Consistently, applying SLFRS 17, when an entity provides 
services in a period, it reduces the liability for remaining coverage for the services provided and 
recognises insurance revenue. The reduction in the liability for remaining coverage that gives rise to 
insurance revenue excludes changes in the liability that do not relate to services expected to be 
covered by the consideration received by the entity. Those changes are:  
(a) changes that do not relate to services provided in the period, for example: 
...  
(iia) changes resulting from cash flows from loans to policyholders; 
...  
B123A To the extent that an entity derecognises an asset for cash flows other than insurance acquisition cash 
flows at the date of initial recognition of a group of insurance contracts (see paragraphs 38(c)(ii) and 
B66A), it shall recognise insurance revenue and expenses for the amount derecognised at that date. 
B124 Consequently, insurance revenue for the period can also be analysed as the total of the changes in the 
liability for remaining coverage in the period that relates to services for which the entity expects to 
receive consideration. Those changes are:  
(a) insurance service expenses incurred in the period (measured at the amounts expected at the 
beginning of the period), excluding:  
...  
(iii) amounts that relate to transaction -based taxes collected on behalf of third parties 
(such as premium t axes, value added taxes and goods and services taxes) (see 
paragraph B65(i)); and 
(iv) insurance acquisition expenses (see paragraph B125); and. 
(v) the amount related to the risk adjustment for non-financial risk (see (b)). 
...  
(d) other amounts, if any,  for example, experience adjustments for premium receipts other than 
those that relate to future service (see paragraph B96(a)). 
... 
B126 When an entity applies the premium allocation approach in paragraphs 55–58, insurance revenue for 
the period is the am ount of expected premium receipts (excluding any investment component and 
adjusted to reflect the time value of money and the effect of financial risk, if applicable, applying 
paragraph 56) allocated to the period. The entity shall allocate the expected premium receipts to each 
period of insurance contract servicescoverage: 
... 
 
Paragraphs B128 and B134 are amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck 
through. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    31A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
Insurance revenue (paragraphs 83 and 85) 
... 
B121 Paragraph 83 requires the amount of insurance revenue recognised in a period to depict the transfer 
of promised services at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be 
entitled in exchange for those services. The total consi deration for a group of contracts covers the 
following amounts:  
(a) amounts related to the provision of services, comprising: 
(i) insurance service expenses, excluding any amounts relating to the risk adjustment for 
non-financial risk included in (ii) and  any amounts allocated to the loss component 
of the liability for remaining coverage; 
(ia) amounts related to income tax that are specifically chargeable to the policyholder;  
(ii) the risk adjustment for non-financial risk, excluding any amounts allocated to the loss 
component of the liability for remaining coverage; and 
(iii) ... 
(b) ... 
... 
 
B123 Applying SLFRS 15, when an entity provides services, it derecognises the performance obligation 
for those services and recognises revenue. Consistently, applying SLFRS 17, when an entity provides 
services in a period, it reduces the liability for remaining coverage for the services provided and 
recognises insurance revenue. The reduction in the liability for remaining coverage that gives rise to 
insurance revenue excludes changes in the liability that do not relate to services expected to be 
covered by the consideration received by the entity. Those changes are:  
(a) changes that do not relate to services provided in the period, for example: 
...  
(iia) changes resulting from cash flows from loans to policyholders; 
...  
B123A To the extent that an entity derecognises an asset for cash flows other than insurance acquisition cash 
flows at the date of initial recognition of a group of insurance contracts (see paragraphs 38(c)(ii) and 
B66A), it shall recognise insurance revenue and expenses for the amount derecognised at that date.  
B124 Consequently, insurance revenue for the period can also be analysed as the total of the changes in the 
liability for remaining coverage in the period that relates to services for which the entity expects to 
receive consideration. Those changes are:  
(a) insurance service expenses incurred in the period (measured at the amounts expected at the 
beginning of the period), excluding:  
...  
(iii) amounts that relate to transaction -based taxes collected on behalf of third parties 
(such as premium taxes, value added taxes and goods and services taxes) (see 
paragraph B65(i)); and 
(iv) insurance acquisition expenses (see paragraph B125); and. 
(v) the amount related to the risk adjustment for non-financial risk (see (b)). 

<!-- page 32 -->

32A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
...  
(d) other amounts, if any, for example, experience adjustments for premium receipts other than 
those that relate to future service (see paragraph B96(a)). 
 ... 
B126 When an entity applies the premium allocation approach in paragraphs 55–58, insurance revenue for 
the period is the amount of expected premium receipts (excluding any investment component and 
adjusted to reflect the time value of money and the effect of fi nancial risk, if applicable, applying 
paragraph 56) allocated to the period. The entity shall allocate the expected premium receipts to each 
period of insurance contract servicescoverage: 
... 
 
Paragraphs B128 and B134 are amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through. 
 
Insurance finance income or expenses (paragraphs 87–92) 
B128 Paragraph 87 requires an entity to include in insurance finance income or expenses the effect of  the 
time value of money and financial risk and changes thereinin assumptions that relate to financial risk. 
For the purposes of SLFRS 17: 
(a) assumptions about inflation based on an index of prices or rates or on prices of assets with 
inflation-linked returns are assumptions that relate to financial risk; and 
(b) assumptions about inflation based on an entity’s expectation of specific price changes are not 
assumptions that relate to financial risk; and. 
(c) changes in the measurement of a group of insurance contracts caused by changes in the value 
of underlying items (excluding additions and withdrawals) are changes arising from the effect 
of the time value of money and financial risk and changes therein. 
... 
B134 Paragraph 89 applies if an entity, either by choice or because it is required to, holds the underly ing 
items for insurance contracts with direct participation features. If an entity chooses to disaggregate 
insurance finance income or expenses applying paragraph 89(b), it shall include in profit or loss 
expenses or income that exactly match the income or  expenses included in profit or loss for the 
underlying items, resulting in the net of the two separately presented items being nil. 
... 
 
Paragraph B137 and its heading are amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck 
through. 
 
The effect of accounting estimates made in interimInterim financial statements 
 
B137 If an entity prepares interim financial statements applying LKAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting, the 
entity shall make an accounting policy choice as to whether to change the treatment of accounting 
estimates made in previous interim financial statements when applying SLFRS 17 in subsequent 
interim financial statements and in the annual reporting pe riod. The entity shall apply its choice of 
accounting policy to all groups of insurance contracts it issues and groups of reinsurance contracts it 
holds.Notwithstanding the requirement in LKAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting that the frequency 
of an entity’s reporting shall not affect the measurement of its annual results, an entity shall not change 
the treatment of accounting estimates made in previous interim financial statements when applying 
SLFRS 17 in subsequent interim financial statements or in the annual reporting period. 
 

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    33A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
Amendments to Appendix C—Effective date and transition 
 
Paragraph C1 is amended. Paragraph C2 is not amended, but is included for ease of reference. 
New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through. 
 
Effective date 
C1 An entity shall apply SLFRS 17 for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 
20252021. If an entity applies SLFRS 17 earlier, it shall disclose that fact. Early application is 
permitted for entities that apply SLFRS 9  Financial Instruments  and SLFRS 15  Revenue from 
Contracts with Customers on or before the date of initial application of SLFRS 17.  
C2 For the purposes of the transition requirements in paragraphs C1 and C3–C33: 
(a) the date of initial application is the beginning of the annual reporting period in which an entity 
first applies SLFRS 17; and 
(b) the transition date is the beginning of the annual reporting period immediately preceding the 
date of initial application. 
 
Paragraphs C3‒C5 are amended and paragraphs C5A‒C5B are added. New text is underlined and 
deleted text is struck through. 
 
Transition 
C3 Unless it is impracticable to do so, or paragraph C5A applies, an An entity shall apply SLFRS 17 
retrospectively unless impracticable, except that: 
(a) ... 
(b) an entity shall not apply the option in paragraph B115 for periods before the  transitiondatedate 
of initial application of SLFRS 17 . An entity may apply the option in paragraph B115 
prospectively on or after the transition date if, and only if, the entity designates risk mitigation 
relationships at or before the date it applies the option. 
C4 To apply SLFRS 17 retrospectively, an entity shall at the transition date:  
(a) ... 
(aa) identify, recognise and measure any assets for insurance acquisition cash flows as if SLFRS 
17 had always applied (except that an entity is not required to apply the recoverability 
assessment in paragraph 28E before the transition date); 
 ...  
C5 If, and only if, it is impracticable for an entity to apply paragraph C3 for a group of insurance contracts, 
an entity shall apply the following approaches instead of applying paragraph C4(a):  
(a) the modified retrospective approach in paragraphs C6–C19AC19, subject to paragraph C6(a); or 
(b) the fair value approach in paragraphs C20–C24BC24. 

<!-- page 34 -->

34A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
C5A Notwithstanding paragraph C5, an entity may choose to apply the fair value approach in paragraphs 
C20–C24B for a group of insurance contracts with direct participation features to which it could apply 
SLFRS 17 retrospectively if, and only if: 
(a) the entity chooses to apply the risk mitigation option in paragraph B115 to the group of insurance 
contracts prospectively from the transition date; and 
(b) the entity has used derivatives, non -derivative financial instruments measured at fair value 
through profit or loss, or reinsurance contracts held to mitigate financial risk arising from the 
group of insurance contracts, as specified in paragraph B115, before the transition date. 
C5B If, and only if, it is impracticable for an entity to apply paragraph C4(aa) for an asset for insurance 
acquisition cash flows, the entity shall apply the following approaches to measure the asset for insurance 
acquisition cash flows: 
(a) the modified retrospective approach in paragraphs C14B–C14D, subject to paragraph C6(a); or 
(b) the fair value approach in paragraphs C24A–C24B. 
 
Paragraphs C7‒C9, C11 and C15 –C16 and C17 are amended. Paragraphs C9A, C14A‒C14D, 
C16A‒C16C and C17A are added. New text is underlined and deleted text is stuck through.  
 
Modified retrospective approach 
... 
C7 Paragraphs C9–C19AC19 set out permitted modifications to retrospective application in the following 
areas: 
 ...  
C8 To achieve the objective of the modified retrospective approach, an entity is permitted to use each 
modification in paragraphs C9–C19AC19 only to the extent that an entity does not have reasonable and 
supportable information to apply a retrospective approach. 
Assessments at inception or initial recognition 
C9 To the extent permitted by paragraph C8, an entity shall determine the following matters using 
information available at the transition date: 
(a) ... 
(b) whether an insurance contract meets the definition of an insurance contract with direct 
participation features, applying paragraphs B101–B109; and 
(c) how to identify discretionary cash flows for insurance contracts without direct participation 
features, applying paragraphs B98–B100; and. 
(d) whether an investment contract meets the definition of an investment contract with discretionary 
participation features within the scope of SLFRS 17, applying paragraph 71.  
C9A To the extent permitted by paragraph C8, an entity shall classify as a liability for incurred claims a 
liability for settlement of claims incurred before an insurance contract was acquired in a transfer of 
insurance contracts that do not form a business or in a business combination within the scope of SLFRS 
3. 
 ... 
 

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    35A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
Determining the contractual service margin or loss component for groups of insurance 
contracts without direct participation features 
C11 To the extent permitted by paragraph C8, for contracts without direct participation features, an entity 
shall determine the contractual service margin or loss component of the liability for remaining coverage 
(see paragraphs 49–52) at the transition date by applying paragraphs C12–C16CC16. 
 ... 
C14A Applying paragraph B137, an entity may choose not to change the treatment of accounting estim ates 
made in previous interim financial statements. To the extent permitted by paragraph C8, such an entity 
shall determine the contractual service margin or loss component at the transition date as if the entity 
had not prepared interim financial statements before the transition date. 
C14B To the extent permitted by paragraph C8, an entity shall use the same systematic and rational method 
the entity expects to use after the transition date when applying paragraph 28A to allocate any insurance 
acquisition c ash flows paid (or for which a liability has been recognised applying another SLFRS 
Standard) before the transition date (excluding any amount relating to insurance contracts that ceased 
to exist before the transition date) to: 
(a) groups of insurance contracts that are recognised at the transition date; and 
(b) groups of insurance contracts that are expected to be recognised after the transition date.  
C14C Insurance acquisition cash flows paid before the transition date that are allocated to a group of insurance 
contracts recognised at the transition date adjust the contractual service margin of that group, to the 
extent insurance contracts expected to be in the group have been recognised at that date (see paragraphs 
28C and B35C). Other insurance acquisition cash flows paid before the transition date, including those 
allocated to a group of insurance contracts expected to be recognised after the transition d ate, are 
recognised as an asset, applying paragraph 28B. 
C14D If an entity does not have reasonable and supportable information to apply paragraph C14B, the entity 
shall determine the following amounts to be nil at the transition date: 
(a) the adjustment to the contractual service margin of a group of insurance contracts recognised at 
the transition date and any asset for insurance acquisition cash flows relating to that group; and  
(b) the asset for insurance acquisition cash flows for groups of insurance c ontracts expected to be 
recognised after the transition date. 
C15 If applying paragraphs C12 –C14DC14 results in a contractual service margin at the date of initial 
recognition, to determine the contractual service margin at the date of transition an entity  shall: 
...  
C16 If applying paragraphs C12 –C14DC14 results in a loss component of the liability for remaining 
coverage at the date of initial recognition, an entity shall determine any amounts allocated to the loss 
component before the transition date applying paragraphs C12–C14DC14 and using a systematic basis 
of allocation. 
C16A For a group of reinsurance contracts held that provides coverage for an onerous group of insurance 
contracts and was entered into before or at the same time that the insurance contracts were issued, an 
entity shall establish a loss -recovery component of the asset for remaining coverage at the transition 
date (see paragraphs 66A–66B). To the extent permitted by paragraph C8, an entity shall determine the 
loss-recovery component by multiplying: 

<!-- page 36 -->

36A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022 
(a) the loss component of the liability for remaining coverage for the underlying insurance contracts
at the transition date (see paragraphs C16 and C20); and
(b) the percentage of claims for the underlying insurance contracts the entity exp ects to recover
from the group of reinsurance contracts held.
C16B Applying paragraphs 14‒22, at the transition date an entity might include in an onerous group of 
insurance contracts both onerous insurance contracts covered by a group of re-insurance contracts held 
and onerous  insurance contracts  not covered  by the  group  of reinsurance  contracts held.  To apply 
paragraph C16A  in  such  cases, an  entity  shall  use  a systematic  and rational  basis  of  allocation  to 
determine the portion of the loss component of the group of insurance contracts that relates to insurance 
contracts covered by the group of reinsurance contracts held. 
C16C If an entity does not have reasonable and supportable information to apply paragraph C16A, the entity 
shall not identify a loss-recovery component for the group of reinsurance contracts held. 
Determining the contractual service margin or loss component for groups of insurance 
contracts with direct participation features 
C17 To the extent permitted by paragraph C8, for contracts with dir ect participation features an entity shall 
determine the contractual service margin or loss component of the liability for remaining coverage at 
the transition date as: 
(a) the total fair value of the underlying items at that date; minus
(b) the fulfilment cash flows at that date; plus or minus
(c) an adjustment for:
...
(iv) insurance acquisition cash flows paid (or for which a liability has been recognised
applying another SLFRS Standard) before the transition date that are allocated to the
group (see paragraph C17A).
(d) if (a)–(c) result in a contractual service margin —minus the amount of the contractual service
margin that relates to services provided before that date. The total of (a) –(c) is a proxy for the
total contractual service marg in for all services to be provided under the group of contracts, ie
before any amounts that would have been recognised in profit or loss for services provided. The
entity shall estimate the amounts that would have been recognised in profit or loss for serv ices
provided by comparing the remaining coverage units at the transition date with the coverage units
provided under the group of contracts before the transition date; or
(e) if (a)–(c) result in a loss component —adjust the loss component to nil and incre ase the liability
for remaining coverage excluding the loss component by the same amount.
C17A To the extent permitted by paragraph C8, an entity shall apply paragraphs C14B‒C14D to recognise an 
asset for insurance acquisition cash flows, and any adjustment to the contractual service margin of a 
group of insurance contracts with direct participation features for insurance acquisition cash flows 
(see paragraph C17(c)(iv)). 
Paragraph C19A is added. New text is underlined. 

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    37A
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022 
Insurance finance income or expenses 
... 
C19A Applying paragraph B137, an entity may choose not to change the treatment of accounting estimates 
made in previous interim financial statements. To the extent permitted by paragraph C8, such an entity 
shall determine amounts related to insurance finance income or expenses at the transition date as if it 
had not prepared interim financial statements before the transition date.  
Paragraphs C20A‒C20B and C22A are added and paragraph C21 is amended. New text is underlined 
and deleted text is struck through. 
Fair value approach 
... 
C20A For a group of reinsurance contracts held to which paragraphs 66A –66B apply (without the need to 
meet the condition set out in paragraph B119C), an entity shall determine the loss-recovery component 
of the asset for remaining coverage at the transition date by multiplying: 
(a) the loss component of the liability for remaining coverage for the underlying insurance contracts
at the transition date (see paragraphs C16 and C20); and
(b) the percentage of claims for the underlying insurance contracts the entity expects to recover from
the group of reinsurance contracts held.
C20B Applying paragraphs 14‒22, at the transition date an entity might include in an onerous group of 
insurance contracts both onerous insura nce contracts covered by a group of reinsurance contracts held 
and onerous insurance contracts not covered by the group of reinsurance contracts held. To apply 
paragraph C20A in such cases, an entity shall use a systematic and rational basis of allocation to 
determine the portion of the loss component of the group of insurance contracts that relates to insurance 
contracts covered by the group of reinsurance contracts held. 
C21 In applying the fair value approach, an entity may apply paragraph C22 to determi ne: 
(a) ...
(b) whether an insurance contract meets the definition of an insurance contract with direct
participation features, applying paragraphs B101–B109; and
(c) how to identify discretionary cash flows for insurance contracts without direct participa tion
features, applying paragraphs B98–B100; and.
(d) whether an investment contract meets the definition of an investment contract with discretionary
participation features within the scope of SLFRS 17, applying paragraph 71.
... 
C22A In applying the fair value approach, an entity may choose to classify as a liability for incurred claims a 
liability for settlement of claims incurred before an insurance contract was acquired in a transfer of 
insurance contracts that do not form a business or in a business combination within the scope of SLFRS 
3. 
... 

<!-- page 38 -->

38A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022 
Paragraphs C24A‒C24B and the heading above paragraphs C24A‒C24B are added. New text is 
underlined. 
Asset for insurance acquisition cash flows 
C24A In applying the fair value approach for an asset for insurance acquisition cash flows (see paragraph 
C5B(b)), at the transition date, an entity shall determine an asset for insurance acquisition cash flows at 
an amount equal to the insurance acquisition cash flows the entity would incur at the transition date for 
the rights to obtain: 
(a) recoveries of insurance acquisition cash flows from premiums of insurance contracts issued
before the transition date but not recognised at the transition date;
(b) future insurance contracts that are renewals of insurance contracts recognised at the date of the
transaction and insurance contracts described in (a); and
(c) future insurance contracts, other than those in (b), after the date of the transaction without paying
again insurance acquisition cash flows the acquiree has already paid that are directly attributable
to the related portfolio of insurance contracts.
C24B At the transition date, the entity shall exclude from the measurement of any groups of insurance  
contracts the amount of any asset for insurance acquisition cash flows. 
Paragraph C34 is amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through.  
Withdrawal of other SLFRS Standards 
C34 SLFRS 17 supersedes SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts, as amended in 20202016. 
Amendments to Appendix D—Amendments to other SLFRS Standards 
This appendix sets out the amendments to other Standards that are a consequence of the Council 
amending SLFRS 17 Insurance Contracts in June 2020. An entity shall apply these amendments 
when it applies SLFRS 17. 
SLFRS 3 Business Combinations 
In the amendments to SLFRS 3 Business Combinations , paragraphs 31A and 64N are amended. 
New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through. 
…. 

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    39A
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022 
Insurance contracts 
31A The acquirer shall measure a group of contracts within the scope of SLFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 
acquired in a business combination , and any assets for insurance acquisition cash flows as defined in 
SLFRS 17, as a liability or asset in accordance with paragraphs 39 and B93–B95FB95 of SLFRS 17, at 
the acquisition date. 
... 
Effective date 
... 
64N SLFRS 17, issued in May 2017, amended paragraphs 17, 20, 21, 35 and B63, and after paragraph 31 
added a heading and paragraph 31A.Amendments to SLFRS 17, issued in June 2020, amended paragraph 
31A. An entity shall apply the amendments to paragraph 17 to business combinations with an 
acquisition date after the date of initial application of SLFRS 17. An entity shall app ly the otherthose 
amendments when it applies SLFRS 17. 
... 
SLFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 
In the amendments to SLFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, paragraphs 3 and 44DD are 
amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through. 
Scope 
3 This SLFRS shall be applied by all entities to all types of financial instruments, except:  
... 
(d) insurance contracts as defined incontracts within the scope of SLFRS 17 Insurance Contracts or
investment contracts with discretionary participation features within the scope of SLFRS 17 .
However, this SLFRS applies to:
(i) derivatives that are embedded in contracts within the scope of SLFRS 17, if SLFRS 9
requires the entity to account for them separately.; and
(ii) investment components that are separated from contracts within the scope of SLFRS
17, if SLFRS 17 requires such separation , unless the separated investment component
is an investment contract with discretionary participation features.
(iii) an issuer’s rights and obligations arising under insurance contracts that meet the
definition of Moreover, an issuer shall apply this SLFRS to financial guarantee
contracts, if the issuer applies SLFRS 9 in recognising and measuring the contracts .
However, the issuer, but shall apply SLFRS 17 if the issuer elects, in accordance with
paragraph 7(e) of SLFRS 17, to apply SLFRS 17 in recognising and measuring the
contractsthem.

<!-- page 40 -->

40A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022 
(iv) an entity’s rights and obligations that are financial instruments arising under credit card
contracts, or similar contracts that provide credit or payment arrangements, that an
entity issues that meet the definition of an insurance contract if the entity applies SLFRS
9 to those rights and obligations in accordance with paragr aph 7(h) of SLFRS 17 and
paragraph 2.1(e)(iv) of SLFRS 9.
(v) an entity’s rights and obligations that are financial instruments arising under insurance
contracts that an entity issues that limit the compensation for insured events to the
amount otherwise r equired to settle the policyholder’s obligation created by the
contract, if the entity elects, in accordance with paragraph 8A of SLFRS 17, to apply
SLFRS 9 instead of SLFRS 17 to such contracts.
(e) ...
... 
Effective date and transition 
... 
44DD SLFRS 17, issued in May 2017, amended paragraphs 3, 8 and 29 and deleted paragraph 
30. Amendments to SLFRS 17 , issued in June 2020, further amended paragraph 3.  An entity shall
apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 17.
SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
In the amendments to SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, paragraphs 2.1 and 7.1.6 are amended. A 
new heading and paragraphs 7.2.36 –7.2.42 are added. New text is underlined and deleted text is 
struck through.  
Chapter 2 Scope 
2.1 This Standard shall be applied by all entities to all types of financial instruments except: 
... 
(e) rights and obligations arising under an insurance contract as defined in a contract within
the scope of  SLFRS 17 Insurance Contracts, other than an issuer’s rights and obligations
arising under an insurance contract that meets the definition of a financial guarantee 
contractor an investment contract with discretionary participation features within the 
scope of SLFRS 17. However, this Standard applies to: 
(i) derivativesa derivative that areis embedded in contractsa contract within the scope
of SLFRS 17, if the derivatives are not themselves contracts derivative is not itself
a contract within the scope of SLFRS 17.; and
(ii) investment components an investment component  that areis separated from
contractsa contract  within the scope of SLFRS 17, if SLFRS 17 requires such
separation, unless the separated investment component is an investment contract
with discretionary participation features within the scope of SLFRS 17 .
(iii) an iss uer’s rights and obligations under insurance contracts that meet the
definition of a financial guarantee contract. However Moreover, if an issuer of
financial guarantee contracts has previously asserted explicitly that it regards such
contracts as insurance  contracts and has used accounting that is applicable to

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    41A
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022 
insurance contracts, the issuer may elect to apply either this Standard or SLFRS 
17 to such financial guarantee contracts (see paragraphs B2.5 –B2.6). The issuer 
may make that election contract by con tract, but the election for each contract is 
irrevocable. 
(iv) an entity’s rights and obligations that are financial instruments arising under
credit card contracts, or similar contracts that provide credit or payment
arrangements, that an entity issues th at meet the definition of an insurance
contract but which paragraph 7(h) of SLFRS 17 excludes from the scope of SLFRS
17. However, if, and only if, the insurance coverage is a contractual term of such a
financial instrument, the entity shall separate that component and apply SLFRS 17 
to it (see paragraph 7(h) of SLFRS 17). 
(v) an entity’s rights and obligations that are financial instruments arising under
insurance contracts that an entity issues that limit the compensation for insured
events to the amount otherwise required to settle the policyholder’s obligation
created by the contract, if the entity elects, in accordance with paragraph 8A of
SLFRS 17, to apply SLFRS 9 instead of SLFRS 17 to such contracts.
(f) ...
...
Chapter 7 Effective date and transition 
7.1 Effective date 
... 
7.1.6 SLFRS 17, issued in May 2017, amended paragraphs 2.1, B2.1, B2.4, B2.5 and B4.1.30, and added 
paragraph 3.3.5. Amendments to SLFRS 17 , issued in June 2020, further amended paragraph 2.1 and 
added paragraphs 7.2.36‒7.2.42. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 17. 
... 
7.2 Transition 
... 
Transition for SLFRS 17 as amended in June 2020 
7.2.36 An entity shall apply the amendments to SLFRS 9 made by SLFRS 17 as amended in June 2020 
retrospectively in accordance with LKAS 8, except as specified in paragraphs 7.2.37 –⁠7.2.42. 
7.2.37 An entity that first applies SLFRS 17 as amended in June 2020 at the same time it first applies this 
Standard shall apply paragraphs 7.2.1–7.2.28 instead of paragraphs 7.2.38–7.2.42. 
7.2.38 An entity that first applies SLFRS 17 as amended in June 2020 after it first applies this Standard shall 
apply paragraphs 7.2.39 –7.2.42. The entity shall also apply the other transition requirements in this 
Standard necessary for applying these amendments. For that purpose, references to the date of initial 
application shall be read as referring to the beginning of the reporting period in which an entity first 
applies these amendments (date of initial application of these amendments).  

<!-- page 42 -->

42A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
7.2.39 With regard to designating a financial liability as measured at fair value through profit or loss, an 
entity: 
(a) shall revoke its previous designation of a financial liability as measured at fair value through 
profit or loss if that designation was previo usly made in accordance with the condition in 
paragraph 4.2.2(a) but that condition is no longer satisfied as a result of the application of these 
amendments; and 
(b) may designate a financial liability as measured at fair value through profit or loss if t hat 
designation would not have previously satisfied the condition in paragraph 4.2.2(a) but that 
condition is now satisfied as a result of the application of these amendments. 
Such a designation and revocation shall be made on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist 
at the date of initial application of these amendments. That classification shall be applied 
retrospectively. 
7.2.40 An entity is not required to restate prior periods to reflect the application of these amendments. The 
entity may restate prior periods only if it is possible to do so without the use of hindsight. If an entity 
restates prior periods, the restated financial statements must reflect all the requirements in this 
Standard for the affected financial instruments. If an entity  does not restate prior periods, the entity 
shall recognise any difference between the previous carrying amount and the carrying amount at the 
beginning of the annual reporting period that includes the date of initial application of these 
amendments in the  opening retained earnings (or other component of equity, as appropriate) of the 
annual reporting period that includes the date of initial application of these amendments.  
7.2.41 In the reporting period that includes the date of initial application of thes e amendments, an entity is 
not required to present the quantitative information required by paragraph 28(f) of LKAS 8.  
7.2.42 In the reporting period that includes the date of initial application of these amendments, the entity 
shall disclose the following information as at that date of initial application for each class of financial 
assets and financial liabilities that was affected by these amendments: 
(a) the previous classification, including the previous measurement category when applicable, and 
carrying amount determined immediately before applying these amendments; 
(b) the new measurement category and carrying amount determined after applying these 
amendments; 
(c) the carrying amount of any financial liabilities in the statement of financial position that were 
previously designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss but are no longer so 
designated; and 
(d) the reasons for any designation or de -designation of financial liabilities as measured at fair 
value through profit or loss. 
LKAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements 
 
In the amendments to LKAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements paragraphs 54 and 139R 
are amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through. 
 
Information to be presented in the statement of financial position 
54 The statement of financial position shall include line items that present the following amounts:  
...  

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    43A
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022 
(da) portfoliosgroups of contracts within the scope of SLFRS 17 that are assets, disaggregated 
as required by paragraph 78 of SLFRS 17; 
... 
(ma) portfoliosgroups of contracts within the scope of SLFRS 17 that are liabilities, 
disaggregated as required by paragraph 78 of SLFRS 17; 
... 
Transition and effective date 
... 
139R SLFRS 17, issued in May 2017, amended paragraphs 7, 54 and 82. Amendments to SLFRS 17, issued in 
June 2020, further amended paragraph 54. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 
17. 
... 
LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation 
In the amendments to LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation  paragraphs 4  and 97T are 
amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through. 
Scope 
4 This Standard shall be applied by all entities to all types of financial instruments except:  
... 
(d) insurance contracts as defined in contracts within the scope of  SLFRS 17 Insurance
Contracts or investment contracts with discretionary participation features within the scope
of SLFRS 17. However, this Standard applies to:
(i) derivatives that are embedded in contracts within the scope of SLFRS 17, if SLFRS
9 requires the entity to account for them separately.; and
(ii) investment components that are separated from contracts within the scope of
SLFRS 17, if SLFRS 17 requires such separation, unless the separated investment
component is an investment contract with discretionary participation features
within the scope of SLFRS 17.
(iii) an issuer’s rights and obligations arising under insurance contracts that meet the
definition ofMoreover, an issuer shall apply this Standard to  financial guarantee
contracts, if the issuer applies SLFRS 9 in recognising and measuring the
contracts. However, the issuer , but shall apply SLFRS 17 if the issuer elects, in
accordance with paragraph 7(e) of SLFRS 17, to apply SLFRS 17 in recognising
and measuring the contractsthem.
(iv) an entity's rights and obligations that are financial instruments arising under
credit card contracts, or similar contracts that provide credit or payment
arrangements, that an entity issues that meet the definition of an insurance

<!-- page 44 -->

44A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
contract if the entity applies SLFRS 9 to those rights and obligations in accordance 
with paragraph 7(h) of SLFRS 17 and paragraph 2.1(e)(iv) of SLFRS 9.  
(v) an entity's rights and obligations that are financial instruments arising under 
insurance contracts that an entity issues tha t limit the compensation for insured 
events to the amount otherwise required to settle the policyholder's obligation 
created by the contract if the entity elects, in accordance with paragraph 8A of 
SLFRS 17, to apply SLFRS 9 instead of SLFRS 17 to such contracts. 
 ... 
Effective date and transition 
 ... 
97T SLFRS 17, issued in May 2017, amended paragraphs 4, AG8 and AG36, and added paragraph 
33A.Amendments to SLFRS 17 , issued in June 2020, further amended paragraph 4.  An entity shall 
apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 17. 
LKAS 36 Impairment of Assets 
 
In the amendments to LKAS 36 Impairment of Assets  paragraphs 2 and 140N are amended. New 
text is underlined. 
 
Scope 
2 This Standard shall be applied in accounting for the impairment of all assets, other than: 
...  
(h) contracts within the scope of SLFRS 17 Insurance Contracts that are assets and any assets 
for insurance acquisition cash flows as defined in SLFRS 17; and 
 … 
 
Transition provisions and effective date 
 ... 
140N SLFRS 17, issued in May 2017, amended paragraph 2.  Amendments to SLFRS 17 , issued in June 
2020, further amended paragraph 2. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 
17. 
 
LKAS 38 Intangible Assets 
 
In the amendments to LKAS 36 Impairment of Assets paragraphs 2 and 140N are amended. New 
text is underlined. 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    45A
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022 
Scope 
... 
3 If another Standard prescribes the accounting for a specific type of intangible asset, an entity applies that 
Standard instead of this Standard. For example, this Standard does not apply to: 
... 
(g) contracts within the scope of SLFRS 17 Insurance Contracts  and any assets for insurance
acquisition cash flows as defined in SLFRS 17.
(h) ...
... 
Transitional provisions and effective date 
... 
130M SLFRS 17, issued in May 2017, amended paragraph 3.Amendments to SLFRS 17, issued in June 2020, 
further amended paragraph 3. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 17
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA 
EOG 09-0047