

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2104$4 - 2018 foieïn¾ ui 31 jeks i÷od - 2018'12'31
No. 2104/4 - MONDAY,  DECEMBER  31, 2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
 INLAND  REVENUE  ACT,  No.  24  OF  2017
Regulations under Section 194 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
REGULATIONS made under Section 194 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 (hereinafter referred as the Act) for
the purpose of Section 76, 77 and 78 of the Act.
These regulations operate effective from April 1, 2018 and rescind the Regulations published in the Gazette
Extraordinary No. 1823/5 of August 12, 2013, effective from the same date.
MANGALA  S AMARAWEERA ,
Minister of Finance and Mass Media.
 Colombo 01,
December 31, 2018.
REGULATIONS  ON  TRANSFER  PRICING
Short Title and Commencement
These regulations may be cited as the Regulations on Transfer Pricing No. 1 of 2018 and come into operation
with effect from April 01, 2018.
1. Transfer Pricing Regulations apply to International Transactions referred to in Section 76 and to the following
cases of transactions other than international transactions made between associated enterprises referred to in
Section 77 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017:
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A - PG  4341 — 117  (01/2019)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
2A
(a) If there are tax exemptions granted to any one of the associated enterprises under the Inland Revenue Act,
No. 38 of 2000 or Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 or No. 24 of 2017 or under the Board of Investment
of Sri Lanka Law No. 4 of 1978  ; or
(b) If any difference between income tax rates specified in any of the Schedules to the Act or any income tax
rate given in the agreement entered into under the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law No. 4 of 1978 is
applicable to any one of the associated enterprises ; or
(c) If any loss incurred by any of the associated enterprises for the year of assessment or immediately preceding
years of assessment which has been brought forward to that year of assessment.
2. Arm’s Length Price.- The arm’s length price, referred to in Section 76 and Section 77 of the Act for the purpose
of ascertaining income, gain or profits arising in, derived or accruing from or losses incurred in any transaction,
operation or scheme entered into between two associated enterprises (hereinafter referred to as the controlled
transaction) should be calculated in accordance with the arm’s length principle. The arm’s length principle shall be
understood as that where a transaction between associated enterprises is carried out taking into account the terms
and conditions that would have been used in transcations with or between independent enterprises.
(A) The arm’s length price shall be determined by the application of the most appropriate method to the
facts and circumstances of the case from any of the methods outlined below  :
(a) Comparable Uncontrolled Price Method
The comparable uncontrolled price method consists of comparing the price charged for property or
services transferred in a controlled transaction to the price charged for property or services transferred
in a comparable uncontrolled transaction.
Under this method,
(i) the price charged or paid for property transferred or services provided in a comparable
uncontrolled transaction, or a number of such transactions, is identified ;
(ii) such price is adjusted to account for differences, if any between the controlled transaction and
comparable uncontrolled transactions or between the enterprises entering into such transactions,
which could materially affect the price in the open market ;
(iii) the adjusted price so arrived at is taken to be an arm’s length price in respect of the property
transferred or services provided in the controlled transcations.
(b) Resale Price Method
The resale price method consists of comparing the resale margin that a purchaser of property in a
controlled transaction earns from reselling that property with the resale margin that is earned in
comparable uncontrolled purchase and resale transaction.
Under this method,
(i) the price at which property purchased by the tested enterprise from an associated enterprise is
resold to  any person, is identified ;
(ii) such resale price is reduced by an appropriate gross profit margin accruing to the tested enterprise
based on the gross profit margins that would be earned in comparable uncontrolled transactions,
with or between unrelated enterprises ;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
3A
(iii) the price so arrived at is further reduced by the expenses incurred by the tested enterprise in
connection with the purchase of property ;
(iv) the price so arrived at is adjusted to take into account the functional and other differences,
including differences in accounting practices, if any, between the controlled transaction and the
comparable uncontrolled transactions, or between the enterprises entering into such transactions,
which could materially affect the amount of gross profit margin in the open market ;
(v) the adjusted price arrived at under sub-paragraph (iv) of this paragraph is taken to be an arm’s
length price in respect of the purchase of the property  by the tested enterprise  from the associated
enterprise.
(c) Cost Plus Method
The cost plus method consists of comparing the mark up on those costs directly and indirectly incurred
in the supply of property or services in a controlled transaction with the mark up on those costs directly
and indirectly incurred in the supply of property or services in a comparable uncontrolled transaction.
Under this method,
(i) the direct an indirect costs of production incurred by the tested enterprise in respect of property
transferred or services provided to an associated enterprise, are determined ;
(ii) the amount of an appropriate gross profit mark-up to such costs (computed according to the
same accounting norms) arising from the transfer or provision of the same or simillar property
or services by the tested enterprise, or by an unrelated enterprise, in a comparable uncontrolled
transaction, or a number of such transactions, is determined ;
(iii) the appropriate gross profit mark-up referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph is adjusted
to take into account the functional and other differences, if any between the controlled transaction
and the comparable uncontrolled tranactions, or between the enterprises entering into such
transactions, which could materially affect such proift mark-up in the open market ;
(iv) the costs referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph are increased by the adjusted profit
mark-up arrived at under sub-paragraph (iii) of this paragraph ;
(v) the sum so arrived at is taken to be an arm’s length price in relation to the supply of the property
or provision of services by the tested enterprise.
(d) Transactional Net Margin Method
The transactional net margin method consists of comparing the net profit margin relative to an
appropriate base, such as costs, sales or assets that a person achieves in a controlled transaction with
the net profit margin relative to the same base achieved in comparable uncontrolled transations.
Under this method,
(i) the net profit margin realized by the tested enterprise from a transaction entered into with an
associated enterprise is computed in relation to costs incurred or sales effected or assets employed
by the tested enterprise or having regard to any other relevant base ;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
4A
(ii) the net profit margin realized by the tested enterprise or by an unrelated enterprise from a
comparable uncontrolled transaction or a number of such transactions is computed having regard
to the same  basis ;
(iii) the net profit margin referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph arising in comparable
uncontrolled transactions is adjusted to take into account the differences, if any, between the
tansaction and the comparable uncontrolled transactions, or between the enterprises entering
into such transactions, which could materially affect the amount of net profit margin in the open
market ;
(iv) the net profit margin realized by the tested enterprise and referred to in sub-paragrph (i) of this
paragraph is established to be the same as the net profit margin referred to in sub-paragraph (iii)
of this paragraph ;
(v) the net profit margin thus established is then taken into account to arrive at an arm’s length price
in relation to the transaction.
(e) Profit Split Method
This method may be applicable mainly where special conditions have been made or imposed in controlled
transactions or in multiple transactions which are so interrelated that they cannot be evaluated separately
for the purposoe of determining the arm’s length price of any transaction, by which
(i) the combined net profits of the associated enterprises arising from the transction in which they
are engaged, are determined ;
(ii) the relative contributions made by each of the associated enterprises to the earning of such
combined net profits are then calculated based upon a reasonable approximation of the division
of profits that independent entrerprises would have expected to realize from engaging in
comparable transactions on the basis of the functions performed, assets employed and risks
assumded by each enterprise ;
(iii) the combined net profits are then split amongst the  enterprises in proportion to their relative
contributions ;
(iv) the profit thus apportioned to the tested enterprise is taken into account to arrive at an arm’s
length price in relation to the controlled transaction ;
Provided that the combined net profits referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph may, in
the first instance, be partially allocated to each enterprise so as to provide it with a basic return
appropriate for the type of routine functionality in which it is engaged, with reference to market
returns achieved for similar types of functions by independent enterprises, and thereafter, the
residual net profit remaing after such allocation may be split amongst the enterprises in proportion
to their unique and valuable contributions, and in such a case the aggregate of the net profit
allocated to the tested enterprise in the first instance together with the residual net profit
apportioned to that tested enterprise on the basis of its unique and valuable contributions shall be
taken to be the net profit arising to that tested enterprises from the controlled transaction.
Provided that where there are two or more independent transactions, all being equally comparable to
the controlled transaction entered into between associated enterprises, a range of prices or profit
margins may be obtained derived from the application of the most appropriate method. This arm’s
length range shall be used to calculate the arm’s length price.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
5A
(B) Arm’s Length Range
An arm’s length range is a range of relevant financial indicator figures (e. g. prices or margins) produced by
the application of the most appropriate transfer pricing method as set out in this regulation, to a number of
uncontrolled transcations with a relatively equal degree of comparability to the controlled transaction based
on a comparability anylysis conducted in accordance with Regulation 3. For the purpose of this paragraph
fourtieth to sixtieth percentile is considered to be the arm’s length range.
Where the actual price for a controlled transaction between associated enterprises is within the arm’s length
range, the actural price shall be treated as the arm’s length price for such transaction.
Where the actual price for a controlled transaction between associated enterprirses is not within the arm’s
length range, the median in the arm’s length range shall be treated as the arm’s length price for such transcation.
For the purposes of this paragraph, the median of the arm’s length range shall be the 50th percentile of the
financial indicator figures derived from the comparable uncontrolled transactions forming the arm’s length
range.
3. Comparability Factors - For the purposes of Regulation 2, the comparability of a controlled transaction between
associated enterprises with uncontrolled transactions shall be judged with reference to the following.
(a) the contractual terms (whether or not such terms are formal or in writing) of the controlled transaction
which lay down explicitly or implicitly how the responsibilities, risks and benefits are to be divided between
the respective parties to such transctions ;
(b) the functions performed, taking into account assets employed and the risks assumed, by the respective parties
to such transactions ;
(c) the specific characteristics of the property transferred or services provided in such transaction ;
(d) the economic circumstances and business strategies related to such transactions between associated
enterprises, specifying the conditions prevailing in the markets in which the respective associated enterprises
to such transactions operate, including the geographical location and size of the markets, the laws and
Government orders in force, costs of labour and capital in the markets, overall economic development and
level of competition and whether the markets are wholesale or retail, among other.
4. Comparability. - An uncontrolled transaction shall be comparable to a controlled transaction, if ;
(i) none of the differences, if any, between the transaction being compared, are likely to materially affect the
conditions being examined in the methodology ( e. g. price or profit margin) ; or
(ii) resonable accurate adjustments can be made to eliminate the material effect of such differences.
The data to be used in analyzing the comparability of an uncontrolled transaction with a controlled transcation
shall be the data relating to the year of assessment in which such transaction has been entered into.
Provided that data relating to a period not being more than two years prior to such year of assessment may also be
considered if such data reveals facts which could have an influence on the determination of transfer prices in
relation to the transactions being compared.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
6A
5. Most Appropriate Method
(a) For the purposes of Regulation 2, the most appropriate method shall be the method which is best suited to
the facts and circumstances of each particular controlled transction  between associated enterprises, and
which provides the most reliable measure of an arm’s length price in relation to such transaction.
(b) In selecting the most appropriate method, the follwoing factors shall be taken into account, namely ;
(i) the nature and class of such transcation based on the functions performed, the assets employed and
risks assumed by associated enterprises entering into such transaction ;
(ii) the availability, coverage and reliability of data (in particular on uncontrolled comparable transactions)
necessary for the application of the method ;
(iii) the degree of comparability existing between controlled transaction and the uncontrolled transcations ;
(iv) the extent to which reliable and accurate adjustments can be made to account for differences, if any,
between controlled transcation and the comparable uncontrolled transactions.
6. Transfer Pricing Documentation and Disclosure Form - Enterprises carrying out controlled transactions with
associated enterprises subject to Section 76 and 77, as the case may be, must maintain documents and submit
information regarding controlled transactions, including information on those associated enterprises, as follows.
(a) Preparing and Maintaining Transfer Pricing Documentation
Enterprises carrying out controlled transaction with associated enterpises subject to Section 76 and/or 77,
as the case may be, shall be responsible for preparing and maintining transfer pricing documentation
including :
(i) Local File referring specifically to material and controlled transcations of the local taxpayer, according
to Annexure I ;
(ii) Master File containing standardised information relevant for all the members of a multinational group,
according to Annexure II ;
(iii) Cou ntry-by-Country Report containing certain information relating to the global allocation of the
multinational group’s income and taxes paid together with certain indicators of the location of economic
activity within the group, according to Annexure III.
The Local File referred to in the above item (i) is to be prepared and maintained by those enterprises
that carry out controlled transcations  or each category of controlled transactions with associated
enterprises exceed Sri Lankan Rupees (LKR) 200 million for each year of assessment as recorded in
th books of account. The local file must be prepared in English in the case of international transactions.
The Local file should be kept available for a period of six years from the end of the relevant year of
assessment, and it should include the information specified in Annexure I  of this Regulation (The
transaction here does not include dividened and granting or repayment of loan capital)
The Master File referred to in the above item (ii) is to be prepared and maintained by those enterprises
that have declared revenue whose value exceeds LKR 7.5 billion for each year of assessment as recorded
in the books of account. The Master file which is maintained in English should include the information
specified in Annexure II of this Regulation.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
7A
The Country-by-Country Report referred to in above item (iii) is to be prepared and filed according to
paragraph (e) of this Regulation.
(b) Non Requirement of Maintaining Fresh Documents
Where any controlled transaction continues to have effect over more than one year of assessment, fresh
documentation need not be maintained separately in respect of each year of assessment, unless there is any
significant change in the nature or terms of such transction, in the assumptions made, or in any other facto
which could influence the transfer price, and in case of such significant change, fresh documentation as may
be necessary under this Regulation shall be maintained bringing out the impact of change on the pricing of
such transcation.
In case the taxpayer’s operation reflects no significant change, the searches in databases for comparables
should be updated every three years instead of annually. Financial data for the comparables should nonetheless
be updated every year in order to apply the arm’s length principle reliably.
Notwithstanding the above, the substantial obilgation of complying with the arm’s length principle in controlled
transactions with associated entreprises remains mandatory for all taxpayers and therefore, they shall be
required to substantiate on the basis of documents mentioned in above paragraph (a) or on the basis of any
other material available with them when the notice is sent to the taxpayer.
(c) Submission of Transfer Pricing Documentation
The transfer pricing documentation specified in Regulation 6(a)(i) and 6(a)(ii) shall be provided by the
taxpayer within 30 calendar days of the written request being duly issued by the Commissioner General of
Inland Revenue (herein after referred to as Commissioner General).
The obligation of the taxpayer to provide  this documentation is established without prejudice to the power
of the Commissioner General to request additional information that in the course of audit procedures it
deems necessary to carry out its functions.
(d) Preparation and Submission of Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form
Enterprises that carry out controlled transactions or categories of controlled transactions with associated
enterprises are obliged to prepare and file an annual transfer pricing disclosure form along with the Return
of Income as per the format and under the conditions disclosed in Annexure IV .
(e) Submission of Country-by- Country Report (“CbCR”) of the ultimate parent company according to
Annexure III
(I) Definitions
For purposes of paragraph (e) of this regulation the following terms have the following meanings :
(i) The term “ Group” means a collection of enterprises related through ownership or control such
that it is either required to prepare Consolidated Financial Statements for financial reporting
purposes under applicable accounting principles or would be so required if equity interests in
any of the enterprises were traded on a public securities exchange.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
8A
(ii) The term “MNE Group” means any Group that :
(a) includes two or more enterprises the tax residence for which is in different jurisdiction, or
includes an enterprise that is resident for tax purposes in one jurisdiction and is subject to
tax with respect to the business carried out through a permanent establishment in another
jurisdiction, and
(b) is not an Excluded MNE Group.
(iii) The term “Excluded MNE Group” means, with respect to any Fiscal Year of the Group, a Group
having total consolidated group revenue of less than 115 billion Sri Lankan Rupees during the
Fiscal Year immediately preceding the Reporting Fiscal Year as reflected in its consolidated
Financial Statements for such preceding Fiscal Year.
(iv) The terms “ Constituent Entity ” means :
(a) any separate business entity of an MNE Group that is included in the Consolidated Financial
Statements of the MNE Group for financial reporting purposes, or would be so included if
equity interests in such business unit of an MNE Group were traded on a public securities
exchange ;
(b) any such business entity that is excluded from the MNE Group’s Consolidated Financial
Statements solely on size or materiality grounds ; and
(c) any permanent establishment of an separate business entity of the MNE Group included in
(a) or (b) of above item (ii) provided the business entity prepares a separate financial
statement for such permanent establishment for financial reporting, regulatory, tax reporting,
or internal management control purposes.
(v) The term “ Reporting Entity” means the Constituent Entity that is required to file a country-by-
country report conforming to the requirements specified in sub-paragraph (IV) of paragraph (e)
of this regulation in its jurisdiction of tax residence on behalf of the MNE Group. The Reporting
Entity may be the Ultimate Parent Entity, the Surrogate Parent Entity, or any entity described in
item (ii) of sub paragraph (II) of paragraph (e) of this Regulation.
(vi) The term “ Ultimate Parent Entity” means a Consituent Entity of an MNE Group that meets the
following criteria :
(a) it owns directly or indriectly a sufficient interest in one or more other Constituent Entities
of such MNE Group such that it is required to prepare Consolidated Financial Statements
under accounting principles generally applied in its jurisdiction of tax residence, or would
be so required if its equity interests were traded on a public securities exchange in its
jurisdiction of tax residence ; and
(b) there is no other Constituent Entity of such MNE Group that owns directly or indirectly an
insterest described in sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph (vi) above in the first mentioned
Constituent Entity.
(vii) The term “ Surrogate Parent Entity ” means one Constituent Entity of the MNE Group that has
been appointed by such MNE Group, as a sole substitute for the Ultimate Parent Entity, to file
the Country-by-Country Report in that Constituent Entity’s jurisdiction of tax residence, on
behalf of such MNE Group, when one or more of the conditions set out in Subitem (b) of item
(ii) of sub paragraph (II) of paragraph (e) of this Regulation applies.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
9A
(viii) The term “ Fiscal Year” means an annual accounting period with respect to which the Ultimate
Parent Entity of the MNE Group prepares its financial statements.
(ix) The term “Reporting Fiscal Year” means that Fiscal Yar the financial and operational results of
which are reflected in the Country-by Country Report defined in sub-paragraph (IV) of paragraph
(e) of this regulation.
(x) The term “ Qualifying Competent Authority Agreement ” means an agreement that,
(a) is between authorised representatives of those jurisdictions that are parties to an
International Agreement , and
(b) requires the automatic exchange of Country-by-Country Reports between the parties to
the Agreement.
(xi) The term “ International Agreement ” shall mean any bilateral or multilateral Agreement for
Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, any bilateral or multilateral Tax Agreement, or
any Tax Information Exchange Agreement to which Sri Lanka is a party, and that by its terms
provides legal authority for the exchange of tax information between jurisdictions, including
automatic exchange of such information.
(xii) The term “ Consolidated Financial Statements ” means the financial statements of an MNE
Group in which the assets, liabilties, income, expenses and cash flows of the Ultimate Parent
Entity and the Constituent Entitis are presented as those of a single economic entity.
(xiii) The term “ Systemic Failure ” with respect to a jurisdiction means that a jurisdiction has a
Qualifying Competent Authority Agreement in effect with Sri Lanka, but has suspended automatic
exchange (for reasons other than those that are in accordance with the terms of that Agreement)
or otherwise persistently failed to automatically provide to Sri Lanka Country-by-Country Reports
in its possession of MNE Groups that have Constituent Entities in Sri Lanka.
(II) Filing Obligation
(i) Each Ultimate Parent Entity of the MNE Group that is resident for tax purposes in Sri Lanka
shall file a Country-by-Country Report conforming to the requirements of sub-paragraph (IV)
of paragraph (e) of this regulation with the Commissioner General of the Inland Revenue with
respect to its Reporting Fiscal Year on or before the date specified in sub-paragraph (V) of
paragraph (e) of this regulation.
(ii) A Constituent Entity which is not the Ultimate Parent Entity of an MNE Group shall file as
Country-by-Country Report conforming to the requirements of sub-paragraph (IV) of paragraph
(e) of this regulation with the Commissioner General of the Inland Revenue with respect to the
Reporting Fiscal Year of an MNE Group of which it is a Constituent Entity, on or before the date
specified in sub-paragraph (V) of paragraph (e) of this regulation if the following criteria are
satisfied :
(a) the entity is resident for tax purposes in Sri Lanka and
(b) one of the following conditions applies :

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
10A
(aa) the Ultimate Parent Entity of the MNE Group is not obligated to file a Country-by-Country
Report in its jurisdiction of tax residence ; or
(bb) the jurisdiction in which th Ultimate Parent Entity is resident for tax purposes has a current
International Agreement to which Sri Lanka is a party but does not have a Qualifying
Competent Authority Agreement in effect to which Sri Lanka is a party by the time specified
in sub-paragraph (V) of paragraph (e) of this Regulation for filing the Country-by-Country
Report for the Reporting Fiscal Year ; or
(cc) there has been a Systemic Failure of the j urisdiction of tax residence of the Ultimate
Parent Entity that has been notified by the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue to the
Constituent Entity resident for tax purposes in Sri Lanka.
(iii) Where  there are more than one Constituent Entities of the same MNE Group that are resident
for tax purposes in Sri Lanka and one or more of the conditions set out in subsection (ii) above
apply, the MNE Group may designate one of such Constituent Entities to file the Country-by-
Country Report conforming to the requirements of sub-paragraph (IV) of paragraph (e) of this
Regulation with the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue with respect to any Reporting
Fiscal Year on or before the date specified in sub-paragraph (V) of paragraph (e) this Regulation,
and to notify the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue that the filing is intended to satisfy
the filing requirement of all the Constituent Entities of such MNE Group that are resident for tax
purposes in Sri Lanka.
(iv) Notwithstanding the provisions of item (ii) of sub-paragraph (II) of paragraph (e) of this Regulation,
when one or more of the conditions set out in sub-item (b) of item (ii) of sub-paragraph (II) of
paragraph (e) of this Regulation apply, an entity described in item (ii) of sub-paragraph (II) of
paragraph (e) of this Regulation shall not be required to file a Country-by-Country Report with
the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue with respect to any Reporting Fiscal Year if the
MNE Group of which it is a Constituent Entity has made available a Country-by-Country Report
conforming to the requirements of sub-paragaph (IV) of paragraph (e) of this Regulation with
respect to such Fiscal Year through a Surogate Parent Entity that files that Country-by-Country
Report with the tax authority of its jurisdiction of tax residence on or before the date specified
in sub-paragraph (V) of paragraph (e) of this Regulation and that satisfies the following conditions:
(a) the jurisdiction of tax residence of the Surrogate Parent Entity requires filing of Country-
by-Country Report conforming to the requiremens of sub-paragraph (IV) of paragraph (e)
of this Regulation ;
(b) the jurisdiction of tax residence of the Surrogate Parent Entity has a Qualifying Competent
Authority Agreement in effect to which Sri Lanka is a party by the time specified in sub-
paragraph (V) of paragraph (e) of the Regulation for filing the Country-by-Country Report
for the Reporting Fiscal Year ;
(c) the jurisdicton of tax residence of the Surrogate Parent Entity has not notified the
Commissioner General of Inland Revenue of a Systemic Failure ;
(d) the jurisdiction of tax residence of the Surrogate Parent Entity has been notified in
accordance with item (i) of sub-paragraph (III) of paragraph (e) of this Regulation by the
Constituent Entity resident for tax purposes in its jurisdiction that it is the Surrogate Parent
Entity ; and
(e) a notification has been provided to the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue in
accordance with item (ii) of sub-paragraph (III) of paragraph (e) of this Regulation.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
11A
(III) Notification
(i) Any Constituent Entity of an MNE Group that is resident for tax purposes in Sri Lanka shall
notify the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue Department whether it is the Ultimate Parent
Entity or the Surrogate Parent Entity, not later than December 31st of the Reporting Fiscal Year
of such MNE Group.
(ii) Where a Constituent Entity of an MNE Group that is resident for tax purposes in Sri Lanka is not
the Ultimate Parent Entity nor the Surrogate Parent Entity, it shall notify the Commissioner
General of Inland Revenue of the identity and tax residence of the Reporting Entity, no later than
December 31st of the Reporting Fiscal Year of such MNE Group.
(IV) Country-by-Country Report
(i) For the purposes of Paragraph (e) of this Regulation, a Country-by-Country Report with respect
to an MNE Group is a report containing :
(a) Aggregate information relating to the amount of revenue, proft (loss) before income tax,
income tax paid, income tax accured, stated capital, accumulated earnings, number of
employees, and tangible assets other than cash or cash equivalents with regard to each
jurisdiction in which the MNE Group operates ;
(b) An identification of each Constituent Entity of the MNE Group setting out the jursdication
of tax residence of such Constitutent Entity, and where different from such jurisdiction of
tax residence, the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Contituent Entity is organized,
and the nature of the main business activity or activities of suh Constituent Entity.
(ii) The Country-by-Country Report shall be filed in a form identical to and applying the definitions
and instructions contained in the standard template set out at Annexture III of this Gazette
Notification .
(V) Time of filing
The Country-by-Country Report required by Paragraph (e) of this Regulation shall be filed no later
than 12 months after the last day of the Reporting Fisal Year of the MNE Group.
(VI) Use and Preserve Confidentiality of Country-by-Country Report Information
(i) The Transfer Pricing Officers shall use the Country-by-Country Report for purposes of assessing
high-level transfer pricing risks and other base erosion  and proift shifting related risks in Sri
Lanka, including assessing the risk of non-compliance by members of the MNE Group with
applicable transfer pricing rules, and where appropriate for economic and statistical analysis.
Transfer pricing adjustments by the Transfer Pricing Officers will not be based on the Country-
by-Country Report.
(ii) The Commissioner General of Inland Revenue shall perserve the confidentiality of the information
contained in the Country-by-Country Report at least to the same extent that would apply if such
information were provided to it under the provisions of a double taxation agreement or as Mutual
Administrative Assistance Agreement entered in to  under the Act.
(VII) Effective Date
For the purpose of Paragraph (e) of this Regulation is effective for Reporting Fiscal Years of MNE
Groups begining on or after 1st April 2019.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
12A
(f) Penal Provisions
Where any person who fails to comply with the requirements of section 76 and/or 77 in relation to any
controlled trasaction with associated enterprises, the Commissioner General may impose on such person
the following penalties :
(i) Penalty on not preparing and maintaining Transfer Pricing Documentation  - Not preparing and
non-maintaining of the transfer pricing documentation mentioned in Regulation 6 will lead to penal
provisions specfied in Section 184 of the Act.
(ii) Penalty on Non submission of requested documents  - Non Submission of the required documents
will lead to penal provisions specified in Section 184 of the Act.
(iii) Penalty on Non-disclosure of any required information  - Non disclosure of any required
information will lead to penal provsions specified in Section 184 of the Act.
(iv) Penalty on Non submission of documents prescribed in Regulation 6 on or before the specified
date - Non submission of the documents prescribed in Regulation 6 on or before specified date will
lead to penal provisions specified in section 184 of the  Act.
(v) Penalty on concealment of the particulars or furnish inaccurate particluars  - concealment of
the particulars of his income or furnished inaccurate particluars of such income will lead to penal
provisions specified in Section 184 of the Act.
(vi) Apart from the penalties mentioned in section 184, the penalties specified in section 185 and criminal
proceedings specified in Chapter XVIII are applicable for transfer pricing.
7. Advance Pricing Agreements (APA)  - With a view to supplement the traditional administrative, judicial and
treaty mechanism for resolving transfer pricing issues, any person who has controlled international transactions
can enter into an Advance Pricing Agreement with the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue. An Advance
Pricing Agreement determine, in advance of specified international transactions with associated enterprises (i. e.
the controlled transaction covered by the agreement), an appropriate set of criteria (e. g. methodology, appropriate
adjustments thereto, and critical assumptions as to the future events) for the determination of the arm’s length
price for those transactions over a fixed period of time.
(a) The arrangements can basically be divided into the following two categories.
(i) Unilateral Advance Pricing Agreements. Whereby the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue and the
taxpayer establish an arrangement regarding to a particular transaction between associated enterprises without
involvement of other interested tax administrations, though it may affect the tax liability of the associated
enterprise in other tax jurisdiction.
(ii) Bilateral/Multiletral Advance Pricing Agreements. Whereby two or more tax authorities in different
jurisdiction concur in regard to a particular transaction between associated enterprises. The bilateral or
multilateral approach is considered equitable to all tax administrations and taxpayers and provides greater
certanity to the taxpayer concerned.
(b) An Advance Pricing Agreement may be entered into between a taxpayer and the Commissioner General in respect
of the arm’s length result of an international transaction with an associate enterprise.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
13A
(c) The Commissioner General may agree to enter into an Advance Pricing Agreement on a unilateral basis or through
consultation with the competent authority of the country of residence of the associated enterprise with which the
transaction is to be entered into, provided that the country of residence is a country with which Sri Lanka has a
Double Tax Avoidance Agreement.
(d) Where the Commissioner General enters into an Advance Pricing Agreement with a taxpayer, provided that the
terms and conditions set out in the Advance Pricing Agreement are fully complied with, no adjustment will be
made by the Commissioner General under Section 76 of the  Act to the trasaction that is within the scope of the
APA.
(e) Advance Pricing Agreements shall have a validity not exceeding four years of assessments. Taxpayer shall request
for an ageement before the Commissioner General and may request modifications or its cancellations, subject to
the Commissioner General’s evaluation and approval. The Commissioner General will specify the manner in which
the advance pricing agreement process shall operate by issuing an APA Guideline, which will specify :
(aa) eligibility for application for an advance pricing agreement ;
(bb) term limits for advance pricing agreements ;
(cc) the application procedure and process ;
(dd) annual compliance procedures for concluded advane pricing agreements ;
(ee) the conditions and procedures for revocation or cancellation of an advance pricing agreement ;
(ff) other requirements as may be necessary.
8. Associated Entrprises  - For the purposes of Section 76 and 77 of the  Act, and for these Regulations, two
enterprises shall be deemed to be associated entreprises, if, at any time during the year of assessment, any of the
following conditions is met.
(a) any person or enterprise holds, directly or indriectly shares or otherwise carrying the majority of the voting
power in the other enterprise ;
(b) any person or enterprise holds, directly or indirectly, shares carrying not less than fifty percent of the voting
power in each of such enterprise ;
(c) loans advanced by one enterprise to another enterprise constitute not less than fifty-one percent of the book
value of the total assets of the other enterprise provided that it is not given by a bank which is not considered
as an associated enterprise under any other item of this Regulation ;
(d) loans and equity provided by one enterprise to another enterprise constitute not less than fifty-one per cent
of the book value of the total assets of the other enterprise provided that it is not given by a bank which is not
considered as an associated enterprise under any other item of this Regulation ;
(e) one enterprise guarantee not less than twenty-five percent of the total borrowings of the other enterprise ;
(f) more than half of the board of directors or members of the governing board, or one or more
executive directors or executive members of the governing board of one enterprise, are appointed by the
other enterprise ;

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
14A
(g) more than half of the board of directors or members of the governing board, or one or more of the executive
directors of members of the governing board, of each of the two enterprises are appointed by the same
person or persons ;
(h) ninety per cent or more of the raw materials, semi-finished goods and consumables required for the
manufacture or processing of goods or articles carried out by one enterprise, or of purchases required for
the sale, are supplied by the other enterprise, or by person specified by the other enterprises, and the prices
and other conditions relating to the supply are influenced by such other enterprise ;
(i)  the goods or articles manufactured or processed by one enterprise are sold/tranferrred to another enterprise
or to persons specified by the enterprises, and the prices and other conditions relating thereto are influenced
by such enterprise or vice versa  ;
(j) where one enterprise is controlled by an individual or jointly by such individual and his relative, and the other
enterprise is controlled by such individual or his relative or jointly by such individual and his relative or
jointly by relative os such individual ;
(k) where one enterprise is a firm, association of persons or body of individuals, the other enterprise holds not
less than ten per cent interest in such firm, association of persons or body of individuals, or
(j) where the controlled transcation differs from the transactions that would have been made or imposed by any
person not directly participating in the management, control or capital as mentioned in Section 76 or 77, but
confers a potential advantage to the enterprise.
9. Corresponding adjustments for domestic transaction  - Where an adjustment is made under Section 77 of the
Act to the taxable income of a taxpayer in relation to a domestic transaction, no tax adjustment would be made to
the taxable income of the other party to the transaction.
Where the total income of an associated enterprise is computed on the arm’s length price, which is determined
under the provisions of Section 77 of the Act and paid to another associated enterprise from which tax has been
deducted (or is deductible) the income of other associated enterprise shall not be recomputed by reason of such
determination of arm’s length price in the case of first mentioned enterprise.
10. Corresponding adjustments to prevent double taxation in the case of international transactions
(1) Where -
(a) an adjustment to the conditions of tranasction between a taxpayer resident in Sri Lanka and an associated
enterprise is made or proposed by a tax administration in a country other  than Sri Lanka, and
(b) this adjustment results in the taxation in that other country of an amount of income on which the
taxpayer residsent in Sri Lanka has already been charged to tax in Sri Lanka ; and
(c) the country making or proposing the adjustment has a Double Taxation Avoidence agreement with Sri
Lanka that reflects an intention to provide for the relief of economic double taxation,
the adjustment should be made subject to the provisions of such agreement and subject to following paragraph.
(2) The Commissioner General of Inland Revenue shall, after a request is made by the taxpayer resident in Sri
Lanka, examine the consistency of that adjustment with the arm’s length principle provided for under Section
76, consulting as necessary with the competent authority of the other country.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
15A
(3) If the adjustment proposed or made by the other country is consistent with the arm’s length principle both in
principle and as regards the amount, the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue shall make a corresponding
adjustment to the amount of the tax charged in Sri Lanka to that person on those profits, in order to eliminate
the economic double taxation that would result from the inclusion of the same profits in the taxable income
of both that taxpayer and the associated enterprise.
(4) A request under Regulation 10 must include the information necessary for the Commissioner General of
Inland Revenue to examine the consistency of the adjustment made by the tax administration of the other
country with the arm’s length principle, including :
(a) the name, registered address and, where applicable, trading name(s) of the associated enterprise (s) ;
(b) evidence of the tax residence of the associated enterprise(s) ;
(c) the year(s) in which the adjusted transaction(s) with the associated enterprise(s) took place ;
(d) the amount of the requested corresponding adjustement and the amounts of the adjustments made by
the tax administration of the other country ;
(e) evidence of the adjustment made by the tax administration of the other country and the basis for the
adjustment, including details of comparability analysis relied upon and the transfer pricing method
applied ;
(f) confirmation that the associated enterprise(s) will not, or is unable to, pursue any further recourse
under the deomestic law of the other country that may result in the adjustment made by tax administration
of the other country being reduced or reversed ;
(g) any other information that may be relevant for examining the consistency of the adjustment with the
arm’s length principle.
(5) The request must be made within the applicable time period for making a request for the case to be resolved
by way of the mutual agreement procedure under the applicable tax treaty.
Annexture I - Local File
Transfer pricing documentation - Local file
The following information shall be included in the local file :
Part A - Local entity
* A description of the ownership structure of the local entity with details of shares or other ownership interest held
therein by other enterprises.
* A description of the management structure of the local entity, a local organization chart, and description of the
inviduals to whom local management reports and the country (ies) in which suh individuals maintain their principal
offices.
* A detailed descriptions of the business and business strategy pursued by the local entity including an indication
whether the local entity has been involved in or affected by intangible transfers in the present of immediately past
year and an explanation of those aspects of such transcations affecting the local entity.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
16A
* A description of important business restructuring transactions, acquisitions and divestitures occurring during the
year of assessment.
* A record of economic and market analyses, forecasts, budgets or any other financial estimates prepared by the
local entity for the business as a whole and for each division or product separately, which may have a bearing on
the controlled transactions entered into.
* Key competitors.
Part B - Controlled transactions
For each material category of controlled transactions in which the entity is involved,  the following information shall be
provided.
* Description of the material controlled transactions (e.g. procurrement of manufacturing services, purchase of
goods, provision of services, loans, financial and performance guarantees, licenses of intangible etc.) and the
context in which such transactions take place.
* The amount of intra-group payments and receipts for each category of controlled transactions involving the local
entity ( i.e. payments and receipts for products, services, royalties, interest etc.) and in the case of international
transactions broken down by tax jurisdiction of the foreign payer or recipient.
* An identification of associated enterprises involved in each category of controlled transactions, and the relationship
amongst them.
* Copies of all material intercompany agreements concluded by the local entity.
* A detailed comparability and functional analysis of the taxpayer and relevant associated enterprises with respect to
each documented category of controlled transactions, including any changes compared to prior years.
* The assumptions, policies and price negotiations, if any, which have critically affected the determination of the
arm’s length price.
* An indication of the most appropriate transfer pricing method with regard to the category of transaction and the
reasons for selecting that method.
* An indication of which associated enterprise is selected as the tested enterprise, if applicable, and an explanation
of the reasons for this selection.
* A summary of the important assumptions made in applying the transfer pricing methodology.
* If relevant, an explanation of the reasons for performing a multi-year analysis.
* A list and description of selected comparable uncontrolled transactions (internal or external), if any, and information
on relevant financial indicators for independent enterprises relied on in the transfer pricing analysis, including a
description of the comparable search methodology and the source of such information.
* A description of any comparability adjustments performed, and an indication of whether adjustments have been
made to the results of the tested enterprise, the comparable uncontrolled transactions, or both.
* A description of the reasons for concluding that relevant transactions were priced on an arm’s length basis based
on the application of the selected transfer pricing method.
* A summary of financial information used in applying the transfer pricing methodology.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
17A
* A copy of existing unilateral and bilateral/multilateral APAs and other tax rulings to which the local tax jurisdiction
is not a party and which are related to controlled transactions described above.
* Any other information, data or documents, including information or data relating to the associated enterprises,
which may be relevant for determination of the arm’s length price.
Part C - Financial information and supporting documents
* Annual local entity financial accounts for the fiscal year concerned, if audited statements exist they should be
supplied and if not, existing unaudited statements should be supplied.
* Information and allocation schedules showing how the financial data used in applying the transfer pricing method
may be tied to the annual financial statements.
* Summary schedules of relevant financial data for comparables used in the analysis and the sources from which that
data was obtained.
* Official publications, reports, studies and databases from the Government of the country of residence of the
associated enterprises, or of any other country which are relevant to the case.
* Reports of market research studies carried out and technical publications, databases brought out by institutions of
national or international repute.
* Price publications including stock exchange and commodity market quotations.
* Letters and other correspondence documenting any terms negotiated between the taxpayer and the associated
enterprise.
* Documents normally issued in connection with various transactions under the accounting practices followed.
Annexure II - Master File
Transfer pricing documentation - Master file
The following information shall be included in the master file :
Part A - Organisational structure
* Chart illustrating the MNE’s legal and ownership structure and geographical location of operating entities.
Part B - Description of MNE’s business(es)
* General written description of the MNE’s business including :
- Important drives of business profit ;
- A description of the supply chain for the group’s five largest products and/or service offerings by turnover
plus any other products and/or services amounting to more than 5 percent of group turnover. The required
description could take the form of a chart or a diagram ;

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
18A
- A list and brief description of important service arrangements between members of the MNE group, other
than research and development (R & D) services, including a description of the capablities of the principal
locations providing important services and transfer pricing policies for allocating services costs and
determining prices to be paid for intra-group services ;
- A description of the main geographic markets for the group’s products and services that are referred to in the
second bullet point above ;
- A brief written functional analysis describing the principal contribution to value creation by individual entities
within the group, i. e. key functions performed, important risk assumed, and important assets used ;
- A description of important business restructuring transactions, acquisitions and divestiture occurring during
the fiscal year.
Part C - MNE’s intangibles
* A general description of the MNE’s overall stategy for the development, ownership and exploitation of intangibles,
including location of principal R & D facilities and location of R & D management.
* A list of intangible or groups of intangibles of the MNE group that are important for transfer pricing purposes and
entities which own them legally.
* A list of important agreements among identified associated enterprises related to intangibles, including cost
contribution arrangements, principal research service agreements and license agreements.
* A general description of the group’s transfer pricing policies related to R & D and intangibles.
* A general description of any important transfers of interests in intangibles among associated enterprises during
the fiscal year concerned, including the entities, countries, and compensation involved.
Part D - MNE’s intercompany financial activities
* A general description of how the group is financed, including important financing arrangements with unrelated
lenders.
* The identification of any members of the MNE group that provide a central financing function for the group,
including the country under whose laws the entity is organized and the place of effective management of such
entities.
* A general description of the MNE’s general transfer pricing policies related to financing arrangements between
associated enterprises.
Part E -  MNE’s financial and tax positions
* The MNE’s annual consolidated financial statement for the fiscal year concerned if otherwise prepared for financial
reporting, regulatory, internal management, tax or other purposes.
* A list and brief description of the MNE group’s existing unilateral advance pricing agreements (APAs) and other
tax rulings relating to the allocation of income among countries.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
19A
Annexure      III - Country-by-Country Report Template
The following is the template of the Country-by-Country Report :
Table 1 : Overview of allocation of income, taxes and business activities by tax jurisdiction
Name of the MNE Group :
Fiscal year concerned :
Currency used :
Tax
jurisdiction
Unrelated
party
Related
Party
Total
Profit (Loss)
before
Income Tax
Income Tax
Paid
(on Cash
Basis)
Income Tax
Accrued
Current
Year
Stated
Capital
Accumulated
Earnings
Number of
Employees
Tangible
Assets
other than
cash and
cash
equivalent
Revenues

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
20A
 Name of the MNE group :
Fiscal year concerned :
Dormant
Table 2 : List of all the Constituent Entities of the MNE group included in each aggregation per tax jurisdiction
Main Business Activity (ies) :
Other
Holding Shares or Other Equity
Instruments
Insurance
Regulated Financial Services
Internal Group Finance
Provision of Services to Unrelated
Parties
Administrative, Management
 or Support Services
Sales, Marketing or Distribution
Manufacturing or
Production
Purchasing or Procurement
Holding or Managing
Intellectual Property
Research and Development
Tax Jurisdiction of
Organization or
Incorporation if
Differenet from Tax
Jurisdiction of
Residence
Constituent Entities
Resident in the
Tax Jurisdiction
Tax
Jurisdiction

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
21A
Table 3 : Additional Information
Name of the MNE Group :
Fiscal year concerned :

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
22A
Annexure      IV
TRANSFER   PRICING   DISCLOSURE   FORM
In terms of Paragraph (d) of Regulation 6 of this Gazette Notification issued under Section 76, 77 and 194 of the Inland
Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017.
(** Please refer to the Inland Revenue Web Portal for guidelines to complete this form )
Part A. Taxpayer Information
Particulars of the person making this disclosure :
A1 : Name
A2 : Address
City
Postal code
State
Country
A3 : Incorporation of the company/
partnership registration number
A4 : Taxpayer Identification
Number
A5 : Telephone
A6 : E-mail Address
A7 : Web Address             .....................................................................................................................................
A8 : Designation
A9 : Signature ; :............................................................................................................................. .......................................
A10 : Date (DDMMYYYY)

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
23A
Declaration
(to be completed by a Director/Principal Officer/Precedent Partner/Proprietor)
I,
with Identity Card No./Passport No. *
(*delete appropriately )
hereby declare that this form contains information that is true, correct and complete as at .............................
Designation
Signature
Date
For Office use only
Date (DDMMYYYY)
Name of Officer
Designation
Signature

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
24A
Part B : Transactions with Associated Enterprises
Column I Column II Column III Column IV
Transaction Associated
Enterprise
Arm’ s Length PriceTP Methodology
Category of
trasactions
Amount of
transaction (in
LKR)
For loans,
principal amount
For loans, ending
balance
Category of
trasaction
Amount of
transaction (in
LKR)
For loans,
principal amount
For loans, ending
balance
Name of associated
enterprises
Associated
enterprise’s Tax
Identification
Number
Country of
residence
Criteria of
associated
enterprise
Name of associated
enterprises
Associated
enterprise’s Tax
Identification
Number
Country of
residence
Criteria of
associated
enterprise
TP Method
Profit level
indicator
Price/Profit
Margin/Rate
Tested enterprise
TP Method
Profit level
indicator
Price/Profit
Margin/Rate
Tested enterprise
Comparable
price/margin
AL Range-Max
AL Range-Med
AL Range-Min
Comparable
price/margin
AL Range-Max
AL Range-Med
AL Range-Min
I. Transaction II.  Associated
Enterprise
IV .  Arm’ s Length PriceIII.  TP Methodology
2

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
25A
Annexure V
CODES   FOR   TRANSFER   PRICING   DISCLOSURE   FORM
CATEGORIES   OF   TRANSACTIONS   WITH   ASSOCIATED   ENTERPRISES
(i) Revenue Transactions
Transaction Code Description
No.
01 Sale of produced inventories
02 Sale of non-produced inventories
03 Production supporting services
04 Administrative services
05 Technical assistance
06 Technical services
07 Other services
08 Fees
09 Commissions
10 Promotional activities
11 Insurance and Reinsurance
12 Financial Instruments
13 Interest on loans
14 Leasing
15 Other financial services
16 Guarantees
17 Sales of shares and interests as investment assets
18 Other portfolio transfers
19 Sale of non-depreciable assets
20 Sale of depreciable or amortizable assets
21 Transfer of intangible assets
22 Royalties
23 Other investments
24 Other assets
25 Other revenue
26 Other (to be specified in Local File)

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
26A
(ii) Expenses transactions
Transaction Code Description
No.
27 Purchase of produced inventories
28 Purchase of non-produced inventories
29 Production supporting services
30 Administrative services
31 Technical assistance
32 Technical services
33 Other services
34 Fees
35 Commissions
36 Promotional activities
37 Insurance and Reinsurance
38 Financial Instruments
39 Interest on loans
40 Leasing
41 Other financial services
42 Guarantees
43 Purchase of shares and interests as investment assets
44 Other portfolio transfers
45 Purchase of non-depreciable assets
46 Purchase of depreciable or amortizable assets
47 Purchase of intangible assets
48 Royalties
49 Other investments
50 Other assets
51 Other expenditures
52 Other (to be specified in Local File)

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
27A
Annexure VI
TRANSFER   PRICING   DISCLOSURE   FORM
Completion requirements
The following is the guidance for the completion of the Transfer Pricing Discloure Form
All taxpayers that carry out transaction with associated enterprises during the year of assessment must complete and file
a Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form, regardless of the size and nature of those transactions. The following conditions
apply :-
* All taxpayers that carry out categories of transactions that exceed LKR 200 million must complete all fields
(Column  I to IV) of the Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form
* Those taxpayers that carry out categories of transactions that do not exceed LKR 200 million must only
complete Column I and II.
Categories of transcations are listed in Annexure V of this Gazette
The following are the details of the information to be provided by taxpayers in the Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form on
an annual basis. Transactions are to be disclosed by their categories and per associated enterprise.
Column I Column II Column III Column IV
 Transaction Associated
Enterprise
 Arm’ s Length
Price
 TP Methodology
Category of
trasaction
Amount of
transaction (in
LKR)
For loans,
principal amount
For loans, ending
balance
Name of associated
enterprise
Associated
enterprise’s Tax
Identification
Number
Country of
residence
Criteria of
associated
enterprise
TP Method
Profit level
indicator
Price/Profit
Margin/Rate
Tested enterprise
Comparable
price/margin
AL Range-Max
AL Range-Med
AL Range-Min
1
No.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
28A
Colum I. Transaction. This Section provides the detail of the disclosed category of transaction (in accordance with
Annexure V of these Regulations) with every associated enterprise carried out during the year of assessment.
* Category of transaction : Disclose the code of the categories of transactions carried out according to
Annexure IV of these Regulations.
* Amount of transaction (in LKR) : Disclose the value in LKR of each particular category of transaction carried
out with each associted enterprise.
* For loans, amount of principal : Disclose the amount of the accounting balance of the principal received or
provided through a loan.
* For loans, ending balance : Disclose the amount of the accounting balance of the principal received or provided
through a loan on the date of the fiscal year-end.
Column II. Associated Enterprise : This section provides the detail of the associated enterprise with which
transactions were carried out during a year of assessment.
* Name of associated enterprise : Disclose the complete name of the associated enterprise.
* Associated enterprise’s Tax Identification Number : Disclose the tax identification number that the associated
enterprise utilizes in its country of residence for income tax purposes.
* Country of residence : Disclose the code for the country of residence of the associated enterprise.
* Criteria of associated enterprises : Disclose the code for the type of association criteria according to
Annexure VII of these Regulations.
Note : Sections I and II of the Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form to be completed only by all taxpayers that carried out
categories of transactions that do not exceed LKR 200 million.
Column III. TP Methodology  : This section provides the detail of the transfer pricing methodology selected by the
taxpayer in the analysis of the transactions carried out with associated enterprises during a year of assessment.
* TP Method : Disclose the transfer pricing method selected to analyse the disclosed transaction according to
Annexure VIII of these Regulations.
* Profit level indicator : Disclose the profit level indicator selected to analyse the disclosed transaction according
to Annexure VIII of these Regulations.
* Price/Profit Margin/Rate : Disclose the price, proft margin or rate arrived or derived from the applicaton of
transfer pricing methodology to the disclosed transcation. Please include two (2) decimal places.
* Tested enterprise : Disclose the party to the transaction that has been selected as the tested one for the disclosed
transaction according to Annexure VIII of these Regulations.
Column IV . Arm’s length price : This section provides the detail of the result of the application of the transfer pricing
methodology to the transactions carried out with associated enterprises during a year of assessment.
* Comparable price/margin : In case these is only once comparable price or margin, disclose its vlaue : Please
include two (2) decimal places.
* AL Range - Max : Disclose the maximum/upper limit of the calculated arm’s length range.
* AL Range - Med : Disclose the median of the calculated arm’s length range.
* AL Range - Min : Disclose the minimum/lower limit of the calculated arm’s length range.

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
29A
Annexure VII
ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES
List of Codes
The following is the list of Codes for the completion of the Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form
Association Description
Code No.
01. Participating directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital (Sec. 77(5)(a)of the Act)
02. Permanent Establishment (Sec. 77(5)(b) of the Act)
03. Directly or indirectly holding of shares or otherwise carrying the majority of the voting power
(Regulation 8(a))
04. Holding directly or indirectly shares carrying not less than fifty percent of the voting power
(Regulation 8(b))
05. Loans advanced by one enterprise to another enterprise constitute not less than fifty-one percent of
the book value of the total assets of the other enterprise (Regulation 8(c))
06. Loans and equity provided by one enterprise constitute not less than fifty-one percent of the book
value of the total assets of the other enterprise (Regulation 8(d))
07. Guarantees of not less than twenty five percent of the total borrowings (Regulation 8(e))
08. More than half of the board of directors or members of the governing board,  or one or more executive
directors or executive members of the governing board of one enterprise, are appointed by the other
enterprises (Regulation 8(f).
09. More than half of the board of directors or members of the governing board, or one or more of the
executive directors or members of the governing board, of each of the two enterprises are appointed
by the same person or persons (Regulation 8(g)).
10. Ninety per cent or more of the raw materials, semi-finished goods and consumables required for the
manufacture or processing of goods or articles carried out by one enterpise, or of purchases required
for the sale, are supplied by the other enterprise,  or by persons specified by the other enterprise, and
the prices and other conditions relating to the supply are influenced by such other enterprise
(Regulation 8(h)).
11. Goods or articles manufactured or processed by one enterprise are sold/transferred to another
enterprise or to persons specified by the enterprise, and the prices and other conditions relating
thereto are influenced by such enterprise or vice versa (Regulation 8(i)).
12. Control by an individual or his relative or jointly by such individual and his relative or jointly by
relatives of such individual (Regulation 8(j)).
13. Holding of not less than ten percent interest of a firm, association of persons or body of individuals
(Regulation 8(k)).
14. Where the controlled transactions differs from the transactions that would have been made or imposed
by any person not directly participating in the management, control or capital as mentioned in section
76 or 77, but confers a potential advantage to the enterprise (Regulation 8(l))

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2018
30A
Annexure VIII
TRANSFER  PRICING  METHODOLOGY,  PROFIT  LEVEL  INDICATORS  AND  TESTED  ENTERPRISE
List of Codes
The following is the list of Transfer Pricing Method codes for the completion of the Transfer Pricing
Disclosure Form
Method Description
Code No.
CUP Comparable Uncontrolled Price Method
RP Resale Price Method
CP Cost Plus Method
TNM Transactional Net Margin Method
PS Profit Split Method
The following is the list of Profit Level Indicator codes for the completion of the Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form
PLI Description
Code No.
GM Gross Margin
GMK Gross Markup
ROS Operating Margin/Return on Sales
ROTC Operating Markup/Return on Total Cost
ROA Return on Assets
ROCE Return on Capital Employed
BERRY Berry Ratio
Other  Other (to be specified in Local File)
The following is the list of Tested Enterprise Codes for the completion of the Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form.
Tested Description
Enterprise
Code No.
01 Sri Lanka enterprises
02 Foreign enterprises
01 - 328
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.