

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2414
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2412
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"990 – 2016 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 21 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'10'21
No. 1,990 –  fRiday ,  OctObER  21, 2016
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtiON is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 11th November, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 28th  October, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
15th September, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2409
Note.—  (i)  appropriation (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of July 15, 2016.
 (ii)  Engineering council, Sri Lanka bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 29, 2016.
 (iii)  Sri Lanka Sustainable development bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of august 12, 2016.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'10'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
2410
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'10'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
2411
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'10'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
2412
Posts – Vacant
NATIONAL ChILD PROTECTION  AuThORITy 
Vacancies 
aPPLicatiONS are hereby invited from qualified citizens 
of Sri Lanka for the vacancies mentioned below. the 
applicants should possess the following qualifications :
01. manager (Law Enforcement) (01 Post)
	 Head	Office	-	Colombo
 Qualifications :
External Candidates : (1 or 2 below) :
 1. a bachelors degree in criminology or LLb 
recognized by the U. G. C. with Attorney-at-law 
qualification ;
  with 
  A Postgraduate Degree qualification (Masters). 
  and 
  Minimum of 12 years experience at a 
"Managerial Level" in a Corporation, Statutory 
board/Government institution or a reputed 
private institution. 
 2. A Bachelors degree recognized by the U. G. C. 
  with 
  Minimum of 12 years experience in the Police 
Service including holding a post of at least 
Superintendent of Police for a minimum of 05 
years. 
Internal Candidates : (1 or 2 below) :
 1. Having obtained the qualifications required by 
the external candidates above. 
 2. Completion of minimum five (5) years 
satisfactory service in a post in the Manager 
Category (MM) Grade I, in the subject area 
relevant to the post. 
 * Salary Code and the monthly Salary Scale of 
the employee category DmS Circular 2/2016 
(01.01.2020) :
  HM 1-1 2016 [Rs. 81,670 -15x2,270 - 115,720] 
in terms of MSD Circular No. 2/2016 schedule II 
the initial salary step of above is Rs. 47,158.
 * Age.– age should be not less than 35 years and 
not more than 55 years. the upper age limit will 
not apply to the internal candidates. 
02. Assistant manager (media and Information) 
 (01 Post)
	 Head	Office	-	Colombo	
 Qualifications :
External Candidates : 
A special Degree in Mass Communication/Mass 
Media or any other relevant degree recognized by 
the U. G. C. 
and
Minimum two (02) years post qualifying experience 
in the relevant field to the post. 
Internal Candidates (1 or 2 below) :
1.  Having obtained the qualifications required by 
the external candidates above. 
2. Completion of minimum five (05) years 
satisfactory service in a post in the Junior 
Manager (JM) Category, in the subject area 
relevant to the post. 
* Salary Code and the monthly Salary Scale of 
the employee category DmS Circular 2/2016 
(01.01.2020) :
 
 MM 1-1 2016 [Rs. 53,175 -10x1,375 - 15x1,910 
-  95,575] in terms of MSD Circular No. 2/2016 
schedule ii the initial salary step of above is  
Rs. 31,147.
* Age.– should be not less than 22 years and not 
more than 45 years. the upper age limit will not 
apply to the internal candidates. 
Benefits for above two positions.- apart from the basic 
salary Special allowance, cost of Living allowance, 
interim allowance Government approved Other 
allowances, transport allowance and fuel allowance 
will be paid relevant to the service category apart from the 
basic salary 12% to EPf and 3% to Etf will be born by 
the authority. 
General Conditions.- Every applicant should be a citizen 
of Sri Lanka and should be of excellent moral character 
and be physically and mentally fit to discharge the duties of 
the post well and to serve in any part of the island. 
Signed applications giving bio-data along with all 
certified copies of educational, professional qualifications, 
experience and names with addresses of two non-related 
referees should be sent under registered cover to reach 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'10'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
2413
the following address on or before 03rd of November 
2016. incomplete, illegible applications which are not in 
conformity with the above requirements and applications 
received after the closing date will be rejected without any 
notice. Any form of canvassing will be a disqualification. 
Only short listed candidates will be called for interviews. 
the decision of the board of directors with regard to these 
recruitments shall be final. 
the "Post applied for ............" should be clearly 
mentioned on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. 
applicants from State Sector/c orporation/board should 
send their applications through their respective Head of the 
Organization. 
 chairperson,
 National child Protection authority. 
No. 330, thalawathugoda Road, 
Madiwela, 
Sri Jayawardenapura. 
Web Site - www.childprotection.gov.lk
10-1178
–––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrars of marriages, births and Deaths 
 
COLOMBO DIStRICt
aPPLicatiONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the 
Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or 
before 21st November, 2016.
 E. M. 
gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
battaramulla.
28th September, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Colombo Maharagama Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/ Additional
    of colombo and births and deaths of  Registrar General,  district
   Maharagama North Division  Secretariat, Colombo. 
10–663

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'10'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
2414
CALLING  APPLICATIONS  fOR  
COmPETITIVE  ExAmINATION  TO  fILL  
ThE V ACANCIES  IN  ThE  POSTS  Of  
VETERINARy  RESEARCh  OffICERS  
AND  RESEARCh OffICERS  Of  ThE  SRI  
LANkA  ANImAL  PRODuCTION  AND  
hEALTh  SERVICE - 2016/17
APPLICAtIONS are being called from the officers with 
the following qualifications to be selected for the posts of 
Veterinary Research Officers and Research Officers of the 
Sri Lanka animal Production and Health Service in which 
vacancies are available. 
01. Qualifications for Recruitment : 
01. Veterinary Research Officers.- Should have 
completed minimum of one year (01) and 
maximum of three years (03) service as a 
Veterinary Surgeon in the Sri Lanka animal 
Production and Health Service and have obtained 
four year degree with first class or second class 
(upper division) in the relevant Veterinary 
Science. 
02. Veterinary Officer.- Should have completed 
minimum of one year (01) and maximum of 
three years (03) in the permanent and satisfactory 
service as a Veterinary Surgeon or a Livestock 
Officer in the Sri Lanka Animal Production 
and Health Service and have obtained four year 
degree in Veterinary Science/animal Husbandry/
Agri Science with a first class or second class 
(upper division).
For both of the above posts the following qualifications 
should be fulfilled :
01. Not have been subjected to any disciplinary 
punishment or initiated any disciplinary action 
against the applicant during previous year. 
02. Have earned salary increments in the previous 
years. 
02. if you wish to apply for the above posts, forward 
your completed application form annexed herewith 
(annexure 01) to the address, director General of 
Examinations, Organization and Foreign Examination 
branch, department of Examinations Sri Lanka, P. O. box 
1503, colombo before the date of 18.11.2016. application 
should be prepared in A4 size paper using both sides and 
the heads from 01 to 06 should be typed on the first side of 
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
the application and the rest should be on the other side. the 
applications which are of non compliance with specimen 
application form and incomplete applications will be 
rejected. 
03. the examination will be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations and only the 
National identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of Persons or the valid passport will be 
accepted for the examinations in order to prove the identity 
of the candidate at the examination hall. the examination 
fee Rs. 1,000 for the above examination should be paid 
to any post office/sub post office situated in the island 
to be credited to Revenue Head No. 2003-02-13 of the 
commissioner General of Examination and the receipt of 
it should be affixed to the edge of the relevant cage in the 
application form so that it can't be detached. Money orders 
or stamps will not be accepted as the fee and the fee will 
not be reimbursed or converted to other examinations in 
any reasons. 
04. if the admission card is not received after the issuing 
of admissions, it should be informed to the department of 
Examinations sending the certified photostat copies of the 
application and receipt for the payment. Every candidate 
should certify the signature of the admission card and 
submit the admission card to the examiner on the very first 
day of the examinations. All candidates should subject to 
the rules and regulations enacted by the commissioner 
General of Examinations regarding conducting the 
examination and issuing the results. 
05. the examination will be conducted only in Sinhala, 
tamil and English medium at colombo. 
06. the candidates will be recruited to the posts by 
the Public Service commission considering the order of 
the merits as well as the vacancies available (Syllabus is 
attached in annexure 02).
07. Further, you are hereby kindly noted when the 
officer is appointed as a Veterinary Research officer or 
Research officer based on the marks obtained at the written 
examination, the officer will not be permitted to return to 
his previous post that he/she held as a Veterinary Officer/
Livestock Officer. 
Under the order of Public Service Commission, 
 D. K. R. 
ekanayake, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Rural Economic Affairs.
21st October, 2016. 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'10'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
2415
Annexure 01
Application	for	Recruitment	of	Officers	in	the	Post	of	Veterinary	Research	Officers	and	Research	
Officers	in	the	Sri	Lanka	Animal	Production	and	Health	Service	-	2016/17
For Office use
Language medium of Examination : Mode of applying the post -
Sinhala - 2 Veterinary Research Officer - 01)
tamil - 3 Research Officer - 02)
English - 4 both posts - 03)
(Give the relevant number in the box) (Give the relevant number in the box)
01.   (i) Name with initials (In English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
    (HERAtH MUDIyANSELAGE SAMAN KUMARA GUNAwARDHANE)
   (ii) Name with initials with surname first (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
    (ex. GUNAwARDHANE, H. M. S. K.)
   (iii) Full name (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
02. the present work place and address (in block letters) :––––––––––––.
03. N. I. C. No. : 
04. Male/Female :  Male - 0
     female - 1  
         (Give the relevant number in the box)
05. Date of Birth : y ear : Month : Date :
06. Present designation :––––––––––––.
07. First appointment date to the Animal Production and Health Service :––––––––––––.
08.   (i) Date of confirm in the service :––––––––––––.
   (ii) Duration in the service :––––––––––––.
09. Service particulars :
   The post held Period of Place of Department/    
   service work Provincial Council
    From           To
10. Degree details :
  Degree/Post Graduate Qualifications Class University Year
 1.
 2.
 3.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'10'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
2416
11. whether increments earned in the previous years : 
  No. Year Whether increment were earned or not
 Have you ever subjected to any disciplinary punishments  :––––––––––––.
 If yes indicate the detail with the dates  :––––––––––––.
12. Detail on the receipt of the examination fee : 
  (i) Post office where the fee levied :––––––––––––.
  (ii) Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
  (iii) Date :––––––––––––.
Affix the receipt here properly
i hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. i am also aware 
that if any particulars are found to be false or incorrect. I am liable to be disqualified before selection and to dismissals 
without compensation if detected after appointment. i also certify putting my signature that i have not  being convicted 
for any criminal offence by any court of law. further, i declare that i would abide by the laws and regulations enacted by 
the commissioner General of Examinations regarding the examination. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 applicant's Signature.
Date  :––––––––––––.
Recommendation of the Head of the Department : 
I declare that the above applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................. is holding the post of ........................... in 
this department/Provincial council and the particulars stated in the application are accurate when checked with his/her 
personal file He/She can be released/cannot be released from Department/Provincial/Public Service if selected for this 
post. (delete the words not relevant).
 ––––––––––––––,
 Head of the department.
 (Official Stamp)
Date  :––––––––––––.
Annexure 02
competitive examination to recruit in the posts of veterinary research officers and research officers of 
the sri lanka animal production and health service - 2016/17
01. Details of the examination : 
 No. examination Paper Duration Aggregate Pass Marks
 01 A paper to asses the knowledge in the field of research 2 hours 100 50*
 02 aptitude test  1 hours 100 50*
*Note.- the Recruitment Officer has the power of reducing the minimum marks at passing the examination when 
the applicants with prescribed passed marks are lesser than the relevant number of vacancies.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'10'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
2417
 Name of the paper Syllabus
01. A paper to asses the knowledge  1. the scientific and research environment in Sri Lanka, National research 
  in the field of research   policies, Agricultural research policies, allocation for researches, the 
National institutions engaged in Researches, Research priorities. 
 2. Nomenclature of researches, categories of researches, fundamental 
researches. 
 3. Necessities of researches - recognizing and necessity of analysis, priority 
at strategies in recognizing and analyzing. 
 4. Preparing researches, techniques of sampling, quantity of samples, 
techniques at testing, the facts which should be observed at selecting 
the places, experiments, team work, application of rational structure, the 
theory of "whole or none ".
 5. investigating on the researches, international and national publications, 
magazines, information finding, Library network.
 6. Statistics on researches, statistics and data analysis packages, software, 
primary counting, sum, average, standard deviation, standard correlation, 
application of standard table of distribution. 
 7. Documentation, publications on research decisions, the prescribed 
specimen for research publications, advantages and diversified 
presentations on comparatively advantages and disadvantages of the rules 
at writing precisely. 
 8. Researches and developing- the gap between research and extension, 
researches, extension combinations, dissemination of findings, post 
research relationships. 
 9. Ethics on researches, obtaining in formations from other resources, using 
the unpublished data, using for the researches. 
02. aptitude test ability in making correct decisions with a short period is expected. a 
question paper prepared for judging whether the applicants have gained 
the required knowledge, merits and attitudes as well as proficiency.
10-435
PRINtED  At  tHE  DEPARtMENt  OF  GOVERNMENt  PRINtING,  SRI  LANKA.