

<!-- page 1 -->

PART IV (A) -- PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
CENTRAL   PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
wxl 2030$33 - 2017 wf.daia;= ui 02 jeks nodod - 2017'08'02
No. 2030/33 – WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 02, 2017
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
EXTRAORDINARY
w;s úfYI
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
Draft  Enactment  Number  03  of  2016  of  the  Central  Provincial  Council  to  establish  a  Department  for
Cultural  Affairs
I, P . B. Wijerathne, The secretary of the Chief Ministry of Central Province do here by notify that  I will submit to the Central
Provincial Council the draft enactment to establish a Department for Cultural Affairs for the Central Provincial Council, which
is published here, after two weeks from the date of publishing it in this gazette notification. If somebody has any matter or
amendment to submit with regard to the regulations included in this enactment he or she can submit s uch matters or
amendments to me within this time period.
P. B. WIJERATHNE,
The Secretary of the Chief Ministry,
Central Province.
Kandy,
At the Office of the secretary of the Chief Ministry of Central Province,
25th  day of July , 2017.
    This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
1A - PG 3639 - 08 (08/2017)

<!-- page 2 -->

IV  ^w& fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'08'022  A
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  02.08.2017
DRAFT  ENACTMENT  NUMBER  03  OF 2016  OF THE  CENTRAL  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  TO
ESTABLISH  A  DEPARTMENT  FOR  CULTLURAL  AFFAIRS
An Enactment to establish a Department for Cultural Affairs for the Central Province, to
regulate art activities including theatres, plays, provincial literary activities, music and entertain-
ment activities except the approval of cinema  movies for exhibition and public performance,
and to carry out researches and investigations on archaeological sites, ruins, ancient and histori-
cal monuments and reports except on those that are declared as to have national importance, by
or under a parliamentary act, and to preserve them and take necessary actions to maintain them
and to maintain regulate and enact necessary rules and regulations for the museums and other
similar institutions governed and funded by the Central Provincial Council, and to make rules
and regulations on related and coordinating matters.
THE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  OF THE CENTRAL PROVINCE OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA HEREBY
ENACTS THE FOLLOWING.
This enactment is called as the enactment of Cultural Affairs No. 03 of 2016 of the Central
Provincial Council and shall become into effect from the date on which the Hon. Governer's
approval is granted.
Part I
Establishment of the Department of Cultural affairs of the
Central Provincial Council
1. A Department for Cultural Affairs of the Central Province (herein after referred to as the
department) shall be established in order to carry out the objectives of this enactment.
2. (1) A Provincial Director shall be appointed to the department in order to execute the
duties and powers of the Department.
(2) The Provincial Director shall be appointed by the Governor and he shall be the Head
of the Department.
3. Other Officers and staff required to assist the Provincial Director to perform the duties and
powers of the department, shall be appointed as per the provisions of the Provincial Council
Act No. 42 of 1987.
4. The powers and the duties of the provincial director can be transferred to the officers who
are appointed under the above 03rd paragraph.
5. It is the duty of this department to achieve the following objectives.
Short name
and the
effective date
Establishment
of the
Department of
Cultural
Affairs of the
Central
Provincial
Council
Appointing
other officers
for the
department
Appointing of
the Director of
Cultural
Affairs
Department
Staff
Transferring
power
Objectives
of  the
Department

<!-- page 3 -->

3 AIV  ^w& fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'08'02
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  02.08.2017
(1) To regulate and standardize the theaters, perfomances, cinema hall shows and
entertainment activities within the province apart from the approval for cinema movies for
exhibition and public performance.
(2) To preserve and maintain ancient and historic monuments and reports except on those
that are declared as to have national importance, by or under a parlimentary act.
(3) To maintain and preserve the museums and similar institutions governed by the provincial
council.
(4) To regulate the literary religious and other non institutional societies and organizations
which functioned within the province and activities related to art associations.
(5) To improve the creative skills of the artists in the fields of arts and literature within the
Province and welfare activities of artists.
(6) To conduct researches and investigations regarding cultural and arts related affairs,
artists and related fields to conserve the visible and invisible cultural heritages of the central
province and to publish and preserve the information with regard to them.
(7) To promote religious, cultural, literary, arts, moral and spiritual values in the central
province.
6. The duties and the powers of the department shall be as follows:
(1) To form cultural groups in the province, to recruit artists, to pay them allo wances and
to get the artists involved in arts programs and performances.
(2) To form, register, manage, moniter, audit and dissolve cultural groups.
(3) To register and monitor the arts associations.
(4) To establish, maintain and govern museums and other similar institutions funded by the
provincial council.
(5) To maintain the hygienic conditions of the theaters and the cinema halls which are
located in the central province and to inspect whether they suit for people and set standards
for matters with regard to them and conduct examinations.
(6) To plan, implement, assess and assist to cultural programs within the province.
(7) To establish and improve cultural committees and arts associations and take necessary
actions for their development.
(8) To obtain the required assistance and support of the  Government, provincial councils,
local government institutions, other legal entities to perform the duties of the department
and maintain relationships with non-governmental organizations.
Duties and
powers of the
department

<!-- page 4 -->

IV  ^w& fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'08'024  A
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  02.08.2017
(9) To plan, implement, maintain and facilitate the programs for the welfare of artists.
(10) To establish cultural  villages in the province and plan programs to preserve the
traditional knowledge for future generations.
(11) To audit the financial and accounting reports submitted by the arts associations, regional
cultural committees and provincial cultural authority and take legal actions with regard to
financial irregularities.
(12) (a) To name the selected and identified sacred items, clothes, jewelries and artifacts
of the province as "The Provincial Cultural Heritages which shall be conserved".
(b) To assist to set standards to produce, sell and distribute the selected sacred items,
clothes, jewelries and artifacts which are named as " The Provincial Cultural Heritages
which shall be conserved".
(13) (a) To enter
(b) To inspect and examine
(c) To Request to produce a license, pass, report, certificate or any other document
(d) To examine such license, pass, report, certificate or any other document
(e) To take photo copies or extracts of necessary documents and information
(f) To inquire and investigate from the officers in charge or any other necessery
persons,
of the theaters, cinema halls, places where entertainment programs are held and
places where crafts and artifacts are sold, exhibited and distributed, with regard
to the duties of the Department.
(14)  To fulfill the requirements which are thought to be needed to perform the mission of
the this Department such as the duties of the government, provincial councils, local
government institutions and departmental activities and to obtain the support of local,
foreign and other legal entities and to maintain a coordination with non-governmental
organizations.
(15) To obtain the assistance of the police when required while performing the duties of
the department.
Part II
Forming the Central Provincial Cultural Committee
7. (1) Cultural committees can be formed for the fields of traditional dancing, singing and
music of the province in order to promote and safeguard the provincial aesthetic arts and
to improve the economical standard of the artists. These committees shall operate under
the supervision of the provincial director.
(2) The provincial Director can make necessary provisions with the approval of  the secretary
to the ministry regarding the recruitment of artists and advisors to cultural committees,
deciding their qualifications, disciplinary controls, supervision, payment of allowances and
their removal.
Forming the
cultural group

<!-- page 5 -->

5 AIV  ^w& fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'08'02
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  02.08.2017
(3) The cultural director has the power to guide the cultural committees towards the activities
which are necessary to achieve the objectives of the department.
Part III
Forming Regional Cultural Committees and
Provincial Cultural Authority
8.(1)Regional cultural committees which  will be referred herein after as ''committee'' shall be
formed in each Divisional Secretariat Division.
(a) The artists, teachers and interested persons in arts related activities from the division can
obtain the membership of this regional cultural committee.
(b) A chairman, a secretary and a treasurer shall be selected from the members at  a General
Meeting of the committee.
(c) The Divisional Secretary of the  relevant division will be the patron of the committee by
virtue of  his post and the Cultural Officer shall act as the coordinator of the committee.
(2) The Tenure of the committee is one year
9.(1) Every committee shall have a constitution with particulars regarding the composition of
the committee, its accounts, and other provisions necessary for the maintenance of the
committee. The general provisions to be included in the constitution can be imposed
from time to time by the Minister by regulations with the recommendation of the Provincial
Director.
(2) The committees have the right to prepare their constitutions as per to their requirements
and not contradict to the above mentioned general provisions.
10. Powers of the Regional Cultural Committees are as follows :
(1) To prepare plans and implement them to promote religious, cultural, moral and spiritual
values which ensures the conservation of the visible and invisible heritages of the relevant
divisional secretariat division.
(2) To assist to implement the duties of the Provincial Cultural Department in regional
level.
(3) To take actions to implement a programe for the equal distribution of opportunities of
welfare programs and  other different opportunities submitted from time to time  by the
Central Provincial Council or by the Cultural Department of Central province for the
benefit of the artists who reside within the functional area of the committee.
(4) To enhance the quality of various art creations conducted in rural areas, to contribute
to upgrade the standards of rural artists and take actions to create a competitive background
to assess their creations in   government level.
(5) To build a platform for the opinions, proposals ideas and contributions of artists
representing various fields and implement programs to ensure their identity .
Forming
cultural
committees
General
regulations
which shall be
included to
the
constitution
of the cultural
committees
Powers of
the regional
cultural
committees

<!-- page 6 -->

IV  ^w& fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'08'026  A
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  02.08.2017
(6) To Implement a mechanism to perform innovative cultural and arts programs in rural and
regional levels.
(7) To create opportunities to spread the culture and arts craeations of the committee's
territory to the national and international levels and to create opportunities for the artsters
from the committee's territory to exchange the knowledge of different countries.
(8) To extend a helping hand to the ordinary level artists to published their creations.
(9) To implement a sustanable program to strengthen the socio-economic conditionsof
the artists residing in the committee's territory .
(10) To implement programs to eradicate the socio environmental barriers to create a
moral and disciplined society .
(11) To submit recommendations for awards to regional artists in the Central Province.
(12) To organize regional arts festival.
(13) To organize various programms through this committee to develop the arts academies
in the region.
(14) To intervene in the welfare of the artists residing in the committee's territory .
(15) To provide financial sponsorships for arts, cultural, historic and religious affairs of the
region.
(16) To obtain the assitance required to the cultural events organized by the committee
from the government, provincial council, local government institutions, non-governmental
organizations and other legal entities.
(17) To bear the expenses for the programs, exhibitions, concerts and sales of the committee
members, reimburse that amount and obtain a pre decided portion of such income as revenue
(18) To engage in the coordination activities of programs aimed at preserving the visible
cultural heritage of the committee's territory .
(19) To collect funds to maintain committee's account.
11. Every Regional Cultural Committees shall maintain an account as per to the provisions
provided in the constitution of that committee.
12. A provincial cultural authority (herein after referred to as the authority) shall be established
for the province.
Accounts of
the Regional
Cultural
Committee
Establishment
of Provincial
Cultural
Authority

<!-- page 7 -->

7 AIV  ^w& fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'08'02
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  02.08.2017
(1) One  selected member from the office bearers of each regional cultural committee,
such as chairman, secretary or treasurer, can obtain the membership of the provincial
cultural authority .
(2) A chairman, a secretary , and a treasurer shall be selected at a general meeting from the
members of the provincial cultural authority .
(3) Provincial director shall hold the post of patron of the provincial cultural authority and
a cultural officer shall act as the coordinator of the committee.
(4) The tenure of authority is one year.
13. Powers of the provincial cultural authority shall be as follows:
(1) To monitor the procedures undertaken by the regional cultural committees to preserve
the invisible heritages of the province.
(2) To intervene to develop the religious places situated in the province and monitor the
development activities carried out in regional level.
(3) To form and monitor a program for the equal distribution of opportunities of welfare
programs and other different opportunities submitted by the Central Provincial Council
or by the Cultural Department of Central province from time to time for the benefit of
the artists who reside in central province.
(4) To enhance the quality  of various art creations conducted in the province, to contribute
to  upgrade the standards of artists and take actions to create a competitive background
to assess those creations.
(5) To build a platform for the opinions, proposals, ideas and contributions of artists
representing each  and every field and implement programs to ensure their identity .
(6) To create a mechanism to perform innovative cultural and arts programs in rural and
central provincial levels.
(7) To create opportunities to spread the culture and arts creations of central province to
the national and international levels and to create opportunities for the artists from
central province to exchange the knowledge of different countries.
(8) To extend a helping hand to the ordinary level artists to publish  their creations and
form a sustainable program to strenghten the socio-economic conditions of the artists.
(9) To enhance the quality of various art creations conducted in rural level, to contribute to
upgrade the standards of rural artists and take actions to create  a competitive
background to assess their creations in government level.
(10) To build a platform for the opinions, proposals, ideas and contributions of artists
representing each and every field  and implement programs to ensure their identity .
Powers of
Provincial
Cultural
Authority

<!-- page 8 -->

IV  ^w& fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'08'028  A
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  02.08.2017
(11) To create opportunities to spread the culture and arts creations of the territory of
central province to the national and international levels and to create opportunities for
the artists from the territory of central province to exchange the knowledge of different
countries.
(12) To extend a helping hand to the ordinary level artists to publish their creations.
(13) To implement a sustainable program to strengthen the socio-economic conditions of
the artists who live in the territory of central province.
(14) To implement programs to eradicate the socio environmental barriers to create a moral
and displined society .
(15) To organize various programs in view of developing the arts academies in the territory
of  he authority .
(16) To intervene in the welfare of the artists residing in the authority's territory .
(17) To provide financial sponsorships for arts, cultural, historic and religious programs
within the authority's territory .
(18) To obtain the assistance required to the cultural events organized by the authority from
the government, provincial  council, local government institutions, non-governmental
organizations and other legal entitles.
(19) To bear the expenses for the programs, exhibitions, concerts and sales of the members
of the authority, reimburse that amount and obtain a pre decided portion of such
income as revenue.
(20) To intervene in the coordinations activities of programs aimed at preserving the visible
cultural heritages of the authority's territory .
(21) To collect funds through various programs for the fund (the fund and the account)
created for the welfare of all artists.
14. The provincial authority shall have a constitution with particulars regarding the composition
of the authority , its accounts, and other provisions necessary for the maintenance of the
authority . The general provisions to  be included in the constitution shall be imposed from
time to time by the secretary with the recommendation of the  Provincial Director.
(1) The authority has the right to prepare its constitution as per to the requirement and not
contradict to the above mentioned general provisions.
15. The Provincial authority shall maintain and account as per the provisions of its constitutions.
16. The authority and all regional committees shall register them under the provincial director.
Constitution
of the
authority
Accounts of
the Authority
Registration
of the
authority and
the
committees

<!-- page 9 -->

9 AIV  ^w& fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'08'02
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  02.08.2017
17. Provisions needed for the registration mentioned in clause 16, shall be imposed by the
minister in charge of the subject by regulations.
Part IV
Establishment of  the Central Procincial Cultural Account
18. A separate account shall be maintained for cultural affairs under the central provincial
council fund. The funds of this account can be used for the purposes of the welfare of the
artists, to preserve folklore and folkarts, moral and spiritual and development and to preserve
the traditional heritages.
19. Credits of the accounts are as follows.
(1) Provisions allocated by the provincial council.
(2) All local foreign donations and financial assitances made to the department.
(3) All charges levied under this enactment.
(4) Revenue gained by the fund raising programs organized by the cultural department.
(5) Revenue gained through the cultural groups.
20. Funds shall be released by the provincial treasury after the submission of the estimate
prepared for the purpose of utilizing the funds of the account, signed by the ministry's
secretary to the treasury .
21. All transactions including the revenue and expenditure of the account shall be audited
annually by the auditor general. The report of these account shall be submitted to the
provincial council-for information-by the minister incharge for the subject after three months
from the completion of the financial year.
The minister incharge for the subject shall submit and annual report to the provincial council
within three months from the completion of the financial year.
Part V
General Provisions
22. (1) The minisiter can give orders to implement and enforsed the provisions of this enactment.
(2) (1)Minister can give orders on each of the following matters or regarding all matters in
a manner which won't affect the common state of the powers granted by the sub
section (1).
(3) Matters required implementing the duties and powers of the department, cultural groups,
cultural committees and central provincial cultural authority .
Establishment
of Central
Provincial
Cultural
Accounts
Credits of the
accounts
Auditing of
the account
Orders
imposed by
the
Paying money
from the
cultural
accounts

<!-- page 10 -->

IV  ^w& fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'08'0210  A
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  02.08.2017
(4) Provisions regarding theatres, Musical performances, shows at cinema halls,
entertainment activities and related matters except the approval of cinema movies for
exhibition and public performance.
(5) Provisions to set the standards and related matters regarding the production, sale and
distribution of "atapirikara" and other sacred items, clothes, jewelleries and artifacts of the
province which are identified  as " The provincial cultural heritages which shall be conserved."
(6) Provisons regarding traditional folk arts, traditional dances, songs, public performances
and related matters which are identified as "The provincial cultural heritages which shall be
conserved."
(7) All the orders made by the minister shall be published in the gazette and needed to be
presented to the provincial council and approved within three months of such publishing.
(8) All the orders rejected by the provincial council shall be repealed from the date of such
rejection in a manner which does not effect any activity executed under such order.
Part VI
Offences and Penalties
23. (1) Atapirikara, sacred items, clothes, jewelleries and artifacts of the province which are
named as "the provincial cultural heritages which shall be conserved" shall be produced,
only in accordance with the proper standards. If they are sold and distributed with the
intention of earning profits, it must be done in accordance with the proper standards.
(2) any person or and institution or a group of persons who produce, sell and distribute
"Atapirikara", sacred items, clothes and Jewelleries and artifacts named as "the provincial
cultural heritages which shall be conserved." and not in accordance with the proper standards,
is committing and offence under this enactment.
(3) Any person or an institution or a group of persons who committs an offence under sub
section 2, becoms and offender under this enactment and shall be subjected to a penalty of
either a fine not exceeding Rs. 25,000  or an imprisonment not exceeding two years or to
both penalties including the fine and the imprisonment, if found guilty after a short trial
before a Magistrate.
24. Any person who is violating any provision of this enactment or violating any regulation of
and order made under this enactment which is mentioned in subsections 23 (1) and 23 (2),
becomes and offeder under this enactment and shall be subjected to a penalty of either a
fine not exceeding 10,000 rupees or an imprisonment  not exceeding 6 months or two
both penalties including the fine and the imprisonment, if found guilty after a short trial
before a magistrate, in case that offence be not considered for special penalty under this
enactment.
It is an
offence to
produce
goods not in
accordance
with the
standards

<!-- page 11 -->

11 AIV  ^w& fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'08'02
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  02.08.2017
Part VII
Interim Provisions
25. The person who is serving as the provincial director of the cultural department of central
province from before to the effective date shall be consideded as the director appointed
under section 03 of this enactment for the matters of this enactment, and the officers
working in the  department from before the effetive date shall be considered as the officers
mentioned in the above section 4 of this enactment.
26. All assets, responsibilities, liabilities, low suits, and all contracts and agreements with the
department of cultural affairs which functioned before the effective date, will be considered
as the assets, responsibilities, liabilities, low suits and agreements of the department
established under this enactment.
27. In case another meaning needed with regard to the terms of this enactment, otherwise
The term "Visible cultural heritages" stand for all religious places, all places with cultural
importance, monuments, documents and items which would be conserved as ancient
heritages.
The term  "Invisible cultural heritages" stand for all religious and cultural festivals, folk
literature, traditional tales, traditional arts, magic and rituals.
The term " Governor" stands for the Governor of the Central Province.
The term "Minister" stands for the Minister incharge of Cultural Affairs of the Central
Province.
The term "Province" stands for the Central Province.
The term "Provincial Council" stands for the Central Provincial Council.
The term "Ministry's Secretary" Stand for the Secretary of the Ministry of Cultural Affairs
of the Central Province.
The term " Provincial Director" stands for the director of the department of cultural affairs
of Central Province.
The term "Provincial Cultural Officer" stands for the cultural officer of the central provincial
public service.
The term "Assets" stands for all the assets including the books, documents, cash in banks,
cash left in hand, furniture, buildings, lands, projects, all movable and immovable properties
belonging to the cultural fund, cultural committees and cultural authority .
The term "Recruitment procedure" stands for the recruitment procedure approved by the
central provincial governor.
Interpretation

<!-- page 12 -->

IV  ^w& fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'08'0212  A
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  02.08.2017
The term "Artist" stands for persons who are engaged permanently in the fields of singing,
music, dancing, literature, art, sculpture, carving, drama, cinema by their natural interest or
traditionally or by acquiring educational qualifications in these fields, as well as persons
who are rendering or have rendered a service to the society in these fields.
The term "Cultural affairs" stands for the matters mentioned under sections 25.1, 25.2,
29.1 and 28 of the first list of the sub section 09 of the constitution of 1978.
28. The department shall be considered as an institution sub-listed for the bribery act as per to
the explanation to that act and the provisions of that act shall be interpreted accordingly .
29. All the office bearers and employees of the department shall be considered as state officers
with regard to the matters of criminal procedure.
30. If there is any inconsistency between the sinhala and Tamil/English language versions of
this enactment, the Sinhala version shall considered effective.
08 - 648
To be
considered as
an institution
sub-listed
under the
bribery Act
Employee to
be considered
as state
officers
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.