

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 283]
————————
Presented by Hon. M. B. Farook M. P. for Vanni District
on 20th December, 2013
(Published in the Gazette on November 25, 2013)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5. 00
2-2d
THE FEDERATION OF PHOTOGRAPHIC SOCIETIES
OF SRI LANKA (INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Federation of Photographic Societies of Sri Lanka

<!-- page 2 -->

1The Federation of Photographic Societies
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
2—PL 007730—75  (11/2013)
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE FEDERATION OF PHOTOGRAPHIC
SOCIETIES OF SRI LANKA
WHEREAS a Federation called and known as the “ The
Federation of Photographic Societies of Sri Lanka ” has
heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of
effectually carrying out its objects and transacting all  matters
connected with the said Federation according to the rules
agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Federation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be expedient to grant the said
application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the 
The Federation of
Photographic Societies of Sri Lanka  (Incorporation) Act,
No.     of 2013.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many person as are now members of The
Federation of Photographic Societies of Sri Lanka (hereinafter
referred to as the “Federation”) or shall hereafter be admitted
as members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be
a body corporate with perpetual succession, under the name
and style of 
The “Federation of Photographic Societies of
Sri Lanka” (hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”) and
by that name may sue and be sued, with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and to alter the
same at its pleasure.
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation
of the
Federation of
Photographic
Societies of
Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 3 -->

The Federation of Photographic Societies
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
2
5
10
15
20
25
3. The general objects for which the Federation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to popularize the art of photography as an artistic
and technical media;
(b) to avail an oppoutunity in order to learn the
photographic art theoretically and practically free
of charge and to obtain any other professional
qualification in the field of photography;
(c) to facilitate the school students to learn the
photographic art free of charge as an aesthetic
subject;
(d) to take action in order to keep the photographic art
alive, and to safeguard the common rights of the
members of the societies;
(e) to publish any useful publication under the
sponsorship of the federation with the view of
promoting the field;
(f) to popularize the same among the photographic
societies so established; and
(g) to develope co-operation among the photographic
societies internally and internationally in order to
achieve the above objectivies; to educate how to
protect environment and to prepare for the future;
and to develop co-operation and friendship among
the societies.
4. (1) The management, control and administration of
the Corporation shall, subject to the provision of this Act,
and the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation,
vested in a Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as the
“Board”) consisting of the office bearers and such other
persons as may be provided for in such rules and elected in
accordance therewith.
30
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3The Federation of Photographic Societies
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(2) The first Board of the Corporation shall consist  of the
members of the Board of the Federation holding office on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
5. Subject to the provision of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the furtherance
of its objects or any one of them, including the power to
open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow or raise
moneys with or without security, to receive or collect grants
or donations, to invest its funds, to erect any builiding or
structure on any land held by the Corporation, and to engage,
employ and dismiss officers and servants required for the
carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
6.  (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less
than two  thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistence with the provision of this Act or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters:—
(a) the classification of membership, fees payable by
each class of members and admission, withdrawal,
expulsion or resignation of members and for the
maintaining of register of members;
(b) the election of office bearers of the Board or
vacation of or removal from, office and the powers,
duties and functions of the office bearers;
(c) the appointment, powers, duties and functions and
conditions of the various officers, agents and
servants of the Corporation;
(d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board, the
Corporation and any sub-committee thereof,
including the quorum therefore and the conduct of
business thereat;
General
Powers of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

The Federation of Photographic Societies
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
4
5
10
15
20
25
(e) the qualifications and disqualifications for
members of the Board and the Corporation ; and
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation for the accomplishment of the
objects the Corporation.
(2) The rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all time be
subject to rules of the Corporation made under this section.
(4) The rules of the Federation in force on the  day
preceding to date of commencement of this Act, shall in so
far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act or any other written law, be deemed to be rules of the
Corporation made under this section.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund. All
moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation, transfer,
subscription, contribution or fees shall be deposited to the
credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the Board
of Management shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporation,
all such sums of money as may be required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in carrying out the
objects of the Corporation.
8.  The Corporation shall be able and capable in law,
to take and hold any property movable or immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase
grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and
all such property shall be held by the Corporation
for the purposes of this Act, and subject to the rules in
force for the time being  of the Corporation with power to
sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of
the same.
Fund of the
Corporation.
30
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 6 -->

5The Federation of Photographic Societies
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
9. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of annual subscription payable  by
him to the Corporation.
10. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other institute or institutes
having objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which
is or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing
any income or property among its or their members. Such
institution or institutions shall be determined by the Board
at or immediately before the dissolution of the Corporation.
11. The main objective of the federation is to give due
recognition to the photographers as professionals while
accepting all other aesthetics as professions within
Sri Lankan territory. They shall comply to the code of ethics
to be followed by the professionals.
12.  (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor as may be determined by the Board.
In this section “qualified auditor” means—
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute ; or
Limitation of
liability of
members.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Protecting
the
Professionalism.
30
Accounts and
Audit.

<!-- page 7 -->

The Federation of Photographic Societies
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
6
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as Accountant issued by the Council of
such Institute.
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of such
number of person as may be duly aithorized by the Board
who shall sign their names on the instrument in token of their
presence and such  signing shall be independent of the signing
of any person as a witness.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or any body politic or
corporate or of any other person, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
5
10
15
20

<!-- page 8 -->

7The Federation of Photographic Societies
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .