

<!-- page 1 -->

wxl 2"104 - 2018 foieïn¾ ui 28 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'12'28
No. 2,104 -  FRIDAY , DECEMBER  28, 2018
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
PAGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ...    ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations ... 2
By-Laws ... 3
Posts - Vacant ...     —
         PAGE 
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 18th January, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 04th January, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
G
ANGANI LIYANAGE,
Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
1 - B 81481 - 5,403 (12/2018)

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.12.2018
2
SOUTHERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
FINALIZING the liquidations of Co-operative societies under the Co-operative Societies Act, No. 05 of 1972 as amended 
by the Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, No. 32 of 1983 and Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 
1992 in terms of the Provincial Council (Consequential provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989.
General Public is hereby notiﬁ ed in terms of the Section 57(2) of the Co-operative Societies Act, No. 05 of 1972 as amended 
by the Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act No. 32 of 1983 and Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 
1992 in terms of the Provincial Council (Consequential provisions) Act No. 12 of 1989 that the liquidations of the below 
mentioned Co-operative societies have already been ﬁ nalized in the dates mentioned ahead to each society's name.
 Serial  Prior Name of the Society Date Cancelled District
 No. Registration
  No.
 01. G.1203 Multipurpose Co-operative 28.04.2016 Galle
   Society Ltd. – Elpitiya.
 
 02. G/1223 Thrift and Credit Co-operative 13.07.2016 Galle
   Society Ltd, Andurannawila.
 
 03. G.1937 Regional Development Co-operative 28.04.2016 Galle
   Society Ltd., Ambalangoda  Electorate
 
 04. G/1958 Regional Development Co-operative 25.06.2018 Galle
   Society Ltd, Bentara-Elpitiya
   Electorate
 
 05. MR/570 Thrift and Credit Co-operative 23.01.2018 Matara
   Society Ltd, Wahala Kananke
 
 06. MR/736 Fisheries Co-operative Society 31.01.2018 Matara
   Ltd, Beliwatta
 
 07. SP/H/13 Handloom coir string knitters'' 21.08.2018 Hambantota
   Co-operative Society Ltd,
   Pahala Beligalla.
 Commissioner of Co-operative Development/Registrar
  Southern Province.
21st November, 2018.
Department of Co-operative Development,
Southern Province,
No. 147, Pettigalawatta, Galle.
12 - 683
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 28.12.2018
3
LOCAL AUTHORITIES (STANDARD BY-LAWS) ACT, No. 06 OF 1952
THE draft By-laws stated below and made by me, the minister in charge of the subject of Local Authorities of the Provincial 
Council of the North Western Province under the Section two of the Local Authorities (Standard By-Laws) Act No. 06 of 
1952, which should be read in conjunction with Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 are 
hereby published.
The powers are vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha by section 122 that should be read in conjuction with section 126 of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 for the legislation of By-laws that contain Provisions included in the said Draft By-
laws and the powers related to the acceptance of the By-laws for all the Pradeshiya Sabhas in the North Western Province 
subject to the Provisions stipulated in the aforementioned Section 2.
  A
THULA WIJESINGHE,
  Chief Minister and Minister in Charge of Local
  Administration,
  North Western Province
By-laws on the Public Libraries of Pradeshiya Sabhas
 1.  Objectives
  Provision of services of Public Library has been initiated and maintained by the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha for the 
provisions of resources and services that consist of various media in order to fulﬁ l educational information and personal 
development as well as creative and recreational needs of people and social groups residing within the jurisdiction 
of the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha and these By-laws are imposed to provide relevant Provisions for that purpose.
 2.  The public Libraries of the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha consist of the following sections and Services as per the 
requirements of the people residing in the area.
 I.  Lending Section
 II.  Reference Section
 III.  Children's Section
 IV .  Periodicals Section and Newspaper Section
 V .  Audio Visual and information Communication Technology Section 
 VI.   Studies Section
 VII.  Books preservation Section
 VIII.  Rare Books Section
 IX.  Special Collections and Regional Collections
 X.  Information Science and Documentation Services Section
 XI.  Library Services for disabled hospital and prison community
 XII.  Photocopy Services
 XIII. Community Information Services
 XIV .  Extension Services (Mobile and Branch library Exhibitions, Film shows, lectures etc.)
 XV .  Other Information Services
 3.  There should be a Librarian in every Public Library of the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha and the person so appointed 
should be answerable to the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha on the regulation of the Organization and the  Management 
of the Library.
 i.  The Community Development Of ﬁ cer should report to the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha on the regulation of the 
Organization and the Management of the Public Library.
By -Laws

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.12.2018
4
 4.  A Library Advisory Committee hereinafter referred to as ''Committee" should be appointed to consult and guide the 
Bingiriya Public Library Service.
 i.   The Committee is appointed annually by the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha and it shall consist of the following 
persons.
 (a)  Chairman
 (b)  Members not less than three persons from among the members of the Council so as to include one 
member from one group representing all the groups.
 (c)  One representative for each religion to represent religious beliefs of the people residing in the jurisdiction 
of the Council.
 (d) Four chieftains living in the area
 (e)  Secretary of the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha
 (f) Community Development Of ﬁ cer
 (g)  Librarians of all  the libraries of the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha.
 (h)  Representative of a Community Board of the Jurisdiction of the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha.
 (i)  A Principal of a School in the Jurisdiction of the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha.
 ii.  The number of members in the Committee should not exceed 23.
 iii.  The chairman shall be the ex-of ﬁ cio Chairman of the Library Advisory Committee and he shall preside at 
every meeting of the Committee and where the Chairman fails to be present at any such meeting, a member 
elected from among the members present at such meeting shall preside at such meeting.
 iv.  The Community Development Of ﬁ cer shall be the Secretary of the Committee.
 5.  The quorum :
 (a)  The quorum for any meeting of such committee shall be one second of the number of members of the Committee.
 (b)  The person presiding at any meeting shall have the right to vote at any such meeting and in the event number of 
votes for and against is equal in relation to a certain issue, the Chairman shall have a casting vote too.
6.   (i) Membership :
 (i)  A person shall have the following quali ﬁ cations to obtain the membership of the Bingiriya Library.
 (ii)  The person should be more than 12 years in age for obtaining the general membership and should be less 
than 12 years in age for obtaining the children's membership : and
 (iii)  A resident or a person obtaining education or a property owner or an employee within the jurisdiction of the 
Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha.
  ii. Membership Fees :
  A fee of Rs. 50.00 shall be paid at the commencement of the membershiip and the membership shall  be renewed 
by paying Rs. 30 per year. The Fee for Child members is half of the fee. However, the Membership fees may be 
speciﬁ ed by a resolution passed by the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time as per the recommendation of 
the Committee. 
  iii. Guarantors :
 (i)  A payer of an assessment tax within the jurisdiction of the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha or a permanent 
ofﬁ cer of the Public Service/Provincial Public Service should be introduced as a guarantor.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 28.12.2018
5
(ii)  When child readers and school students are applying for the membership, mother/ father/guardian/
principal/class teacher should certify the application for the membership.
(iii) The certiﬁ cate issued by the Grama Niladhari should be submitted for permanent residence. 
iv. Obtaining the Membership :
(i) Every person who is willing to obtain library services of the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha should apply for
membership by paying a fee prescribed by a resolution passed by the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha from time
to time and by obtaining an application from the librarian and the application should be certiﬁ ed by a person
mentioned below :
1. Grama Niladhari of the residing area,
2. A religious priest,
3. Justice if Peace,
4. Staff Ofﬁ  cer of the Public Service or Provincial Public Service,
5. A member of the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha,
6. Certiﬁ  cate of the teacher in charge of the class or principal in case the applicant is a school student.
7. The member shall be responsible for each book he obtains from the library under the card issued to him. The
number of membership cards to be issued to every member should be determined on a resolution passed by
the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time on the recommendation made by the Library Advisory
Committee.
8. A book taken by a member of the Lending Section shall be returned to the librarian within fourteen (14) from
the date of issuing the book. If any other member has not requested for the same book and the member who
was issued with the book requested it for another time, permission may be granted by the librarian to the
member to lend the book for another fourteen (14) days.
9. Where a member defaults to return a book taken from the Lending Section within the period of 14 days
stipulated in the By-law 8, the member is subject to pay a ﬁ ne of Rs. 1.00 each and 50 cents each for child
readers for one day that exceeds the date of returning the book to the library or to pay a certain amount as ﬁ nes
speciﬁ ed by a resolution passed by the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time on the recommendation
of the Committee.
10. Fines are charged as mentioned below for a book obtained by a member from the lending library subsequent
to exceeding the duration of 14 days stipulated in the By-laws 8.
Rs. 1.00 each for a book per day for 1-30 days.
Rs. 40.00 each for a book 31-90 days.
Rs. 80.00 each for a book for 91-180 days.
Rs. 100.00 each for a book for more than 180 days
However, a half of the late fee mentioned in the By-law 10 should be levied in case the member is a child 
reader.
11. When a book issued to a member is considered lost, such member shall pay the value of the book, binding cost 
and cost of replacement of such book and the ﬁ ne stipulated in the by-laws 10. The Librarian should determine 
the charges to be levied based on the standard methods and recommendations of the Advisory Committee.
12. No member shall damage or dis ﬁ gure a book taken from the lending section of the library.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.12.2018
6
 13.  Every member should inform the librarian regarding any damage happened to a book obtained from the 
lending section of the library.  If any member fails to inform such a damage or disﬁ guration to the librarian, 
it is deemed that book has been issued to the member without any damage or disﬁ guration.
 14.  Where the librarian is satis ﬁ ed that a book returned by any member has been damaged or disﬁ gured to such an 
extent that it cannot be issued again to another, such member shall be bound to bear the contemporary cost of 
replacement of such book. After replacement of such book, the damaged or disﬁ gured book shall be returned 
to the member with the endorsement "the public library has sold this as a damaged book". The accession 
number of the lost book should be given to the book that is replaced so. If it is not possible to replace, action 
should be taken in terms of the 11th By-law considering it as a lost book.
15.     (i)   No member shall alienate a book taken from the Lending Section.
     
  (ii)  A member who violates the Provisions stipulated in the First Para of these By-laws will be disentitled to his/
her membership fee and overall lending library membership of the relevant member will also be abolished.
16.  (i)  No person shall return a book which he knows, has been used by a person suffering from any infectious or 
contagious disease, to the Lending Section and the member shall immediately notify the incident to the librarian 
and he/she  should act according to the instructions and directives given by the Librarian in relation to the 
book.
 (ii)  When a book obtained by a member from the library has been used by a person suffering from any infectious 
or contagious disease, such book has to be destroyed; and
 (iii)  Such member shall pay the replacement cost of such book to the librarian.
 17.  Where  there is a difference of opinion as to which member between two or among more members of the lending 
section a particular book should be issued, the dispute shall be resolved by the librarian.
 
 18. When any book or a library material in the lending section of the library is requested by a certain member. it should 
be issued. In case the said book has already been issued, the librarian should take action to mark the name/names of 
the member/members requested the book in a waiting list and provide the library materials subsequent to receiving 
such materials to the library.
 19.  The Library should be kept open for readers for the number of hours on the prescribed days as per the standards of 
the National Library and Documentation Services Board. However, the days and times of opening the library can be 
decided in accordance with the discretion of the Council due to a speciﬁ c reason.
 20. Reference Section:
 (i)  The books kept in the reference section should be used after signing the register kept in the Reference Section 
with the permission of the Librarian.
 (ii)  Any library material issued for the member for reading should not be carried outside the Reference Section. 
However, a person who request photocopies should be allowed to obtain photocopies of the required pages of 
a publication by paying the prescribed charges under the approval and custodianship of the Librarian in case 
a photocopy service is in operation.
 21. The reading Hall should be kept open from 8.00 a.m. to 8.00 p.m. on every day of the week or on times and days 
decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha on the Recommendation made by the Committee. Any person is permitted to obtain 
services of the Reading Hall after mentioning the name and time of arrival and signing the register kept in the reading 
hall.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 28.12.2018
7
 22. No person shall destroy or remove any newspaper, periodical, magazine, map or any other library material kept in 
the Reading Hall.
 23. No person shall –
 (i)  Conduct himself in such a way in the library premises or in its vicinity so as to cause a nuisance to any person;
 (ii)  Cause loss or damage to or dis ﬁ gure in any manner the library or the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha building 
situated in close proximity or any part of the library or the Pradeshiya Sabha building;
 (iii)  Mark time in the library or in its surroundings having no acceptable reason for his presence therein after the 
library is closed to the public;
 (iv)  smoke within the library premises;
 (v)  disturb the users of the library by shouting, singing or making any other loud noises;
 (vi)  bring any animal in to the library;
 (vii)  sleep or take meals within any part of the library;
 (viii)  Obstruct the librarian or any person acting on his directions from exercising the powers conferred on his under 
these by-laws.
 (ix)  Shooting , broadcasting sounds and recording inside the library without obtaining permission is not allowed 
and shall not obstruct the librarian in exercising the powers conferred in him/ her under these by-laws.
 (x)  It is prohibited to bring mobile phones, cameras and lighters inside the library. The Librarian reserves the power 
of removing any person out of the library premises who does not function in compliance with these By-laws.
 24. A fee decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha on the recommendation of the Committee can be charged from persons who 
are not members of the library for using the Reference Section and the other sections except the Lending Section.
 25. Annual veri ﬁ cation of Goods : - Conducting an Annual Veri ﬁ cation of Goods for libraries in every year is the 
responsibility of the Secretary of the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha. The reports on Annual Veriﬁ cation of Goods should 
be submitted to the Pradeshiya Sabha. The recommendations passed by the Bingiriya Pradeshiay Sabha should be 
executed within three months from the date of passing the resolution in the Pradeshiya Sabha.
 26. Extension Services – The Pradeshiya Sabha has to facilitate the conduct of Lectures, Seminars, workshops and the 
other extension services.
 27. In case any non-governmental institution/organization conducts any library/ library services within the jurisdiction of 
Local Governmental Body, the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha, the institution/ organization has to obtain the prior approval 
of the relevant Local Governmental Body, viz, the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha. (This Provision is not effective for 
school libraries, Piriven Libraries and libraries in religious places.)
 28. Provisions may be made to impose a punishment with an additional penalty not more than two hundred and ﬁ fty 
rupees and disentitlement of the membership for each day of continuing the breach further after imposing a penalty 
not more than seven hundred and ﬁ fty rupees for doing a certain act or an omission in order to establish the breach 
pertaining to the breach of these by laws and upon conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction be liable to any 
punishment or subsequent to submitting a written notice by the Chairman or any Authorized Ofﬁ cer of the Bingiriya 
Pradeshiya Sabha by paying attention on such breach of By-laws.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.12.2018
8
  In these by-laws, unless the context otherwise requires;
  "Librarian" means the major of ﬁ cer who is functioning in charge of the Public Library of the Bingiriya Pradeshiya 
Sabha belonging to the Library Service, appointed by the Provincial Public Service Commission of the North Western 
Province. 
  "Community Development Of ﬁ cer" means the staff Of ﬁ cer appointed by the Commissioner of Local Government 
for Community developmental activities of the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha.
  "Library Resources" means written, printed, audio, visual media and electric media.
  "Sabha" means the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha
  "The Committee" means the Library Advisory Committee.
  "Chieftains" means educated and intelligent persons residing in the jurisdiction of the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha 
who accomplish distinguishable and outstanding social service.
12 – 937/1
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.