

<!-- page 1 -->

10 Public Service Pensioners’ Trust Fund
Act, No.40 of 1999
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
PUBLIC  SERVICE  PENSIONERS’  TRUST
FUND  ACT,  No. 40  OF  1999
[Certified on 30th November , 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of  December 03, 1999.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
TO BE PURCHASED A T THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICA TIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01
Price: Rs. 6.75 Postage: Rs. 3.50
(Internet Version)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Public Service Pensioners’ Trust Fund
Act, No.40 of 1999
[Certified on 30th November, 1999]
L.D. - O. 57/96.
A N  A CT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  A  TRUST  FUND
CALLED  THE  PUBLIC  SERVICE  PENSIONERS ’ TRUST  FUND  ; TO
SPECIFY  ITS OBJECTS  AND  POWERS  AND  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  MATTERS
              CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-
1. This Act may be cited as the Public Service
Pensioners’ Trust Fund Act, No.40 of 1999, and shall come
into operation on such date (hereinafter referred to as the
“appointed date”) as the Minister may appoint by Order
published in the Gazette.
2. (1) There shall be established a Trust Fund which
shall be called the Public Service Pensioners’ Turst Fund
 (hereinafter referred to as “ the Fund”)
(2) The Fund shall, by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession, and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
such name.
3. (1) The administration, management and control of
the Fund shall be vested in an Executive Committee consitituted
as hereinafter provided, subject to the direction and control
of the General Council.
(2) The Executive Committee shall consist of -
(a) a Chairman, three Vice- Chairmen, a Secretary, and
Assistant Secretary, a Treasurer and an Assistant
Treasurer, elected by the General Council ; and
(b) one  representative    from    each   district   level
Pensioner’s Association.
(3) A member of the Executive Committee shall, unless
he dies, resigns from office by letter addressed to the Chairman
or Secretary , or is removed from office  by the General Council
or the district level Pensioners’ Association, as the case may
Short title and
date of operation.
H- 022545
Establishment of
the Public
Service
Pensioners’ Trust
Fund.
Executive
Committee.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Public Service Pensioners’ Trust Fund
Act, No.40 of 1999
 be, hold office from the date of his election or nomination, as
the case may be, until the next annual general meeting of the
General Council.
4.  The General Council shall consist of the members of
the Executive Committee, one representative from each
district level Pensioners’ Association and one representative
from each divisional leval Pensioner’s Association. It shall be
the duty of the General Council to determine the guidelines
for the administration and management of the Fund, by the
Executive Committee.
5. (1) The General Council shall meet once a year.
  (2) the Director of Pensions shall summon the first annual
meeting of  the General Council, and shall preside at, and
conduct that meeting.
  (3) The District Secretary for an Adminstrative District
shall summon the first meeting of the Pensioners’
Association formed for that Administrative District, and shall
preside at, and conduct such meeting.
    (4) The Divisional Secretary for a Divisional Secretary’s
Division shall summon the first meeting of the Pensioners’
Association formed for that Divisional Secretary’;s  Division
and shall preside at, and conduct such meeting.
  (5) The Executive Committee shall be elected or
nominated as the case may be at the Annual Meeting of the
General Council.
  (6) At least fourteen days’ notice in writing shall be given
by any member of the General Council to the Secretary, of any
motion required to be brought up at the annual meeting of the
General Council.
General Council.
Meetings of the
General Council.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Public Service Pensioners’ Trust Fund
Act, No.40 of 1999
      (7) The agenda of the annual meeting , of the General
Council shall be notified in writing , by the Secretary , to all
members of the General Council at least seven days before
such meeting.
6. The quorum at the annual meeting of the General
Council shall be one third of the total membership of the
General Council.
7. (1) the Executive Committee shall meet at least once
in every month.
     (2) The Executive Committee may call a special meeting
of the General Council at any time to deal with urgent matters.
     (3) The agenda of such a special meeting of the
General Council shall be notified in writing by the Secretary to
all members of the General Council at least seven days before
such meeting.
    (4) No business other than that specified in the notice
summoning a special meeting of the General Council shall be
transacted at such meeting.
8. The quorum at a special meeting of the General
Council shall be one third of the total membership of the
General Council.
9. (1) The Chairman shall preside at every meeting of
the Executive Committee. In the absence of the Chairman
from any meeting of the Executive Committee, one of the
Vice- Chairmen shall preside at such meeting.
  (2) Subject to the provisions of this Act and any rules
made thereunder, the Executive Committee may regulate the
procedure in regard to its meetings and the transaction of
business at such meetings.
     (3) No act or proceeding of the Executive Committee
shall be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence
of a vacancy among it’s members or any defect in the election
or nomination of a member thereof.
Quorum at
Annual Meeting.
Meetings of the
Executive
Committee.
Quorum at
special Meeting
Meetings of the
Executive
Committee

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Public Service Pensioners’ Trust Fund
Act, No.40 of 1999
10. The object of the Fund shall be to promote the gen-
eral well- being of pensioners, by assisting them to maintain
their integrity dignity.
11. (1) the Executive Committee shall, in the name of the
Fund but subject to the direction and control of the General
Council have the power to do all things necessary for, or
conducive or incidental to, the carrying out of the object of
the Fund.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by subsection (1) the Executive Committee shall
have the following powers :-
(a) to acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire,
mortgage, pledge and sell or otherwise dispose of,
any movable or immovable property ;
(b) to open and maintain current, savings or deposit
accounts in any bank or banks ;
(c) to employ such officers and servants as may be
necessary for the purpose of administering and
managing the fund ;
(d) to enter into all such agreements as may be
necessary for the purpose of carrying out the
object of the Fund ; and
(e) to do all such other acts and things as are incidental
or conducive to the carrying out the object of the
Fund.
12. The seal of the Fund shall be in the custody of such
persons as the Executive Committee may from time to time
determine. The seal shall not be affixed to any instrument or
document except with the sanction of the Executive
Committee and in the presence of the Chairman and the
Treasurer or Vice chairman or an Assistant Secretary, who
shall sign the instrument or document in token of their
presence, and such signing shall be independent of the
signing of any person as a witness.
The object of the
Fund.
Powers and
functions of the
Executive
Committee.
Seal of the Fund.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Public Service Pensioners’ Trust Fund
Act, No.40 of 1999
13. There shall be deducted from the monthly pension
payable to a pensioner, such sum as may be determined if
such pensioner consents in writing to such deduction. All
deductions made in pursuance of the provisions of this
section, shall be credited to the Fund.
14. there shall be paid into the Fund -
(a) All deductions made under section 13 ;
(b) all funds raised, or grants, gifts or donations
received, by the Fund, from local or foreign sources;
(c) all income derived from investments of the Fund.
     15. There shall be paid out of the Fund -
(a) all expenses incurred in the working, establishment
or maintenance of the Fund ; and
(b) all such other payments as are approved by the
Executive Committee as being necessary for the
purpose of carrying out the object of the Fund or
as are authorised by this Act, to be paid out of the
Fund.
16. (1) The Executive Committee shall cause proper
accounts to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets
and liabilities, and all other transactions of the Fund.
(2) the accounts of the Fund shall be audited, by a
qualified auditor elected by the General Council at the previ-
ous annual general meeting.
(3) The audit or referred to in subsection (2) shall as soon
as practicable after the thirty-first day of December of each
year, prepare a report on the administration of the affairs of
the Fund, during that year, together with a statement of the
income and expenditure of the Fund and of the investment of
the money belonging to the Fund during that year. The auditor
shall transmit such reports to the Executive Committee which
shall cause a copy thereof to be placed before the General
Council at the next annual meeting of the General Council.
Payment to the
Fund.
Monthly
deduction from
pensions.
Payment out of
Fund.
Audit and
Accounts.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Public Service Pensioners’ Trust Fund
Act, No.40 of 1999
(4) In this section the expression “qualified auditor”
means -
(a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of  Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practise as an accountant issued by the
Council of such Institute ; or
(b) a firm of Chartered Accountants, each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the Institute,
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practise as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute.
17. The Executive Committee may make such rules as it
may consider necessary in relation to any matter affecting, or
connected with, or incidental to, the exercise, discharge and
performance of its powers, duties and  functions. (including
provision relating to the election of the Executive Committee
by the General Council, election of representatives, of district
level Pensioners’ Associations to the Executive Committee
and the summoning and conduct of meetings of the General
Council and all matters relating to district level and divisional
level Pensioner’s Associations).
18. (1) No suit or prosecution shall be instituted against
any member of the Executive Committee, or any officer or
servant of the Fund for any act which is in good faith done or
purported to be done by such member, officer or servant un-
der this Act or on the direction of the Executive Committee.
(2) Any expenses incurred by the Fund in any suit or
prosecution brought by or against the Fund before any Court
shall be paid out of the Fund, and any costs paid to or received by
the Fund in any such suit or prosecution, shall be credited to
the Fund.
Power to make
rules.
Protection of
members of the
Executive
Committee for
action taken under
this Act.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Public Service Pensioners’ Trust Fund
Act, No.40 of 1999
(3) Any expenses incurred by any member, officer or
servant as is referred to in subsection (1) in any suit or
prosecution brought against him before any Court in respect
of any act which is done or purported to be done, by him
under this Act, or on the direction of the Executive Committee
shall, if the Court holds that such act was done in good faith,
be paid out of the Fund, unless such expenses are recovered
by him in such suit or prosecution.
19. No writ against person or property shall be issued
against any member of the Executive Committee in any action
brought against the Fund.
20. The Fund shall be deemed  to be a Scheduled
Institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and the
provisions of that Act shall  apply accordingly.
21. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
22. in this Act, unless the context otherwise requires -
“ District Level Pensioners’ Association” means an
association of  pensioners formed for an
administrative district ;
“ Divisional Level Pensioners’ Association” means an
association of pensioners formed for a divisional
secretaries’ division ;
No writ to issue
against person or
property of
member of the
Executive
Committee.
Fund deemed to
be a Scheduled
Institution within
the meaning of
the Bribery Act.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Public Service Pensioners’ Trust Fund
Act, No.40 of 1999
“Pensioner” means a person who is in receipt of pension
out of funds provided by the Government _
(a) by virture of his service as a public officer, a mem-
ber of the Local Government Service constituted
under the Local Government Service Law, No.16 of
1974 or a member of the armed forces ;
(b) by virtue of his or her being the widow, widower or
orphan of a person referred to in paragraph (a).

<!-- page 10 -->

9Public Service Pensioners’ Trust Fund
Act, No.40 of 1999
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180 (Foreign),
Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , No. 32, TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.