

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2321$64 - 2023 ud¾;= ui 02 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2023'03'02
No. 2321/64  -  thursday,   march  02,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6243 - 286 (03/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L. d. B. - 21/1978(X) (d)
ThE  uNIvERSITIES  ACT,  No. 16  Of 1978
Order under Section 27(1)(b) read with Section 25A
By virtue of the powers vested in me by section 27(1)(b) read with section 25a  of the universities act, No. 16 of 1978, 
I, dr. a. d. susil Premajayantha, the minister of Education, having obtained a report under section 70c of the aforesaid 
act, in respect of the Institute of chartered accountants of sri Lanka (IcasL), established under the Institute of chartered 
accountants act, No. 23 of 1959 and Located at No.30a, malalasekara mawatha, colombo 7, being recognized as a 
degree awarding Institute, do by this Order, amend the schedule II to the Order made under the said act, and published 
in Gazette Extraordinary, No. 2302/17 of October 19, 2022, by the addition immediately after the entry “Bachelor of 
Applied Accounting” appearing in Column I and its corresponding entry in Column II there of, of the entries specified under   
Column I and Column II respectively of the Schedule II hereto, subject to the conditions specified in Schedule I hereto.
schEduLE I
Conditions
 1. Institute of chartered accountants of sri Lanka (IcasL) shall, when admitting students for the degree programme 
specified in Schedule II hereto II hereto in respect of the Master of Public Financial Management, (SLQF Level 9), 
adhere to the minimum entry qualification of –
 (a) a Bachelor’s degree recognised by the university Grants commission of sri Lanka (uGc) or the ministry 
of Education of Sri Lanka, including 30 credits in the subject area of Accounts or Finance;

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023
2a
 (b) being an officer of any level in Sri Lanka Accountant’s Service, State Audit Service or any service related 
to Inland Revenue, a recognised Bachelor’s degree or equivalent professional qualifications or higher 
qualifications;
 (c) being a Finance Manager, Accountant or an  officer holding a similar post in any State corporation, 
statutory body or any other similar Government Institution, a recognised Bachelor’s degree or equivalent 
professional qualifications or higher qualifications in the relevant field;
 (d) being any other Government employee, a recognised Bachelor’s degree or equivalent professional 
qualifications in Accounts or Finance or any other related subject with three (3) years’ experience in the 
relevant field;
 (e) being a person who is interested to follow the programme, a recognised Bachelor’s degree or equivalent 
professional qualifications, with three (3) years post qualifying work experience in the relevant field; or
 (f) the completion of National V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) (SLQF Level 7) in the relevant subject area 
and recognised by tertiary and V ocational Education commission (tVEc) of sri Lanka (established under 
the tertiary and V ocational Education act, No. 20 of 1990), as determined by the academic authority of 
the Institute of chartered accountants of sri Lanka (IcasL).
 2. For the purpose of this Order, following qualifications are accepted as relevant professional qualifications: -
 (a) Higher National Diploma in Accountancy (HNDA) four (4) year course;
 (b) Higher National Diploma in Management or Commerce of Ceylon Technical College;  or
 (c) Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA), Chartered Accountant (CA), Chartered Institute of Management 
Accountants (CIMA), Association of Chartered certified Accountants (ACCA) or Charter holders.
 3. Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) is recognized to offer the degree specified in Schedule II 
hereto, subject to the five (5) year re-review conducted by the Specified Authority.
schEduLE II
Column I
Degree Programmes
Column II
Abbreviation to the Degrees
master of Public Financial Management MPFM
 
 dr. A. d. susil PremAjAyAnthA (m.P.),
 minister of Education.
colombo,
27th February, 2023.
EOG 03-0013
Printed At the dePArtment oF GoVernment PrintinG,  sri lAnKA.