

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1365
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … 1362
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"233 – 2021 cqks ui 18 jeks isl=rdod – 2021'06'18
No. 2,233 –  fRiday,  juNE  18, 2021
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE ”
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 09th july, 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th june, 2021.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st january, 2021.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1359 - B 82240 - 5,403 (06/2021)      
N. B.–    (i) Part i:iii, ii, iii and iV(B) of the Gazette No. 2,232 of 11.06.2021 were not published. 
 (ii) the list of jurors of Polonnaruwa jurisdiction areas in year 2021 has been published in Part Vi of this Gazette in Sinhala 
and tamil languages.


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1360
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
january 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the financial 
year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular force personnel in the army, Navy and air force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1361
RuLES  AND INSTRuCTIONS  fOR ExAmINATION  CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the Sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 II. Disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. Moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. In case the supervisor or the examination staff  
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. Breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. It is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ She shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like Bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. Since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. Marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
Make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1362
Posts – vacant
uNIvERSITy hOSPITAL
General Sir John kotelawala Defence university 
V acaNciES
GENERaL  Sir john Kotelawala defence university 
Hospital calls  applications from qualified persons for the 
following posts.
1. medical Consultant 
 1. consultant General Physician
 2. consultant Emergency Physician
 3. consultant anaesthetist 
 4. consultant intensivist
 5. consultant cardiologist
 6. consultant Paediatric cardiologist 
 7. consultant chemical Pathologist
 8. consultant Nephrologist
 9. consultant Haematologist
 10. consultant Gastroenterologist
 11. consultant Neurologist
 12. consultant family Medicine
 13. consultant Endocrinologist
 14. consultant obstetrician & Gynecologist
 15. consultant Vascular Surgeon 
 16. consultant ENt Surgeon
 17. consultant transplantation Surgeon ( ability to 
transplant, Kidney, Liver and Biliary duct) 
 18. consultant cardiothoracic Surgeon
 19. consultant Gastrointestinal Surgeon
 20. consultant Maxillofacial Surgeon  
 21. consultant orthodontist 
Qualifications:
 (i) Medical Officers and Dental Surgeon who are 
registered / registerable   in the Sri Lanka Medical 
council according to the Medical (amendment) 
act, No.28 of 2018
oR
 (ii) Medical Officers / Dental Surgeons with valid 
full registration of Sri Lanka Medical council 
(SLMc)
aNd
 (iii) doctor of Medicine (Md) Master of Surgery (MS) 
in the relevant specialty with Board Certification 
of Post-Graduate institute of Medicine (PGiM), 
university of colombo, Sri Lanka [appendix i 
of the Gazette (Extraordinary) No.1883/17 dated 
11.10.2014 of the democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka].
aNd
 (iv) Certificate of Good Standing from Sri Lanka 
Medical council (SLMc)
Salary Scale:  Mc  1-2 - Rs.(91,645 – 12 x 2,700 - 
124,045. the Medical consultant Grade i will be placed on 
Mc 1-2 Step 1 - Rs. 91,645.00
2. Medical Officer - Grade I
Qualifications:
 (i) Medical Officer with valid full Registration of Sri 
Lanka Medical council (SLMc) for practicing as a 
Medical Officer.
aNd
 (ii) a minimum of six (06) years of experience as a 
Grade II Medical Officer in institution coming 
under the Ministry of Health or Hospitals registered 
with private Health Services Regulatory council of 
Ministry of Health, Sri Lanka under the category of 
“Private Hospitals, Nursing Homes and Maternity 
Homes”.
        aNd
 (iii) A recognized post graduate qualification mentioned 
in appendix ii of the Gazette (Extraordinary) 
No. 1883/17 dated 11.10.2014 of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
         aNd
 (iv) Certificate of Good standing from the Sri Lanka 
Medical council (SLMc)
Salary Scale: Mo 1-1 Rs. (58,675 - 3x 1,375 - 7x1,385 
- 2x1,910 - 10x2,270-99,015). The Medical Officer Grade I 
will be placed on Mo 1-1 Step 14 - Rs.78,585.00

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1363
3. Dental Surgeon - Grade I
Qualifications:
 (i) dental Surgeons with valid full registration of Sri 
Lanka Medical council (SLMc) for practicing as 
a dental Surgeon.
  aNd
 (ii) a minimum of nine (09) years of experience 
as a Grade ii dental Surgeon in institutions 
coming under the Ministry of Health or Hospitals 
registered with Private Health Services Regulatory 
council of Ministry of Health, Sri Lanka under the 
category of “Private Hospitals, Nursing Homes 
and Maternity Homes ˮ.
  aNd
 (iii) A recognized post graduate qualification 
mentioned in appendix ii of the Gazette 
(Extraordinary) No. 1883/17 dated 11.10.2014 of 
the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
  aNd
 (iv) Certificate of good Standing from Sri Lanka 
Medical council (SLMc).
Salary Scale: Mo 1-1 Rs. (58,675 - 3x1,375 - 7x1,385-
2x1910-10x2,270 - 99,015) the dental Surgeon Grade i 
will be placed on Mo 1-1 Step 14 - Rs.78,585.00.
4. Medical Officer - Grade II
Qualifications:
 (i) Medical Officer with valid full registration of Sri 
Lanka Medical council (SLMc) for practicing 
as a Medical Officer.
  aNd
 (ii) a  minimum of two (02) years of experience as a 
Medical Officer in institutions coming under the 
Ministry of Health or Hospitals registered with 
Private Health Services Regulatory council 
of Ministry of Health, Sri Lanka under the 
category of “Private Hospitals, Nursing Homes 
and Maternity Homes”.
  aNd
 (iii) Certificate of good standing from Sri Lanka 
Medical council (SLMc).
Salary Scale: Mo 1-1 Rs. (58,675 - 3×1,375 - 7×1,385-
2×1,910-10×2,270 - 99,015). The Medical Officer Grade II 
will be placed on Mo 1-1 Step 5- Rs.64,185.00
5. Dental Surgeon - Grade II
Qualifications:
 (i) dental Surgeon with valid full registration of Sri 
Lanka Medical council (SLMc) for practicing 
as a dental Surgeon.
  aNd
 (ii) Certificate of good standing from the Sri Lanka 
Medical council (SLMc).
Salary Scale: Mo 1-1 Rs. (58,675 - 3x1,375 - 7x1,385-
2x1,910-10x2,270 - 99,015). the dental Surgeon Grade ii 
will be placed on Mo 1-1 Step 1- Rs.58,675.00
6. Medical Officer - Preliminary Grade
Qualifications:
 (i) Medical Officers with valid full registration of Sri 
Lanka Medical council (SLMc) for practicing as 
a Medical Officer.
  aNd
 (ii) Certificate of good standing from Sri Lanka 
Medical council (SLMc).
Salary Scale: Mo 1-1 Rs.(58,675 - 3x1,375 - 7x 1,385 
- 2x 1,910 - 10 x2,270 - 99,015). The Medical Officer 
Preliminary Grade will be placed on Mo 1-1 Step 2 - 
Rs.60,050.00
General Conditions:
 (i) Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) Shall be adequate physical and mental fitness to 
discharge the duties of the post well, and to serve 
in the General Sir john Kotelawala defence 
university Hospital or at any other place, as may 
be determined by the university administration.
 (iii) Shall be of excellent moral character.
 (iv) the applicants should have completed all 
requisite qualifications by the closing date of 
applications.
 (v) these posts are permanent and the Medical 
Officer Preliminary Grade and other posts which 
are not from the special grades are subject to 
a probation period of three (03) years, while 
officers who had served in the posts of Medical 
Officer Grade I, Dental Surgeon Grade I, Medical 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1364
Officer Grade II and Dental Surgeon Grade II and 
other special grade posts in the public service, 
are subject to a probation period of one (01) year.
 (vi) Medical consultants shall be required to teach 
and train Medical and allied Health Sciences 
undergraduates and Postgraduate students under 
the supervision and direction of the deans and 
respective Heads of department of faculties 
Medicine and allied Health Science.
 (vii) contribution of the employee to Employees 
Provident fund (EPf) is 10% and the university 
will contribute 15% for (EPf) and 3% for 
Employees Trust Fund (ETF). (Subject to 
revisions that may be introduced by Parliament 
by law).
 (viii) Duly completed applications with certified 
copies of Educational, Professional and Service 
certificates shall be submitted under registered 
post to reach “Executive director, General Sir 
john Kotelawala defence university Hospital, 
JuDICIAL   SERvICE  COmmISSION
Recruitment  to the post  of Registrar of the Court 
of Appeal of Sri Lanka  - 2021
iN terms of the provision  set out  in Scheduled  Public  
Officers Service Minute published  in the extra ordinary 
Gazette No 2088/26 dated 11.09.2018,a notification was 
published in Gazette No.2228 dated 13.05.2021 calling  for 
applications from  the citizens  of Sri  Lanka  who possess 
required  qualifications to be  recruited  to the  post of 
Registrar of the court  of appeal in the  Scheduled    Public  
Officers Service  and the  Judicial Service  Commission  has 
decided  to extend the  closing date  for applications in view 
of the present travel restrictions in force.
02. Accordingly paragraph 10 of the said notification is 
amended as follows.
01. Method of Applying :
(a) the application fee is Rs.500/-. the application 
form can be obtained by sending the receipt 
obtained by paying the relevant amount from any 
People’s Bank branch to the credit of the account 
of ‘Secretary, Judicial Service Commission’ 
No.297100199025039 of the People’s bank, 
Dam Street branch along with an envelope 9x4 
in size with the name and address of the applicant 
Werahera” on or before 18.07.2021. the post 
applied should be indicated on the top left hand 
corner of the envelope.
 (ix) General Sir john Kotelawala defence university 
reserves the right to shortlist prospective 
applicants.
 (x) incomplete, late applications and those which do 
not comply with the prescribed format will be 
rejected.
 (xi) application and other relevant details could be 
downloaded from the Kdu Website (www.kdu.
ac.lk).
www.kdu.ac.lk
 General kamal Gunarathne (Retd)
 WWv RWP RSP uSP ndc psc mphil
 Secretary,
 Ministry of defence.
06-348
written on it, by registered post to the judicial 
Service commission Secretariat or by personally 
handing it over. or else, a completed application 
form prepared in accordance with specimen in 
the notification can be sent by registered post, 
having affixed the receipt to the application.
(b) duly perfected application should be sent under 
registered post to reach the address “Secretary, 
judicial Service commission Secretariat, 
colombo 12” on or before 09th July 2021 or 
the applicants should hand over the applications 
by personally visiting the judicial Service 
commission Secretariat. 
03. Other facts mentioned in the notification remain 
unchanged.
 
By order of the judicial Service commission.
 H. S. Somarathne,
 Secretary,
 judicial Service commission.
judicial Service commission Secretariat,
colombo 12,
17th june 2021.
06–353

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1365
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
fOREIGN  mINISTR y
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service - 
2020(2021)
tHE Public Service commission has approved the 
following amendments to the "Part I : Section (IIA) 
Advertising" of the Gazette Notification of the Open 
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III 
of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service - 2020(2021)" published 
in the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka, No. 2223 of 09.04.2021 and No. 2229 of 21.05.2021.
aMENdMENt
the closing date for applications for the Sri Lanka 
foreign Service recruitment examination mentioned in 
the above notification is extended by the Public Service 
commission to 15.07.2021, due to the travel restrictions 
currently in place to control the covid -19 epidemic. 
Further, the maximum age limit specified in Section 
04 of the notification No. 2223 of 09.04.2021 shall remain 
the same as at the previous closing date for applications 
(i.e. 10.05.2021) given in the original Gazette notification. 
 admiral Prof. Jayanath Colombage,
 Secretary,
 foreign Ministry.
foreign Ministry,
Republic Building, 
colombo 01.
11th june, 2021.
06–277
––––––––––––––––––––––
mINISTR y Of EDuCATION
Open Competitive Examination to Recruit 
Graduates  to Grade 3-1(a) of the Sri Lanka 
Teachers’ Service to Teach Foreign Languages  in 
National Schools Islandwide – 2021  
aPPLicatioNS  are hereby called to recruit graduates to 
Grade 3-1 (a) of the Sri Lanka teachers’ Service to teach 
foreign languages in National Schools islandwide. the 
respective application has been published under “online 
applications – institutional Exams” in “our Service” in the 
website www.doenets.lk of the department of Examinations 
and the applications can be submitted only via online. 
applicants should download the application submitted online 
and complete relevant parts of the application in his / her 
own handwriting in the printed copy attesting the signature 
of the applicant and forward the same under registered cover; 
along with the certification of the Head of the Department 
if applicable, in order to reach the “commissioner General 
of Examinations, institutional Examinations organization 
Branch, department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, P. o. 
Box 1503, colombo”.  furthermore, “open competitive 
Examination to Recruit Graduates to Grade 3-1(a) of the 
Sri Lanka teachers’ Service to teach foreign Languages 
in National Schools islandwide – 2021” should be clearly 
stated on top left-hand corner of the envelope. the closing 
date of applications will be 13.08.2021.
Note :  Sending the printed copy of the application via 
post is compulsory and any complaint made in 
relation to a loss or delaying of an application 
in post will not be entertained. the applicant 
himself should bear the risk of delaying 
applications till the closing date.
02. method of Recruitment : 
2.1 Recruitments will be made according to the 
number of existing vacancies upon a school-
based system while the applicants, who have 
scored a minimum of 40% for each paper 
in a written examination conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations will 
be directed to a general interview in the order 
of their total mark. candidates, who have not 
fulfilled the qualifications required by this 
Gazette Notification, will be rejected at the 
interview.  
2.2 candidates, who qualify from the general 
interview will be subjected to a practical 
test in terms of Section 12.3 of this Gazette 
Notification to evaluate skills on teaching and 
teaching methods required for the profession 
and school-based recruitments will be made 
according to the number of vacancies and in the 
order of the total marks scored in the written 
and practical tests.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1366
2.3 List of vacancies will be exhibited at the interview. accordingly, the candidates will have to indicate their 
preference in being appointed to vacant schools at the interview.
Note : When several candidates, who have applied for the same school have scored similar marks, eligible 
applicants will be selected according to prescribed marking criteria approved by the Secretary to the 
Ministry of Education.  
2.4    Since these appointments will be school-based, no candidate will be allowed transfers till the completion of 05 
years.
2.5  List of Vacancies :
Province No. of Language 
Laboratories
No. of Vacancies and New entrants 
French Japanese Chinese Korean Hindi German
Western 134 11 10 30 15 05 10
central 155 10 10 25 15 05 15
Southern 110 10 10 40 20 05 15
Northern 91 05 07 18 18 05 10
Eastern 104 10 10 25 20 05 15
North Western 127 10 10 25 25 05 10
North central 83 10 10 20 25 05 15
uva 88 10 10 20 20 05 10
Sabaragamuwa 113 10 10 20 20 05 10
total 1005 86 87 223 178 45 110
03. Employment Conditions  :
 (i) This post is permanent. You will be subjected to future policy decisions taken by the government regarding 
your pension scheme. 
 (ii) The appointees to this post will be subjected to a probation period of three (03) years and they should pass the 
first Efficiency Bar Examination within the aforesaid period of three (03) years.
 (iii) You should obtain proficiency in official language in terms of the Public Administration Circulars 18/2020 and 
its incidental circulars.  
 (iv) This appointment will be subjected to the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, Establishment 
code of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, financial Regulations of the Government and other 
departmental rules.
 (v) This appointment will be subjected to the provisions of the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Teachers Service 
published the Gazette Extraordinary No 1885/38 of 23.10.2014 and its future amendments as well as to the 
general conditions of public service appointments. 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1367
04. Salary Scale:
in terms of the Public administration circular               
No. 03/2016, this post will be entitled to a salary 
scale G-E-01-2016 of Rs. 27,740-300x6-380x7-
445x2-Rs. 33,090/- (monthly). the appointees will 
be placed on the 14
th salary step of this scale in              
Rs. 32,200/- Salaries will be paid in accordance 
with the provisions in Schedule ii of this circular. 
in addition, you will be entitled to other allowances 
granted to public officers by the government from 
time to time. 
05. Educational Qualifications:
5.1 in terms of the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka 
teachers’ Service and the cabinet decision 
No. cP/19/1412/127/011-i of 19.07.2019, you 
should have fulfilled following qualifications as 
at 13.08.2021. 
(i) completed the degree in a local/ foreign 
university recognized by the university 
Grants commission and having 
followed the respective subject (Foreign 
Languages) as a subject in the degree or 
having obtained a special degree in the 
respective subject.  
Note.-   In addition to above qualifications, 
all applicants should have passed 
Sinhala or tamil Language 
as a subject in G. C. E. (O/L) 
Examination. applicants, who 
have passed other examinations 
recognized by the commissioner 
General of Examinations as 
equivalent to local G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination may also apply. 
06. Age Limit:
applicants should have completed 18 years and 
not exceeded 35 years of age by the closing date 
of applications. (accordingly, only the applicants, 
who have the date of birth on or before 13.08.2003 
and on or after 13.08.1986 will be eligible to apply.) 
07. Other Requirements:
 (i) applicants should be Sri Lankan citizens. 
 (ii) applicants should be of exemplary character. 
 (iii) Should have fulfilled all qualifications required 
for the post by the closing date of applications 
stated in this notification. 
 (iv)  Every applicant should be physically and 
mentally fit to serve in any part of the island. 
08. Method of Applying:
8.1 online application should be completed in 
English language only. When the soft copy 
submitted online as well as the printed copy 
forwarded under registered post receive the 
department of Examinations, the soft copy 
and the printout will be verified and the 
applicant will be informed of the acceptance 
/ non-acceptance of the application as a 
valid application through an SMS to the 
mobile number used to access the system 
or via an e-mail. Please download the 
common instructions prepared in relation to 
online applying and thoroughly follow the 
instructions when completing the application. 
any revision made in the application after 
obtaining the printout will not be considered 
as a valid revision. incomplete applications 
will be rejected without further notice.  
8.2   examination Procedure :
 (i) this examination will be held in Sinhala, 
tamil and English mediums and the venue 
of the examination will be determined 
depending on the number of applications 
received.  
 (ii) Each applicant should face all subjects of 
the examination in one medium and the 
said medium should be the same medium 
of the appointment.
 (iii) applicants will not be allowed to change 
the language medium stated in the 
application later. 
 (iv) Examination consists of (02) two question 
papers. Each applicant should face both 
(02) question papers and should obtain 
minimum 40% to each paper in order to 
pass the examination. 
 (v) the appointing authority will determine 
the number of recruitments. 
 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1368
8.3 an applicant may submit only one application. 
8.4 Signature of the applicant should be attested 
in the application as well as in the admission 
of the examination. Signature of an applicant 
applying through a public institution should 
be attested by the Head of the institution or an 
authorized officer while the signature of any 
other applicant should be attested by a Principal 
of a government school/ retired officer, Grama 
Niladhari of the division, justice of Peace / 
commissioner for oaths/ attorney-at-Law, 
Public Notary, Commissioned Officer of Tri-
Forces or a permanent Staff Grade Officer in 
public or provincial public service or the chief 
incumbent of a Buddhist religious institution / 
a reverend or a priest of any other religious 
institution. 
8.5  on the presumption that only eligible persons 
will apply, the applicants, who have fulfilled 
the age limit stated in the Gazette notification 
and have paid the prescribed examination 
fee and have properly submitted the online 
applications and forwarded the printed copy 
along with the respective receipt on or before 
the closing date of applications, will be issued 
admissions by the commissioner General of 
Examinations. department of Examinations 
will publish a newspaper advertisement when 
admissions have been issued. any applicant, 
who has not received the admission within 02 
or 03 days of the notice, should inquire from 
the institutional Examination division of the 
department of Examinations. When inquiring 
the applicant should accurately mention the 
title of the examination applied, full name 
of the applicant, Nic No. and the address. if 
the applicant resides out of colombo, should 
fax a letter of request to 011-2784232 along 
with the aforesaid details and a fax Number 
to immediately receive the admission. 
Keeping in hand a copy of the application 
and the registered post receipt of posting the 
printed application would be beneficial for the 
applicant in confirming such detail. 
09.  Facing the Examination  :
  
9.1  all applicants, who have accurately submitted  
applications will be issued admissions by 
the commissioner General of Examinations. 
applicants should face the examination 
upon submission of their attested admission 
to the Supervisor of the examination center. 
applicants fail to do so will not be allowed to 
face the examination. 
   
9.2   Each applicant should sit for the examination 
in the examination hall assigned for them. 
Every applicant should hand over the attested 
admission of the prescribed examination hall 
to its Supervisor on the first day facing the 
examination.  All candidates will be subjected 
to the rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations in 
relation to conducting and issuing results of the 
examination. any candidate, who violates such 
rules, may be subjected to any punishment 
imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations. 
Note - issuance of an admission to a candidate 
will not be considered as a fulfillment 
of qualifications for him or her to face 
the examination or to be appointed to 
a post while passing the examination 
will not be considered as an eligibility 
to receive the appointment.
10. Identity of the Candidates  :
 (i) All candidates should confirm their identity so 
as to satisfy the Supervisor of the examination 
hall at each subject they face. One of following 
documents will be accepted for the purpose.
 (i) National identity card 
 (ii) Valid passport 
 (iii) Valid Sri Lankan driving license 
  furthermore, the candidates should enter the 
examination hall without covering the face and 
the ears enabling the Supervisors to confirm 
their identity and any candidate, who rejects 
to confirm their identity will not be allowed 
to enter the examination hall.  furthermore, 
the candidates should remain the face and ears 
uncovered throughout the examination for the 
invigilators to recognize their identity.     

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1369
 11. Punishments for providing False Information: 
applicants should be cautious to furnish accurate 
information in the application. according to the rules 
and regulations of this examination, if any applicant 
is revealed to be not eligible his/her candidacy may 
be cancelled at any instance before, during or after 
the examination.  
12. Syllabus 
12.1 Written examination :
 t wo question papers are prescribed for 
this examination and all applicants should 
mandatorily face both papers. 
 (i)  aptitude – time 01 hour (100 marks)
  it is expected to measure the analytical 
skill, logical understanding, ability of 
interpretation, ability of applying to 
other situations, skill of quantification, 
understanding the relationship between 
time and space of the applicant in 
relation to the problems presented in 
a numerical,  textual and figurative 
context and in pertaining to the 
interrelations.  this will consist of 50 
McQ and short answer questions. all 
questions should be answered.  
 (ii) General Knowledge   -  time 01 hour 
(100 marks)
  this question paper consists of 50 
McQs and Short answer Questions 
which aim at testing the general 
knowledge of the applicant in the field 
of teaching and / or general knowledge 
on local trends that have taken place 
and that are currently taking place 
in education sector and general 
knowledge on the modifications 
occurred after 2010 in relation to the 
education, higher education, technical 
teacher education.  all the questions 
should be answered.
12.2 General Interview :
 Marks will not be allocated for the general 
interview. 
 Note – Objectives expected to be Achieved -
 Checking whether the qualifications 
stated in the Service Minute and 
in this notification or newspaper 
advertisement publicized in accordance 
therewith and evaluating physical 
qualifications. 
12.3 Practical Test  :
 as the practical test the candidate should 
make a presentation on a recognized topic. 
a duration not less than 05 minutes will be 
given for the presentation and the marks 
allocated will be as follows. 
Serial
 No.
Marking criteria for 
the Practical Test 
Maximum 
Mark 
Minimum 
Mark
of Passing 
01 Objective and the 
approach 
05 02
02 Personality and voice 
control 
05 02
03 clarity in 
communication 
05 02
04 time management 05 02
05 Presentation methods 05 02
total Marks 25 10
Note – Objectives expected to be Achieved –
 Evaluating the skills of the candidate relating 
to teaching learning process, which requires in 
the teaching profession.  
12.3.1 Methodology of the Practical Test :
 (i) Duration under five (05) minutes 
will be given for the practical 
test. 
 (ii) Maximum marks for the practical 
test will be twenty-five (25).  
 (iii) Minimum 02 marks should be 
obtained for each criterion in 
order to pass the practical test. 
 (iv) the evaluation of the practical 
test will be conducted by a panel 
appointed by the Secretary to the 
Ministry of Education. 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1370
12.3.2 Objectives of criteria :
 (i) Objective and the approach 
Evaluation of the ability to 
clearly explain the objective 
of the lesson and approach the 
lesson. 
 (ii) Personality and voice control 
Perfect personality as a teacher 
and the ability to control voice in 
teaching. 
 (iii) clarity in communication 
  ability to communicate 
effectively in teaching learning 
process. 
13. Examination fee  :
13.1   Examination fee is Rs.600. only the following 
payment methods allowed by the online system 
should be used to pay examination fees. 
 i. any Bank credit card
 ii. any Bank debit card activated with 
online payment facilities
 iii. Bank of ceylon online Banking 
Method
 iV . teller Slip Payment from any Bank 
of ceylon Branch
 V.  Payment at any Post Office of the 
department of Post
Note.–instructions in relation to above payment 
methods are published in the website 
under technical instructions for the 
examination. 
13.2  Receipt of payment will be acknowledged 
through an SMS or an e-mail. the total amount 
of the examina tion fee should be paid while 
applications with less or over payments will 
be rejected. The Department of Examinations 
will not be responsible for any fault occurred 
in paying examination fees through above 
payment methods. 
13.3  Examination fees paid will not be returned or 
exchanged for any other examination at any 
cost.  
14. Examination Results :
14.1   commissioner General of Examinations 
will forward the results sheet prepared in 
the order of the total marks of the written 
examination to the Secretary of the Ministry 
of Education and the commissioner General 
of Examinations will take measures to 
personally inform the results to all applicants 
or to publish results in www.results.exams.
gov.lk.  
15. Instructions on completing applications  : 
the online application is prepared using the following 
Schedule 01.
Schedule 01
Foreign Language Code
french 1
japanese 2
chinese 3
Korean 4
Hindi 5
German 6
16. Officers currently engaged in public service should 
mandatorily submit applications attested by the Head of the 
department under heading of 14 of the application. 
17. candidates, who fail to attend the interview on the 
prescribed date will never be considered again. 
18. All certificates should be submitted at the interview 
while no certificate submitted later will be accepted. 
19. the Secretary to the Ministry of Education will 
reserve the right of determining any matter not covered 
from this notice as well as the right of final and conclusive 
decision relating to filling or not filling a part of or entire 
vacancies. 
20. in the event of any inconsistancy among Sinhala, 
Tamil and English texts of this notification, the Sinhala text 
shall prevail. 
 Prof. K. Kapila C. K. Perera ,
 Secretary, 
Ministry of Education, isurupaya,    
Pelawatta, 
Battaramulla.
23rd april, 2021.
06–278
                  

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1371
amendment
PubLIC  SERvICE COmmISSION
State Ministry of National Security and Disaster Management
REGiStRaR   GENERaL ’S  dEPaRtMENt
For the post of Registrar Service Class I of Grade III of Executive Service Category Recruitment under 
Limited Stream- 2015(2020)
iN pursuant to the order of the Public Service commission, applications are hereby called from eligible candidates in 
Registrar Service class ii of this department as at 26.05.2015 for the post of Registrar Service class i Grade iii in the 
Registrar General’s Department, to fill 13 existing vacancies, on the basis of Limited Competitive Examination. Duly filled 
applications in accordance with the Specimen application form attached hereof should only be forward by registered post to 
Registrar General, Registrar General’s department, No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha, Battaramulla to reach on 
or before the date stated hereunder. the words “Recruitment under Limited Stream- 2015(2020) for the post of Registrar 
Service Class I of Grade III” should clearly notified top left hand corner of the envelope containing the application. Further, 
the name stated in the caption should be written in English in addition to Sinhala in Sinhala Applications and specified in 
English in addition to tamil in tamil applications.
closing date for applications: 19.07 2021
Note: Hand delivered applications shall be entertained under no circumstances and no complaints made with regard 
to lose of applications, letters on postal delay shall be considered. applicants are liable to bear the losses, damages caused 
by delaying application until the closing date.
01. Method of recruitment to service
 upon the results of the written competitive examination conducted by commissioner General of Examinations, 
candidates who score highest of the examination will be recruited in descending order of marks obtained, 
amongst the candidate who score 40% or above for each question paper. Qualifications of the applicants will be 
scrutinized by interview board approved by the Public Service commission. No marks will be granted for the 
interview. Number of appointments and effective date for the appointment will be determined by the order of 
the Public Service commission.
02. Conditions of Service
 i. this post is permanent and pensionable. Selected candidates shall contribute to the Widows’ and orphans’ 
Pension scheme and Widowers’ and orphans’ pension scheme.
 II. Recruited officers shall be subject to an acting period of One (01) year.
 III. As per the Public Circular 1/2014, the recruited officer shall obtain prescribed language proficiency before 
expiry of five years of service in the post.
 IV . This post shall be subject to procedural regulations and conditions set out in the recruitment procedure of 
the Public Service commission.
 V . First Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed before expiry of Three (03) years after appointment to 
the post of Registrar Service class i Grade iii
 VI. Your medium qualified for the appointment shall be the medium that is stated in the application
03. Salary Scale
 this post shall be entitled for a monthly salary scale of Rs. 47,615-10x1,335-8x1,630-110,895 (SL- 1-2016) as 
per the Schedule i of the Public administrative circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1372
04. Qualifications
 Experience: been confirmed in the Registrar Service Class II in the Registrar General’s Department
 : completion of three (03) years of satisfactory service in Registrar Service class ii 
 : completion of five (05) years of satisfactory service prior to the date of calling for application
age Limits : Nor relevant
05. Physical Fitness
 Every applicant should possess sound physically fitness to serve any part of the sri Lanka and to accomplish 
duties of the post.
06. Other qualifications :
 i. applicant should possess an outstanding character
 ii. applicant should have completed five (05) years of satisfactory service prior to the date of promotion in 
the service.
 iii. Should have fulfilled all required qualifications for the recruitment prior to 26.05.2015
07. Written examination
 i. this Examination will be conducted by commissioner general of Examinations
 ii. Examination will be conducted in all three (03) languages
 iii. Medium applied for the examination will not be then changed
 iv. Written test will be comprised with following question papers 
Question Paper Time Total Marks Pass Marks
Registration of documents and title Registration 3.00 hrs 100 40
Registration of Marriages, Births and deaths 3.00 hrs 100 40
 v. Syllabus 
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
Registration of documents and title 
Registration
a. order imposed by the Registrar General with regard to 
Registration of documents and title Registration
B. circulars and directions issued from time to time by 
the Registrar General with regard to Registration of 
documents and title Registration
Registration of Marriages, Births and 
deaths
a. order imposed by the Registrar General with regard to 
Registration of Marriages, Births and deaths
B. circulars and directions issued from time to time by 
the Registrar General with regard to Registration of 
Marriages, Births and deaths
08. Method of Application 
 I. Application must be prepared in 22-29cm size A-4 paper so as to appear captions from 01 to 06 on the first 
page and the rest of the caption in 2nd and 3rd pages using either side of the paper and relevant details 
should be clearly enter by your own hand writing. application that are not compliance with the specimen 
applications forms and the incomplete applications will be rejected without any notice. It is useful to retain 
a photocopy of the relevant application.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1373
 ii. Signature of the applicant should be attested by a Senior deputy Registrar General or deputy Registrar 
General.
09. examination Fees
 i. Examination fees is Rs. 2,000/=
 ii. Receipt for deposit of examination fees in favor of the Registrar General account No. 7041650 at any 
branch of Bank of Ceylon Island wide prior to the closing date of application should be affixed in the 
prescribed cage. Examination fees will not be refunded. it will be useful to retain a photocopy of the receipt 
with you.
N.B: (Remarks)  
A. It is required to place the date frank on the date of receipt of the application duly filled and forward by 
the officers and to obtain the attestation of the Head of the Department affirming the accuracy of the 
particular stated in the application, on or before the closing date. it is the responsibility of the applicant 
to forward the application prior to the due date enabling to accomplish the above.
B. Admission for the examination will be forward to official address under the name of the officer.
c. Public Service commission shall reserve rights not to grant the appointment under circumstances 
where any candidate shall be found unqualified for the appointment under regulations and provisions 
that in force at the time of appointment of as a consequence of unfavorable conduct at service.
D. Public Service Commission shall determine to fill a certain number of vacancies or not to fill existing 
vacancies and any other aspects that are not stated in this regulations.
10.  This post shall be subject to procedural regulations of the Public Service Commission, circulars issued from 
time to time with regard to public service and conditions and amendments made to approved recruitment 
procedure for the recruitment for executive grade in the Registrar General’s department.
11. In case of any discrepancy or incompliance shall be found in this notification that is published in Sinhala, Tamil 
and English media, under such circumstances, actions shall be taken as per the notification published in Sinhala 
Medium.
By order of the Public Service commission,
 Secretary,
 State Ministry of National Security and disaster Management.
21st May, 2021.
 
Competitive Examination to recruit for post of Registrar Service Class I of Grade III of Executive Service Category 
under Limited Stream- 2015(2020)
Language Medium of 
Examination
(Specify in the relevant cage : Sinhala -1 Tamil - 2 English-3) (for official use only)
1.0 1.1 Name with initial : ...................................................................................................................................................
  (in English BLocK caPitaLS)
  Ex: GuNaWaRdaNa, M.G.B.S.K
 1.2 Name with initial : ...................................................................................................................................................
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
 1.3 Names denoted by initials : ......................................................................................................................................
  (in English BLocK caPitaLS)
 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1374
 1.4 Names denoted by initials : .......................................................................................................................................
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
2.0  Service Station and address :
 2.1  Name and Address of the office/department/institute (in English BLOCK CAPITALS) : .....................................
 2.2  Name and Address of the office/department/institute (In Sinhala/Tamil) : .............................................................
 2.3  address to that the admission should be posted (in English BLocK caPitaLS) : ..............................................
3.0  Gender
  female -1  
     Write the relevant number
  Male - 2
4.0 date of Birth y ear  Month  date 
 
5.0 age as at closing date of application years    Months   dates 
6.0 04. National identity card No. :  
7.0 (a) (i) Date of the first appointment to the public service …………………………
  (ii) Service appointed to …………………………
  (iii) Number of the appointment Letter …………………………
  (iv) date …………………………
 (b) (i) Date of the first appointment to Registrar service II …………………………
  (ii) Number of the appointment Letter …………………………
  (iii) date …………………………
  (iv)  Date of confirmation of service in Registrar Service II …………………………
 (c)  details of disciplinary actions during the period service
Disciplinary Order Time period of the occurrence of offence 
as per charge sheet
No. and date of theDisciplinary 
Order
 (d)  Active and satisfactory period of service of qualification in Registrar Service II that should be completed as at 
26.05.2015 as per the conditions set out in para 06 of the circular.: ……………………
8.0 Affix the Cash Receipt, firmly
 i. Name and branch of the bank to which money was paid ………………………………………………………………
9.0  Declaration of the candidate:- I declare that I have earned all salary increments during the period of last five years prior 
to 26.05.2015, i have performed an active and satisfactory Service period as per the conditions set out in chapter 06 
of the circular and further I have not subjected to any disciplinary action except from warning during the period of my 
service. Further, I do declare that I shall be subject to all orders imposed by the Public Service Commission with regard 
to issuance of examination results.
  ——————,
  Signature.
date :—————.
Note : the applicant shall place the signature before a Senior deputy Registrar General or deputy Registrar General.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1375
Attestation of Applicants' Signature :
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs/Miss ………………………………… (full name), an officer in Registrar service 
class ii in the Registrar General's department, placed his/her signature before me.
  ——————,
  Signature of attester official frank.
date  :—————.
Name  :—————.
title  :—————.
address  :—————.
Attestation by the head of the Department
i do hereby certify that Miss/Mrs. Mr ..........................................................................has been serving in the class 
ii in the Registrar General’s department, particulars furnished hereof are true and accurate, she/he has earned all of the 
salary increments during the last five years prior to 12.05.2015 (except for the salary increment which is a condition of 
passing the service or departmental examination), she/he performed an active and satisfactory period of service as per the 
chapter 06 of the circular, she/he had not been subjected to any disciplinary action for any offense (except warnings) during 
the entire period of service and as per the conditions set out in the circular, she/he is eligible to appear for the interview.
  ——————,
  Signature of the Head of the department.
date  :—————.
Name  :—————.
title  :—————.
address  :—————.
(Affix the official frank)
06-281
–––––––––––––––––––––
mINISTR y Of hEALTh
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of Public Health Management 
Assistants’ Service – 2021
 
01.0  it is hereby notified that the Limited Competitive Examination for recruitment to Grade III of Public Health Management 
assistants’ Service will be held by the commissioner General of Examinations in the month of September 2021.
02.0. This examination will be held in the following towns for the officers serving in the Ministry of Health, State 
Ministry Pharmaceutical Production, Supply and Regulation, State Ministry of Primary Health care, Epidemic and coVid 
disease control, State Ministry of Promotion of indigenous Medicine, development of Rural ayurvedic Hospitals and 
community Health and hospitals and institutions thereunder and, are receiving salaries under the PL salary codes of the 
Primary Level and salary codes of MN-01-2016 as per the Public administration circular 03/2016, and who have been 
confirmed in the said appointments. The list of towns and respective town numbers are given below. The Commissioner 
General of Examinations at his discretion, may cancel any of the examination centers owing to the insufficient number of 
candidates or another reason and decide an alternative center taking the candidates’ second preference into consideration.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1376
Town Town  Number Town Town  Number
1. colombo 01 14. Kilinochchi 14
2. Gampaha 02 15. Batticaloa 15
3. Kalutara 03 16. ampara 16
4. Kandy 04 17. trincomalee 17
5. Matale 05 18. Kurunegala 18
6. NuwaraEliya 06 19. Puttalam 19
7. Galle 07 20. anuradhapura 20
8. Matara 08 21. Polonnaruwa 21
9. Hambantota 09 22. Badulla 22
10. Jaffna 10 23. Monaragala 23
11. Mannar 11 24. Ratnapura 24
12. Vavuniya 12 25. Kegalle 25
13. Mulativu 13
03.0 the candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations prescribed by the commissioner General of Examinations 
for conducting the examination and issuance of results. He / She is liable to any punishment imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations for breach of these rules.
04.0 Number of appointments and the effective date of appointments shall be determined by the Secretary, Ministry of 
Health. The Secretary reserves the right to refrain from filling some or all vacancies.
05.0 Medium in which candidates should sit for the Examination: this examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil & 
English languages. candidates may sit this examination in only one language medium of their preference. candidates will 
not be allowed to change the language medium subsequently.
06.0 Salary: Monthly Salary Scale applicable for the Grade iii, ii and i of the Public Health Management assistants’ 
Service, as per the Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016:  Rs.28,940 -10x300 -11x350 -10x560 
-10x660 - Rs.47,990 and the said salary is entitled to you from 01.01.2020. Salary will be paid from the effective date of the 
appointment as per the provisions of Schedule II of said circular. Officers should obtain promotion to Grade II and Grade I 
to go beyond the salary point of Rs.31,940 and Rs.35,790 respectively. in addition, you are entitled to other allowances paid 
to the public officers by the Government from time to time.
     Note: Appointees will be granted incremental credit subject to the incremental credit rules prevailing at the time 
of receiving appointment.
 07.0 Conditions of Service :
 (i) Number of appointments and the effective date of appointments shall be determined by the Appointing 
Authority. The Appointing Authority reserves the right to refrain from filling of some or all vacancies.
 (ii) Selected candidates shall be appointed to a post in Grade III, subject to general conditions governing the 
appointments in the Public Service, terms and conditions set out by the Public Health Management assistants’ 
Service Minute published in the Gazette Extraordinary of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka                          
No. 2053/18 dated 09.01.2018, amendments which will be made thereto in due course to the said Service 
Minute, provisions of the Establishments code and financial Regulations and Procedural Rules of the Public 
Service commission published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009. 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1377
 (iii) candidates who are successful in this 
examination will be appointed on an acting 
basis for one year from the date of the 
appointment. their posts will be permanent 
and pensionable. First Efficiency Bar 
Examination shall be passed within 03 years 
from the date of recruitment to Grade iii 
of Public Health Management assistants’ 
Service, as mentioned in the service minute.
 (iv) candidates who receive appointments on the 
results of the examination will be liable to 
posted to any station in Sri Lanka and they 
would not be given the present work station, 
for whatever the reason.
 (v) The officer shall compulsorily serve at least 
03 years at the service station to which he/ 
she is appointed at first from the date of 
appointment. However, the appointing 
authority reserves the right to transfer any 
officer before the lapse of said period, on 
special reasons as determined by him, if it is 
required to make such transfer.
 (vi) Official Language.- Officers who have been 
appointed to service in a language other than 
any official language shall acquire proficiency 
in one of the official languages before 
confirmation in the service.
  Other Official Language.- Proficiency in the 
Second Official Language should be achieved 
before lapse of 03 years from the date of 
appointment in terms of the provisions of 
Public administration circular 18/2020 and 
circulars incidental thereto.
 (vii) The general hours of work of the officers in 
the Public Health Management assistants’ 
Service are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m. in 
all days of the year. However the above time 
may vary on the service exigency and nature 
of the duty. it is compulsory to be on night 
duty and the officers may be ordered to do 
additional work. and also, the Public Health 
Management Assistants are subject to be on 
duty on 365 days of the year.
 (viii) Officers discharging the duties required by 
the Secretary of the Ministry of Health shall 
finish a security of Rs.5000/= 
 (ix)  On service exigency officers serving in Health 
institutions and Hospitals may be called upon 
to work on Saturdays and Public Holidays.  
they are eligible to overtime or holidays pay 
or leave in lieu for each such day.
Note .-The officers in the Provincial Public 
Service are not allowed to sit for this 
examination.
08.0 Method of Recruitment :
8.1  Educational Qualifications : 
 Shall have passed G.c.E. (ordinary Level) 
Examination in 06 subjects including Sinhala 
/ tamil /  English Language and Mathematics 
with credit passes for two subjects at not 
more than two sittings.  
8.2  Professional Qualifications: Not applicable
8.3.  experience : 
 Shall have completed an active and 
satisfactory service period of 05 years at 
least in a permanent post as at the closing 
date of applications and should not have been 
punished in accordance with the provisions 
of Public Service commission circular 
01/2020. That should be confirmed by the 
Head of the department. 
 (a training period covered by a candidate 
prior to the appointment to a certain post on 
permanent basis or a training period which 
shall have to be completed as a condition for 
appointment to a certain post on permanent 
basis shall not be considered for the 05 years 
period for satisfying above qualifications. 
further the period of service under casual / 
temporary basis completed by a candidate 
before his appointment to a certain post on 
a permanent basis shall not be considered 
for the 05 year period for satisfying above 
qualifications.)
8.4  Physical Fitness : 
 all the candidates shall have the physical 
and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri 
Lanka and   to perform the duties of the post.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1378
8.5 Other : 
 (i) Shall be officers serving in the Ministry 
of Health, State Ministry Pharmaceutical 
Production, Supply and Regulation, 
State Ministry of Primary Health care, 
Epidemic and coVid disease control, 
State Ministry of Promotion of indigenous 
Medicine, development of Rural 
ayurvedic Hospitals and community 
and the Health institutions thereunder, 
who are holding permanent posts and 
confirmed in appointments and receiving 
salaries under the PL Salary codes of 
Primary Level and the officers who 
obtained salaries under Salary code MN-
01-2016 as per Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016.
 (ii) candidates should have an excellent 
character.
 (iii)  Should have satisfied all the qualifications 
required for recruitment to the post as at 
the closing date of applications. 
Note :
1. candidates should have completed a satisfactory 
service of 05 years preceding the closing date 
of applicati ons. Satisfactory service period is 
described by following facts :
 (i) Should have earned all the salary 
increments during the five years preceding 
the closing date of applications,
 (ii) Should not have been subjected to any 
disciplinary punishment during the period 
of 05 years preceding the closing date of 
applications.
2. the Head of department should agree to 
release the officer if he / she is selected for an 
appointment.
3. t emporary and casual employees serving 
in hospitals and other institutions under the 
Ministry of Health are not eligible to sit for this 
examination.
4. the candidates, before forwarding their 
applications, should satisfy themselves that they 
have fulfilled all the requirements prescribed 
herein. candidates who sit for the examination 
without fulfilling the requirements prescribed in 
this notification will be disqualified, even if they 
obtained the marks required.
 09.0 Applications :
 (i)  candidates should get their applica tions forms 
printed in 03 pages using a4 size (21cm x 
29cm) papers complying with the specimen 
form of application appended at the end of this 
notification in such a manner that No.1.0 to 4.0 
appear on the first page, No. 5.0 to 8.0 on the 
second page and other sections from 9.0 appear 
on the third page.  
 (ii)  Printed applications which are duly perfected 
by candidates should be submitted to Head 
of the institutions before 16.07.2021 and 
get them personally certified by Head of the 
institution that the information furnished by the 
applicant is true and correct. then applications 
should be sent by registered post to reach the 
commissioner General of Examinations, 
institutional Examinations organization 
Branch, department of Examinations, P.o. 
Box 1503, colombo on or before 30.07.2021. 
the top left corner of the envelope containing 
the application should bear the words “Limited 
Competitive Examination to Grade III of 
Public Health Management Assistants’ 
Service – 2021 ….… (Mention the district in 
which you intend to sit the examination)”. (it is 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the application 
form with the candidate)
 (iii)  When preparing the applications, the title of 
the examination should be written in English in 
addition to Sinhala on Sinhala applications and 
in addition to tamil on tamil applications.
 (iv)  the post and the service station of the candidate 
at the time of applying for the examination will 
be applied for all the action of the examination. 
any changes taken place after submitting 
application will not be taken into consideration. 

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1379
Note: appointments are issued to the selected 
candidates strictly according to the full name 
mentioned in the application and therefore the 
name should be correctly written. it shall not 
be allowed to change the name or include a 
part to the name or remove a part there of at 
the issuance of appointments.
10.0 Examination Fees: Examination fee of Rs.600/= 
should be paid at any Post office/Sub post office to be credited 
to Revenue Head 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner General 
of Examinations. the receipt obtained thus should be pasted 
in the application form. (it would be advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the receipt.) the fee is non-refundable and 
it shall not be paid back under any circumstances. Money 
orders or stamps are not accepted for examination fees.
11.0 if it is found at the interview that the applicant 
does not possess the required qualifications in terms of this 
circular, his / her candidature will be cancelled.
12.0 Sitting the examination :
 i.  the commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue admission cards to the candidates 
who have forwarded duly perfect applications 
along with the receipt of paying the prescribed 
examination fee on or before the closing date 
of applications, on the presumption that only 
those who possess the qualifications mentioned 
in the Gazette  notification have applied. As 
soon as the admission cards are issued to 
candidates, department of Examinations will 
publish a paper notice announcing the same. 
if the admission card is not received even 
after 2 or 3 days of such an advertisement 
it should be inquired from the institution 
Examination organization Branch, department 
of Examinations in the manner as mentioned in 
the notification. The applicant should correctly 
mentioned the name of the examination applied 
for, full name of applicant, National identity card 
number and address when making such inquiry. 
in case of applicants outside colombo, it would 
be advisable to make a request sending a letter 
of request stating the same to the fax number 
mentioned in the notification along with the fax 
number to which a copy of the admission card 
can be sent promptly. it would be useful to have 
the following documents in hand at the time of 
calling the department of Examinations, i.e. a 
photocopy of the application form, receipt of 
payment of examination fees (if applicable) 
and receipt of registration. 
 ii.  the signature of the applicant placed on the 
application and admission card should have 
been attested. Every applicant should get his 
/ her signature attested by the Head of the 
Institution or any officer authorized by him. 
the candidate would be allowed to sit for 
the examination only in the examination hall 
assigned to him/her at the in the examination 
center established at provincial level. and 
in such case, first of all the admission card 
attested should be presented to the supervisor 
of the Examination Hall. A candidate who 
does not present the admission card will not 
be permitted to sit for the examination.
13.0 candidates will be required to prove their identity 
for each subject in the examination hall to the satisfaction 
of the supervisor. for this purpose, any of the following 
documents will be accepted.
 (i)  the National identity card issued by the 
Department of Registration of Persons;
 (ii)  A Valid Passport;
 (iii)  a Valid driving License. 
candidates should enter the examination hall without 
covering their face and ears in order to prove their identity. 
further, any candidate who refuse to assist for proving his/
her identity will not be allowed to enter the examination 
hall. the candidate should remain in the examination hall 
from the time of entering up to the time of leaving the 
examination hall without covering face and ears enabling 
the invigilators to identify the candidate.  
14.0 Heads of departments should approve duty leave to 
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the 
commissioner General of Examinations enabling them to 
appear for the examination. traveling expenses are not paid.
15.0 Penalty  for Furnishing False Information : 
candidates should be careful to furnish correct information 
when filling the application form. As per the rules and 
regulations of the examination, the candidature of any 
applicant may be cancelled prior to, during or after the 
examination, if his/her ineligibility to sit for the examination 
is disclosed. if any of the particulars furnished by a candidate 
is found to be false at any stage he/she will be liable to 
dismissal from the Public Service.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1380
16.0 Scheme of examination :
 (i) The subjects of the examination and the marks assigned to each subject are given below:
Question Paper Duration Total 
Marks
Minimum marks required to 
pass the examination
(1) Language Proficiency and Eligibility 
test for Management assistants’ Service
2 ½ hours 100 40
(2) aptitude 1 hour 100 40
 (ii)  Marks shall be deducted in every question paper for illegible handwriting and spelling mistakes. candidates 
shall sit this examination only in one language as their preference. candidates are required to obtain an 
aggregate of at least 50% of the total marks of the examination. appointments shall strictly be made in the 
order of the merit and the number of vacancies.
17.0  Syllabus of the examination :
Name of the Question 
Paper
Syllabus
(1)Language Proficiency 
and Eligibility test for 
Management assistants’ 
Service
The question paper shall consist of subject related questions designed to test the 
candidate’s ability of expression, comprehension, spellings, language and essay, drafting 
a given letter, summarizing passages, expressing the idea of several given sentences 
in one sentence making graphs based on the given data, and use of simple grammar, 
questions designed to test the knowledge of the candidate on basic rules and regulation 
applied in taking action regarding the documents of an office and Management Assistants’ 
knowledge on duties such as action to be taken on a latter containing matters for which 
officer shall be attended to and further questions to test candidate’s knowledge on the 
items used in the office such as call-up diary, voucher, moving registers, attendance 
registers, day stamp, official stamp and mail bag and their use.
(2) aptitude This paper shall consist of subject related questions designed to test the candidates’ 
numerical skills, power of critical reasoning and general intelligence.
(These papers shall be designed to test the aptitude and ability of the candidates to perform his official duties.)
18.0 The issuing of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that he / she has satisfied the required 
qualifications to sit the examination.
19.0  any matter not provided for herein will be decided by the Secretary of the Ministry of Health. all candidates are 
bound to comply with the general examination rules published in this Gazette Notification.
20.0 In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English medium notifications, the Sinhala 
notification shall prevail.
 dr. S. H. Munasinghe, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Health.
Ministry of Health,
“Suwasiripaya”, No. 385,
Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha,
colombo 10,
12th of june, 2021.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1381
           (For office use only)
SPEciMEN  foRM  of aPPLicatioN
Ministry of Health
limited competitive examination for recruitment to grade iii of 
public health management assistants’ service - 2021
Language medium of Examination town the candidate intend to appear for the examination
Sinhala - 2                             
tamil    - 3 first Preference     
English - 4 Second Preference
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)           (indicate the relevant number in the cage) 
1.0 1.1  Name with initials :  ................................................................................................................................................
  (in English block capitals)
 1.2 Name in full:...........................................................................................................................................................
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
 1.3  address to which the admission card should be sent:  ............................................................................................
   (in English block capitals) 
 1.4 National identity card No. :
 1.5  Marital Status : ........................................................................................................................................................
 1.6 Nationality : ……………………………… ............................................................................................................
2.0 Place of Work and address:
 2.1  Name and Address of Office/Department/Institution: .............................................................................................
  (in English block capitals) 
3.0 3.1 Sex :         Male - 0  female - 1 
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 3.2 Mobile phone No :
 3.3 date of Birth :        year :                            Month :                       date :
 3.4  age as at 16.07.2021 :       years :                    Months :                     days :
4.0  Educational Qualifications
 4.1 Particulars of G. c. E. (o/L) Examination:
  (i) year of the Examination : ……………………………………..
  (ii) index Number of candidate : ……………………………………..
  (iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
 

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1382
5.0  Have you ever been convicted of any offence in a Court of Law ? (Indicate (P) in the relevant cage) (indicate particulars, 
if the answer is yes) 
 ……………………………………..             yes                       No
 ……………………………………..             
6.0   Service Particulars :
 6.1  Name of the institution in which you are serving at present :  ...............................................................................
 6.2  designation of present post : ...................................................................................................................................
 6.3 date of appointment to the present post: ................................................................................................................
 6.4 Whether the present post is permanent or temporary: ............................................................................................
 6.5 Whether confirmed in the present post:  .................................................................................................................
 6.6  The date on which you qualified for confirmation : ................................................................................................
 6.7 Reference No. and date of letter issued confirming you in the present post: ..........................................................
 6.8 Present basic salary:  ...............................................................................................................................................
 6.9 Salary Scale (Salary code as per Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016):- P.L. 1-2016, 
P.L.-2-2016, P.L.-3-2016, MN-01-2016 - (cross off irrelevant words) 
 6.10  Whether the present appointment is pensionable: ..................................................................................................
 6.11  Period of service in the present post as at 16.07.2021: ...........................................................................................
7.0  Particulars of the receipt obtained by paying the examination fee :
 i. Branch of the Bank to which the examination fee was paid:  .................................................................................
 ii. the date and number of the receipt:  ........................................................................................................................
 iii. amount paid:  ..........................................................................................................................................................
Affix the relevant receipt firmly here. 
      (it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidates.)
8.0 Candidate’s Certificate :
 (a)  i solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge. 
 (b)  I agree to suffer any loss that may cause as a result of incompleteness of sections and / or provision of erroneous 
information.
 (c)  I also state that all sections herein have been correctly filled. I am aware that if any particulars contained herein 
are found to be false I am liable to disqualification before appointment and to dismissal from service if the 
inaccuracy is detected after appointment. further,
 (d) i state that i am bound by the rules and regulations and decisions taken by the commissioner General of 
Examinations in relation to conduct of the examination. 
date:...........................  ...........................,
   Signature of applicant.
   (in the presence of the Head of department)
Note: The applicant should place his / her signature in the presence of his / her Head of Department or an officer authorized 
to sign on behalf of him.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2021
1383
9.0  attestation of applicant’s Signature : 
i certify that Mr./ Mrs./ Miss. ................................................ , employed at my place of work and who is personally 
known to me, placed his / her signature in my presence on .....................
date :...............              ..............................,
   Signature of the Officer attesting the Signature
attestor’s name in full: …………………………………………………………….
designation: ………………………………………………………………..
address: ……………………………………………………………..
(To be confirmed by Official Stamp)
 
10. Certificate of the Head of Department:
i do certify,
 10.1  that this candidate (Mr./ Mrs./ Miss.) ............................................................................ is an employee in this 
institution,
 10.2 that he / she is holding a permanent post,
 10.3 that he / she has been confirmed in a permanent post as at 16.07.2021,
 10.4 that he / she has been issued a letter confirming him / her in a permanent post,
 10.5 that he / she has completed at least 5 years of active and satisfactory service on or before 16.07.2021,
 10.6 that he / she is drawing a salary / or is on a scale of salary which is within the limits prescribed in para 8.0 of 
the said Gazette Notification,
 10.7 that his / her work and conduct during the 5 years immediately prior to 16.07.2021 have been satisfactory,
 10.8 that he / she could be released from his / her present post, if selected for an appointment on the results of this 
examination,
 10.9 that the application bears a receipt to the value of Rs. 600/=,
 10.10 that the particulars given in his / her application have been checked with the records available in the personal 
file in this departments and that he / she is eligible to sit this examination according to the regulations 
prescribed in the Gazette Notification relating to this examination.
                                                                                                    …………………………...,
Date: ………………………….. Signature of the Certifying Officer.
Name in full: ……………………………………………………………….
designation: …………………………………………………………….
address: …………………………………………………………….
(To be confirmed by Official Stamp)
Note: 
 (1) This certificate should be signed only by the Head of Department or by a Staff Officer duly authorized to sign on 
his behalf. The officer issuing the certificate should satisfy himself that the contents of the certificate are correct 
in all aspects.
 (2) the applications of candidates who do not satisfy all the requirements of eligibility should not be forwarded, if 
any.
06–346
PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG ,  SRi  LaNKa.