

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2240$37 - 2021 wf.daia;= ui 14 jeks fikiqrdod - 2021'08'14
No. 2240/37 -  saturday,  august  14 ,  2021
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
1a- Pg 5529 - 520 (08/2021) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
L.d.B 24/51(iv)
THE MOTOR TRAFFIC ACT (CHAPTER 203)
rEguLatIONs made by the Minister of transport under section 237 of the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203) read with 
sections 5,19 and 20 of the aforesaid act.
Minister of transport.
Colombo,
13th, august, 2021.
rEguLatIONs
1. These regulations may be cited as the Motor Traffic (Motor Tricycle - Use of Appliances) Regulations                                     
No. 2 of 2021.
2. The appliances to be fitted to or mounted to a motor tricycle, shall not -
 (a) exceed the weight, dimensions or limitations of its prototype;
 (b) alter its shape, design or external appearance;
 (c) loose the purpose for which it was manufactured;
 (d)  loose its equilibrium;

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'08'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.08.2021
2a
 (e) spread out the seat space of the driver's seat or a passenger's seat;
 (f) block the view of the windscreen or of the side openings of the driver's compartment and a passenger's 
compartment;
 (g) block the view of the rear-view mirrors;
 (h) have a reflective exterior; and
 (i) have sharp-edged appliances on the exterior which shall cause an obstruction or danger to persons using 
the road or its vicinity.
3. When mounting lights on a motor tricycle -
 (a) there shall not be a change to the identity of the motor tricycle and loose the purpose for which it was 
manufactured;
 (b) the head lamps which shall comprise the head beams and dip beams and an indicator, shall be of white or 
yellow light. The lamps shall be fixed on the front of the vehicle and be kept lighted when the vehicle is on 
the move when the outside light is dim or when used during a procession. the said lamps shall be clearly 
visible to a distance of more than 300 meters from the front of the vehicle;
 (c) tail lights shall be a red light and the nature of such lights will be that it would light up when the engine is 
ignited. The lights shall be fixed on the rear of the vehicle and shall be clearly visible to a distance of more 
than 200 meters distance from the rear of the vehicle; and
 (d) any additional mounting of lights shall not interfere with the identity, the shape and dimension of a motor 
tricycle and shall not cause annoyance to persons using the road by day or night time.
4. Motor tricycle side mirrors shall be mounted in such a way that they can be easily bent backwards in the event 
of a collision.
5. a fence mounted immediately behind the driver's seat shall not have sharp edges which may cause injury in the 
event of a collision.
6. tyres, mud guard and the wheel cover of a motor tricycle shall not be mounted to protrude so as to cause or to 
be a likely cause of danger, obstruction or annoyance to persons using the road.
7. Prior approval of the Commissioner General shall be obtained to effect a change to the colour specified for 
the external appearance of a motor tricycle. In order to effect the change to the Certificate of Registration, an application 
forthwith shall be made to the Commissioner General.
8. In these regulations -
“motor tricycle” shall have the same meaning as in the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203); and
“appliances” includes lamps, lights, light covers, wheels, wheel covers, rims, tyres, mudguards, mudflaps, side 
mirrors, rear view mirrors, door visors, hood visors, wind deflectors, buffers, body kits, spoilers, seats, side 
curtains, weather covers, stickers.
08-439
PrINtEd at tHE dEPartMENt OF gOVErNMENt PrINtINg,  srI LaNKa.