

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2009
1521
1521
wxl 1"621 - 2009 iema;eïn¾ 25 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'09'25
No. 1,621 – FRIDAY , SEPTEMBER 25, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1524
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 1524
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 02nd October, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 18th
September, 2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.—  Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,620 of 18.09.2009 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2009
1522
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2009
1523
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2009
1524
Posts – Vacant
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
Vacancies in the Post of Police Constables/Woman Police Constables and Police Constables Driver
AS per the Government Gazette Notification  No. 1582 of 26.12.2008 in connection with the above recruitment the closing date of
applications is 30.09.2009 and applications has been extended 03 month till 31.12.2009.
Inspector General of Police.
09-1137
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY  OF  LAND  AND  LAND  DEVELOPMENT
Survey  Department
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE TRAINEE GRADE IN THE POST OF
PHOTOGRAMMETRIC TECHNICIANS OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified Sri Lankan citizens for the competitive examination to be held for recruitment to the Trainee
Grade in the following post of the Sri Lanka Technological Service in the Survey Department.
Post No. of Vacancies
Photogrammetric Technician - Trainee Grade 04
02. Nature of the Service .– Preparation of Maps using computer, with the support of Aerial Photographs.
03. Method of Recruitment.– On the results of a written examination to be held, the candidates who are qualified will be selected
in terms of the Public Administration Circular No. 15/90 and the relevant Circulars.
04. Procedure of Examination .– The examination consists of two question papers :
(i) Intelligence ;
(ii) T echnological Paper.
05. Syllabus :
(i) Intelligence : One hour (100 marks)
This paper consists of questions framed with the objective of testing the candidate's power rational thinking, power
of analysis and decision making.
(ii) Technological Paper : Two hours  - (100 marks)
* Mathematics :
Algebra (Inequalities, Variables, Series, Logarithm),
Trigonometry (Equations, Solving of Triangles),
Statistics (Mean, Mode, Standard deviation) Probability.
* Physics :
Light and Optics (Reflection and Refraction : Mirrors, Curved Surfaces, Prisms, Lenses, Formulas of Optics,
Microscope and Telescope),
Newtonian Mechanics (Scalars and Vectors, Newton's Law of Motion, Momentum).
* Miscellaneous Topics :
Introduction to Geography (Shape of the Earth, Topography etc.),
The angle view of solid substances and derivation of projections.
* Draughtsmanship.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2009
1525
06. Medium of Language.– The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums and the candidate is at liberty
to sit for the examination in any one of these languages. A candidate has to answer all the papers in one and the same language  at the
examination. Therefore, candidates will not be permitted to change the medium of language, selected in the application later.
07. Procedure of Selection :
* Candidate should secure 40% or more marks at the Open Competitive Examination so as to qualify from one paper.
* From amongst the successful candidates, those securing the highest aggregate marks in both papers at the examination
will be called for an interview according to the existing number of vacancies to check the qualifications. At the
interview, no marks will be given.
* If there are candidates scoring the same highest marks, among those who have secured the maximum aggregate marks
in both papers and who have fulfilled the requisite qualifications, then, the highest marks scored by them in paper
No. II will be taken into consideration.
* Selection will be made in the order of candidates securing the highest aggregate marks in both papers.
08. Terms of Employment .– This post is permanent and pensionable. Appointments will be made subject to probationary of
three years and the selected candidates shall be prepared to serve in the Head Office. General conditions applicable to appoint ments in
the Public Service, published at the beginning of this Gazette Notification  apply to this appointment.
09. Procedure of Application :–
(a) The application should be prepared by the applicant himself on a paper size 21x29cm (A4) using both sides as per
the specimen application form appearing at the end of this notice. From No. 01.0-05.0 should appear on the first
page, 06.0-12.1 appear on the second page, 12.2-15.0 appear on the third page and No. 16.0-18.0 appear on the forth
page.
(b) Completed applications should be sent by registered post to reach the Surveyor General, Survey Department,
No. 150, Kirula Road, Narahenpita, Colombo 05 on or before 26.10.2009. (Applications should not be sent to the
personal name or to any other address). On the top left corner of the envelop containing the application "An Open
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Trainee Grade in the Post of Photogrammetric Technicians of the Sri
Lanka Technological Service" to be clearly mentioned.
(c) Candidates who are already employed under the Public and Provincial Public Services should forward their applications
through the Heads of their Departments while the candidates employed under the Public Corporations and Local
Bodies, etc. should forward their applications through the Heads of their Institutions before the closing date of
application.
(d) Applicants should prepare their applications in the medium in which they are appearing for the examination.
(e) The applications which are incomplete and not in accordance with the specimen application and not having required
qualifications and also that are received after the closing date of application will be rejected without any notice.
(f) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. The complaints to the loss of applications in the post will not be
considered. The examination fee will not be refunded under any circumstances.
10. Educational Qualifications :–
(a) Should have passed G. C. E. (A/L) examination in three (3) Science subjects in one sitting including two subjects
relevant to the field and the G . C. E. (O/L) examination in six (06) subjects in not than two sittings with credit passes
for Language/Literature, Mathematics, Science and for another one subject ; or
(b) Should possess a National Certificate in Technology (a three year part time training course) relevant to the field,
awarded by a Technical College, recognized by the Government or have successfully completed the one year full time
training course in Draughtsmanship and obtained the relevant certificate, along with the basic educational qualifications
mentioned in above "(a)".
Note.– Among those who qualify for the Trainee Grade in the Technological Service at the Open Competitive
Examination, namely –
(i) The candidates with the qualifications mentioned in the above para. "a" will be placed at the initial salary step
within the salary scale of Class II'B' after successfully completing and passing the two year theoretical and
practical training, gained according to the syllabus framed relevant to the service.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2009
1526
(ii) The candidate with the qualifications mentioned in the above para. "b" will be placed at the initial salary step
within the salary of Class II'B' after successfully completing and passing the one year theoretical and practical
training, gained according to the syllabus framed relevant to the service.
11. Salary Scale :
Trainee Grade : 1st year - Monthly Rs. 12,920.00 In terms of the provision 09 of Para. 14 of the
2nd year - Monthly Rs. 13,040.00 P. A. Circular 06/200(II)
Class III : Monthly Rs. 15,005 - 4 x 180 - 6 x 240 - 11 x 320 - 20 x 360 - 27,885 [MN-3-2006A]
Class II : Monthly Rs. 15,005 - 4 x 180 - 6 x 240 - 11 x 320 - 20 x 360 - Rs. 27,885 (Starting from salary step
12) [MN-3-2006A]
Class I : Monthly Rs. 15,005 - 4 x 180 - 6 x 240 - 11 x 320 - 20 x 360 - Rs. 27,885 (Starting from salary step
23) [MN-3-2006A]
Special Class : Monthly Rs. 20,300 - 11 x 365 - 18 x 500 - Rs. 33,045 [MN-7-2006A].
12. Age Limit.– Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 45 years of age on the closing date of application. (The
maximum age limit will not apply to the candidates who are already in the Public Service and Provincial Public Service).
13. Examination Fee :
(a) Examination fee is Rs. 300. A candidate shall pay this amount to the District Office of Superintendent of Surveys in the
District where he/she resides or to any other District Office of Superintendent of Surveys. The receipt obtained for
paying the examination fee should be affixed to the specified place on the application. The applications submitted
without cash receipts will be rejected.
Locations of Supdt. of Surveys' Office to which the payments can be made  :
Colombo, Kalutara, Gampaha, Galle, Matara, Hambantota, Monaragala, Badulla, Ampara, Kandy, Matale, Nuwara
Eliya, Ratnapura, Kegalle, Anuradhapura, Polonnaruwa, Kurunegala, Puttalam, Jaffna, Vavuniya, Batticaloa, Trincomalee,
Diyatalawa (Institute of Surveying and Mapping).
14. Towns and their numbers where the examination will be held are as follows :
Towns/Districts Names Towns/Districts Nos.
Colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Kandy 04
Matale 05
Nuwara Eliya 06
Galle 07
Matara 08
Hambantota 09
Kurunegala 10
Puttalam 11
Anuradhapura 12
Polonnaruwa 13
Badulla 14
Moneragala 15
Ratnapura 16
Kegalle 17
Ampara 18
Batticaloa 19
Trincomalee 20
Jaffna 21
Vavuniya 22
 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2009
1527
However, in the event that there are examination centers without having sufficient number of candidates, in such instances, such
centers will be called off and the candidates in such centers will be assigned to the nearest examination centre. The examination will be held
by the Surveyor General and the date of the examination will be noticed later.
15. Admission to the Examination.– In accordance with the applications submitted to the Surveyor General, the admission cards
will be posted to the address given in the applications of all candidates who have compiled with the required basic qualificati ons. A
candidate appearing for the examination shall produce his/her admission card to the supervisor at the examination center. A can didate
without the admission card will not be permitted to sit the examination and also a candidate shall sit the examination only at the
examination hall assigned to him/her.
Note.– The issue of admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that he/she has the requisite qualifications to sit for
this examination or compiled with the requisite qualifications for this post.
16. Identity of the Candidate.– Candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of
the supervisor for each paper they appear. For this purpose any of the following documents will be accepted :
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(b) A Valid Postal Identity Card issued by the Post Master General.
(c) A Valid Passport. (Issued within the period of three years on the date of examination).
17. Attestation.– Candidate's identity should be attested by a Head of Government School, Justice of the Peace, Commissioner
of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, a Commissioned Officer of the Army or Air Force, a Police Officer holding a gazetted post in the Pol ice
Service, a permanent Government Officer in the Tertiary Level or Senior Level in terms of the grading of employees in the P. A. Circular
No. 06/2006.
18. Furnishing False Information .– The candidate is found unqualified to sit for this examination, his/her candidature is liable
to be cancelled prior to the examination, while holding the examination or subsequent to examination or at any time thereafter. Even after
the recruitment to the service, if a candidate is found to have furnished any false information purposely or a candidate has de liberately
concealed any important information, he/she shall be liable to dismissal from state service.
19. Every candidate must have fulfilled all the necessary qualifications required for the post prior to the closing date of
applications for the examination.
20. Candidates will be required to submit the following documents whenever requested :
(i) Certificate of Birth ;
(ii) Educational Certificates ;
(iii) A Grama Niladari Certificate obtaining recently ;
(iv) Two Character Certificates ;
(v) A copy of the Electoral Register (only if required).
N. B.– Documents or their copies should not be attached to the application.
21. Assignment to the respective posts will be made depending on the existing vacancies and according to the marks secured at
the examination.
22. Any matter not covered by these conditions will be determined at the discretion of the Surveyor General.
S. M. W. FERNANDO,
Surveyor General.
Survey Department,
Colombo 05,
08th September, 2009.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2009
1528
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE TRAINEE GRADE IN THE POST OF PHOTOGRAMMETRIC TECHNICIANS OF
THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE IN THE SURVEY DEPARTMENT
For official use only
(Indicate the Code/No. in the given cage).
(Please see the para. No. 14 of the instructions for town where the examination is held).
01. Name of the town you wish to apply for the examination :
Town No. : Name of the Town :
02. Name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss) :
(i) In Sinhala :–––––––––.
(ii) In English :–––––––––.
02.1 Name denoted by initials (in legible letters) :
(i) In Sinhala :–––––––––.
(ii) In English :–––––––––.
03. Permanent Address (in legible letters) :–––––––––.
03.1 Administrative District for which the address belongs to (Please see the para. No. 14 of the instructions) :–––––––––.
District No. : Name of the District :
04. Sex : (Male – M, Female - F)
05. Medium of language you wish to sit this examination :
(Sinhala - S, Tamil - T, English - E)
06. Ethnicity :
(Sinhala - 1, Sri Lankan Tamil - 2, Muslim - 3, Indian Tamil - 4, Burger - 5, Malay - 6, Other - 7)
07. Do you have eligibility under the para. No. 10 of the Gazette Noification ? :
Yes N o
08. Divisional Secretariat Division :–––––––––.
08.1 Grama Niladari Division :–––––––––.
08.2 The date from which you are residing in the District :–––––––––.
09. Citizenship :
By descent
By registration
10. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––.
11. Date of birth :
Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Date :–––––––––.
11.1 Age as at the closing date of the application :
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
12. Educational Qualifications :–––––––––.
12.1 The details of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
First Attempt :
(i) The year and month of the examination :–––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2009
1529
(iii) Subjects passed :–––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
15
26
37
48
12.2 The details of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Second Attempt :
(i) The year and month of the examination :–––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––.
(iii) Subjects passed :–––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
15
26
37
48
12.3 The details of G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
(i) The year and month of the examination :–––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––.
(iii) Subjects passed :–––––––––.
Subject Grade
1
2
3
4
13. Other Qualifications :–––––––––.
14. Have you ever been convicted in a court of law for a criminal offence ? :
Yes N o
14.1 If yes, furnish particulars :–––––––––.
15. District Survey Office to which the payment made :
Receipt No. :–––––––––.
Date of payment :–––––––––.
(The receipt has been affixed to page No. 04)
16. Certificate of the candidate :
(a) I declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
(b) I am also aware that if any information given by me herein is found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification if
detected before selection and to dismissal from service, if detected after appointment.
(c) I agree to abide by the rules and regulations of this examination.
(d) The cash receipt obtained for the payment of Rs. 300 as an examination fee has been pasted into the specified place below.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2009
1530
17. Attestation of the Candidate's Signature :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ...................... who is submitting the application is personally known to me and that his/he r signature
in my presence on ..................
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Attestor.
Date :–––––––––;
Name of the Attestor :–––––––––;
Designation :–––––––––;
Address :–––––––––.
18. Recommendation of the Head of the Department :
This officer can be/cannot be released from the service, if selected for this post.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department.
Date :–––––––––.
(Affix cash receipt firmly here)
09–1029
––––––––––––––––––
Correction
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Admission to National Colleges of Education to follow a Pre-Service
Professional Course in Teacher Education – 2010
NOTICE published in Gazette No. 1619 of 11.09.2009 is amended to be read as “the closing date of Application is 02.10.2009” instead
of “the closing date of Application is 25.09.2009”.
M. M. N. D. B ANDARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
“Isurupaya”, Battaramulla,
11th September, 2009.
09–1142
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry of Finance and Planning Department  of
Valuation
POST OF DISTRICT VALUER CLASS II GRADE II IN SRI
LANKA VALUATION SERVICE
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Post of District Valuer Class
II Grade II in Sri Lanka Valuation Service in the Department of
Valuation. Applications prepared as per specimen form published
below should be sent to reach the Secretary, Ministry of Finance
and Planning, The Secretariat, Colombo – 01, on or before
12.10.2009. Left–hand top of the envelope should be marked as
“Application for Post of District Valuer Class II Grade II”. Only
the applicants who have completed basic qualifications according
to this notice will be called for the written examination.
Note:-
(i) Applications which are not in the form appended below
will be rejected.
(ii) No allegation that an application form has been lost or
delayed in the post can be considered. Candidates who
delay their applications until the last few days will do so
at their own risk.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2009
1531
02. Terms of Engagement and Conditions of Service:
(i) The posts are permanent  and pensionable. Contributions
should be made to the “Widows’/Widowers’ and
Orphans’ Pension Scheme”. The appointments will be
on probation for a period of three years.
(ii) Attention is invited to General conditions applicable to
appointment in the Public Service laid down at the
beginning of Part I Section (IIA) of this Gazette.
(iii) In addition to the language on which officers entered to
the Grade II/II of Sri Lanka Valuation Service, proficiency
in other official language should be obtained within a
period of 5 years, according to the provisions of the
Public Administration Circular No. 7/2007. If such
proficiency in the other official language is not obtained
within a period of 5 years, the increments  of such officers
will be differed until such qualifications are obtained.
03. Salary and Allowances. – The consolidated salary scale per
month attached to the post is as follows :–
According to the Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006
dated 25.04.2006 this post carries a salary as per Salary Code SL-
1-2006 (monthly) (Rs. 22,935-16x645- Rs. 33,255). Salary will be
paid in accordance with Public Administration Circular No.
06/2006. Efficiency Bar examination as stipulated in Public
Administration Circular No. 06/2006 should be passed. Payment
of salary increments is subject to the passing of Efficiency Bar
examinations.
04. Qualifications.– Every candidate must furnish satisfactory
proof that he/she-
(i) is a citizen of Sri Lanka;
(ii) is of excellent moral character with good eyesight and sound
constitution;
(iii) is not less than 20 years and not more than 35 years of age
on closing date of applications (as per the relevant
provisions of the Establishment Code, the upper age limit
will not apply to persons already in Govt. Service/Provincial
Govt. Service) and
(iv) has obtained following educational qualifications :
(i) A first or second class Honours B.Sc. Degree in Estate
Management & Valuation of a recognized University
or
(ii) A pass in the final examination of the Royal Institution
of Chartered Surveyors (General Division) of the United
Kingdom.
05. Method of Recruitment.– Applicants who qualify in terms of
the notice of calling for application will be required to sit for an
open competitive examination conducted by University of Sri
Jayawardenepura. Selection will be done on the merits achieved at
the examination. Candidates successful at the examination will be
interviewed by a board of interview appointed by the Public Service
Commission in order to check their basic qualifications.
(i) Competitive examination for selection will be held in the
premises of Sri Jayawardenepura University,
Gangodawila, Nugegoda. The power of postponement or
cancellation of the examination vests with the Secretary
to the Ministry of Finance and Planning on the instructions
given by the Public Service Commission.
(ii) Vacancies will be filled according to the merit order of
marks obtained at the examination.
(iii) The Public Service Commission has the power to fill part
of the vacancies or not to fill any of the vacancies.
(iv) If it is proved that the applicant has no qualifications for
the post the candidature of an applicant could be cancelled
at any time before conducting the examination, while it is
going on or after the examination.
Further, even after an appointment is given, if it is proved that
anyone has given false information knowingly, he/she would be
dismissed from the service.
Syllabus for the Open Competitive Examination:
This will consists of two question papers.
1st Question Paper
This paper will consist of not more than 25 multiple choice
questions. Generally, the questions will be based on the subject
areas expected to be covered in a degree programme leading to B. Sc.
Estate Management and Valuation.
Time: 30 minutes
Minimum marks required to pass : 50%
2nd Question Paper
This will be an Essay Type Question Paper
Writing Essays on given topics pertaining to Property Valuation
and related areas and particularly on Land Economics, Property
Market and Town Planning. The questions are designed to test the
in depth knowledge of the applicants’ in the above area.
Time: 2 hours.
Minimum Marks required to Pass : 50%
06. Candidates will be required to produce the following
documents when called upon to do so:
(i) Certificate of Registration of Birth ( N. B .- Baptismal
Certificate of Birth issued for the purpose of the Code of
Regulations for assisted schools will  not be accepted) ;
(ii) Certificates of Educational/Professional qualifications ;
(iii) Two certificates of character, one of which should be from
the Director, College Tutor or Professor.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2009
1532
(iv) Certificates of highest examination passed in Sinhala, Tamil
and English.
Note.– (i) No documents or copies of documents should be
attached to the application form ;
(ii) Applications of candidates who fail to produce
documents when required to do so will not be
considered.
07. Applications of officers in the State Service/ Provincial
Govenment Service and State Corporations must be forwarded
through the respective Heads of Institution.
08. Applications and any other communications relating thereto
must be addressed to the Secretary, Ministry of Finance & Planning,
The Secretariat, Colombo – 01 and not personally to any other
Officer.
By order of the Public Service Commission.
Secretary
Ministry of Finance & Planning.
The Secretariat,
Colombo 01.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
APPLICATION FOR THE OPEN COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION – 2009
FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF DISTRICT V ALUER CLASS II GRADE  II IN
SRI LANKA VALUATION SERVICE
N.B.– The top left-hand corner of the envelope containing the
application should be marked "Application for the post of District
valuer Class II Grade II in the Valuation Department" and send
under registered cover to the Secretary, Ministry of Finance and
Planning, The Secretariat, Colombo - 01.
(For office use only)
Medium for Examination :
Sinhala – 2, Tamil – 3, English – 4
(Insert the Number within the cage)
01. Name of the Applicant :–––––––––.
1.1 Name with initials to the end :–––––––––.
(In English Block Capital) (eg. SILV A, A. B.)
1.2 Name in Full:–––––––––.
(In English Block Capital)
1.3 Full Name:–––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
02. Private Address :–––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
(Change of Address should be informed immediately)
Address for sending Admission:
03. Sex : (Male – 0, Female – 1)
(Insert the Number within the cage)
04. Civil Status: (Single – 1, Married – 2)
(Insert the Number within the cage)
05. Nationality : (Sinhala – 1, Tamil -2,
Indian Tamil – 3, Muslim – 4, Other – 5)
(Insert the Number within the cage)
06. National Identity Card No. :
07. Date of Birth :
Y ear  Month Date
Age to the closing date:
Years Months Days
08. Are you a Citizen of Sri Lanka by decent or by registration :
––––––.
(give details if by registration)
09. Highest Examination passed in following subjects :––––––––.
1. Sinhala
2. Tamil
3. English
10. Educational/Professional Qualifications :–––––––––.
Examination/ Effective Date University/ Subjects
Degree Institute
11. Details of Present Employment and any previous appointment
held :
Designation From  To Annual Salary
12. Have you been dismissed from any Post in the State Service?
(if so, give particulars) :–––––––––.
13. Are there any Departmental disciplinary inquiries pending
against you? (If you are already in Public Service) :–––––––.
14. Have you been convicted of any offence by a Court of Law? :
––––––––.
15. Certification by the Applicant.
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am also aware that if any
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.09.2009
1533
liagble to be disqualified before selection and be dismissed without
any compensation if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
16. Certification from the Head of the Institution, if the applicant
is in Public/Provincial Public/State Corporation or Board
Service. :
I certify that Mr/Miss/Ms ............................................. who
forwards this application, is personally known to me, employed
in......................(Ministry/Department/State Corporation/Board),
no pending disciplinary inquiries against him/her and placed his/her
signature in my presence on this ........ day of ................ 2009.
He/She can be released from the present employment if selected
to be appointed as an As District Valuer, in Class II Grade II of Sri
Lanka V aluation Service.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Attestor.
Full Name of Attestor :–––––––––;
Designation :–––––––––;
Official Address :–––––––––;
(Affix Official Stamp)
Date :–––––––––.
09-891
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.