

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.08.2013
1A
wxl 1823$73 - 2013 wf.daia;= ui 16 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'08'16
No. 1823/73  -  FRIDAY   AUGUST   16,   2013
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
L.D.B.277/40.
THE  ANTIQUITIES  ORDINANCE  (CHAPTER  188)
Notice under Section 16
BY VIRTUE of powers vested in me by section 16 of the Antiquities Ordinance (Chapter 188), I, Jagath Balasuriya, Minister
of National Heritage do by this Order declare that the buildings described in the Schedule to this Order, shall be deemed to
be “ancient monuments” for the purposes of the aforesaid Ordinance.
D
R. JAGA TH BALASURIY A,
Minister of the National Heritage.
Colombo,
15th August, 2013.
SCHEDULE
1. The Rock Sluice (Sorowwa), The Rock Bisokotuwa, The Reservoir’s Dam, The Wave Breaker (Ralapanawa) and
The Spill (Pitavana) of Galpaya Maha Wewa alias Bisokotuwa Wewa, Kandiya palle Wawa located in Galpaya
Bisokotuwegama Village situated in the Grama Niladhari Division of Galpaya (GND No. 219/B) in Weligepola
Divisional Secretary’s Division in Rathnapura District, Sabaragamuwa Province.
2. The rock cave, all ruins located on the rock, the circular carving marked on the North Western face of the said rock
and all ruins of ancient buildings in the vicinity of this rocky land in the location named Valahavetunugala in
Thelambugahaathura village situated in the Grama Niladhari Division of Galpaya (GND No. 219/B) in Weligepola
Divisional Secretary’s Division in Rathnapura District, Sabaragamuwa Province.
3. The location with the ancient rock pillars at Galpaya Ambagahavehera Mankada in the Grama Niladhari Division of
Galpaya (GND No. 219/B) in Weligepola Divisional Secretary’s Division in Rathnapura District, Sabaragamuwa
Province.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
4 – G  18140

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.08.2013
2A
4. The Image house with flight of steps, dagoba, wall surrounding the Bodhi tree, ruins of ancient buildings, caves
with drip-ledges and all the caves with stone inscriptions and rock walls containing stone inscriptions in the
vicinity of Aranya Senasana (Forest Hermitage) in Bambaragala Kanda situated in the Grama Niladhari Division of
Bambaragala (GND No. 219/D) in Weligepola Divisional Secretary’s Division in Rathnapura District, Sabaragamuwa
Province.
5. The caves with drip-ledges containing stone inscriptions in Yatimalkaduwa village situated in the Grama Niladhari
Division of Handagiriya in Weligepola Divisional Secretary’s Division in Rathnapura District, Sabaragamuwa
Province.
6. The cave with drip-ledge named Helawatta Budugalge in Grama Niladhari Division of Amuwathugoda
(GND No. 272/B) in Imbulpe Divisional Secretary’s Division in Rathnapura District, Sabaragamuwa Province.
7. The rock cave named Piyangiriya alias Udupiyan Gallena in Diyavinna village, situated in the Grama Niladhari
Division of Diyawinna (GND No. 260/A) in Balangoda Divisional Secretary’s Division in Rathnapura District,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
8. The rock stage containing the seat named Endagala, rock steps (Putugala) and ruins of the ancient building in
Kuragala village situated in the (GSD) Grama Niladhari Division of Thanjantenna (GND No. 258/C) in Balangoda
Divisional Secretary’s Division in Rathnapura District, Sabaragamuwa Province.
9. The rock cave named Uppukulama Gallena (Lunugalge), the rock cave with pre-historic evidence in the Grama
Niladhari Division of Kuragala (GND No. 258/F) in Balangoda Divisional Secretary’s Division in Rathnapura
District, Sabaragamuwa Province.
10. The ancient retaining wall, all ruins of buildings at the location named Maligatenna (Udagama Vehera) and the
ruins of a building at Diyawinna School Lane in Diyavinna village situated in the Grama Niladhari Division of
Diyawinna (GND No. 260/A) in Balangoda Divisional Secretary’s Division in Rathnapura District, Sabaragamuwa
Province.
11. The pre-historic burial site located in the land belonging to Ranchamadama Vidyalaya (School) in Grama Niladhari
Division of Ranchamadama in Embilipitiya Divisional Secretary’s Division in Rathnapura District, Sabaragamuwa
Province.
12. The cave with drip ledge and stone inscriptions and rock Inscription located in the territory of the Belawanagala
religious complex in Belawanagala village situated in the Grama Niladhari Division of Panahaduwa (GND
No. 244/G) in Embilipitiya Divisional Secretary’s Division in Rathnapura District, Sabaragamuwa Province.
13. The ruins of the ancient buildings and hillock covering the dagoba located in Tenketiyaya area in Panahaduwa in
village situated in the Grama Niladhari Division of Panahaduwa (GND No. 244/G) in Embilipitiya Divisional
Secretary’s Division in Rathnapura District, Sabaragamuwa Province.
14. The stone inscription to mark the Wariyapola rebellion of Matale at Wariyapola-Matale Junction at Kohombiliwala
village situated in the Grama Niladhari Division of Kohombiliwala in Ukuwela Divisional Secretary’s Division in
Matale District, Central Province.
15. The Flower Alter (Malasanaya), and the stone pillars located in the territory of Mal Asna Yaya in Warahena village
situated in the Grama Niladhari Division of Etawarahena (GND No. 451/E) in Dambulla Divisional Secretary’s
Division in Matale District, Central Province.
16. The ancient doss house (Naula Ambalama) located in the Grama Niladhari Division of Naula in Naula Divisional
Secretary’s Division in Matale District, Central Province.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.08.2013
3A
17. The ancient doss house (Divilla Ambalama) located in the Grama Niladhari Division of Divilla (GND No. 337/A) in
Yatawatte Divisional Secretary’s Division in Matale District, Central Province.
18. The ancient doss house (Naranwala Ambalama) located in the Grama Niladhari Division of Naranwala in Udunuwara
Divisional Secretary’s Division in Kandy District, Central Province.
19. The old perimeter high wall, old watch huts, the old main entrance gate and the entire ancient building complex of
Bogambara Prison in the Grama Niladhari Division of Bogambara in Gangawata Koralaya Divisional Secretary’s
Division in Kandy District, Central Province.
20. The ancient doss house (Hedunuwewa Ambalama) located in the Grama Niladhari Division of Hedunuwewa in
Kotmale Divisional Secretary’s Division in Nuwara Eliya District, Central Province.
21. The ancient doss house (Pattiyawatte Ambalama) located in the Grama Niladhari Division of Udabokalewala in
Harispaththuwa Divisional Secretary’s Division in Kandy District, Central Province.
22. The ancient doss house (Kohanga Ambalama) located in the Grama Niladhari Division of Kohonga in Udunuwara
Divisional Secretary’s Division in Kandy District, Central Province.
23. The ancient masonry arch-bridge in the Grama Niladhari Division of Nanuoya in Yatinuwara Divisional Secretary’s
Division in Kandy District, Central Province.
24. The building belonging to the Buwelikada Kandyan Cultural Society (Udarata Kala Sangam Shalawa)  in the
Grama Niladhari Division of Buwelikada in Gangawata Koralaya Divisional Secretary’s Division in Kandy District,
Central Province.
25. The ancient doss house (Karalliyadda Ambalama) located in Medagammedda village situated in the Grama Niladhari
Division of Medagammedda in Meda Dumbara Divisional Secretary’s Division in Kandy District, Central Province.
26. The ancient doss house (Konakagala Ambalama) located in Konakagala village situated in the Grama Niladhari
Division of Konakagala in Akurana Divisional Secretary’s Division in Kandy District, Central Province.
27. The Old building belonging to the Road Development Authority, Kandy located in the Grama Niladhari Division of
Kandy in Gangawata Koralaya Divisional Secretary’s Division in Kandy District, Central Province.
28. The old post office building located in the Grama Niladhari Division of Kandy in Kandy District, Central Province.
29. The tank named Udamaluwa Wewa in the Grama Niladhari Division of Hanguranketha in Hanguranketha Divisional
Secretary’s Division in Nuwara Eliya District, Central Province.
30. The ancient doss house (Muruthalawa Ambalama) located in Muruthalawa village, situated in the Grama Niladhari
Division of Sooriyagoda in Yatinuwara Divisional Secretary’s Division in Kandy District, Central Province.
31. The ancient burial ground located in Habaraliya of Kalkanniya in the Grama Niladhari Division of Welanwita in
Haldummulla Divisional Secretary’s Division in Badulla District, Uva Province.
32. The rock surface containing pre-historic archaeological evidences, located in Monaragala Forest Rerserve in
Meeriyabedda in the Grama Niladhari Division of Meeriyabedda (GND No. 88) in Passara Divisional Secretary’s
Division in Monaragala District, Uva Province.
33. All caves with drip-ledges in the territory of Dimbulagala Forest Hermitage (Arannya Senasanaya) in Kuda
Dimbulagala village situated in the Grama Niladhari Division of Jayapura in Siyambalanduwa Divisional Secretary’s
Division in Monaragala District, Uva Province.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.08.2013
4A
34. The caves with drip-ledges in the area known as Thalakolawewa in the Grama Niladhari Division of Kumaragama
in Buttala Divisional Secretary’s Division in Monaragala District, Uva Province.
35. The ruined building, caves with drip-ledges and flight of steps in site, which is known as Naliyavanaya in Suriya
Ara village situated in the Grama Niladhari Division of Nikawewa (GND No. 147/B) in Thanamalwila Divisional
Secretary’s Division in Monaragala District, Uva Province.
36. The site named Veheragalthalawa with ruins having archaeological evidences in Suriya Ara village situated in the
Grama Niladhari Division of Nikawewa (GND No. 147/B) in Thanamalwila Divisional Secretary’s Division in
Monaragala District, Uva Province.
37. The site with caves with drip-ledges and a stone inscription known as Galapitagala in Suriya Ara village situated
in the Grama Niladhari Division of Nikawewa (GND No. 147/B) in Thanamalwila Divisional Secretary’s Division in
Monaragala District, Uva Province.
38. The site with caves with drip-ledges and stone inscriptions located in the territory of Naliyavanaya Forest Hermitage
in Suriya Ara village situated in the Grama Niladhari Division of Nikawewa (GND No. 147/B) in Thanamalwila
Divisional Secretary’s Division in Monaragala District, Uva Province.
39. The ruins of the buildings and the hillock that covers the dagoba located at the place known as Vihara Kanda in
Karandagolla village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Karandagolla (GND No. 69/A) in Ella Divisional Secretary’s
Division in Badulla District, Uva Province.
40. The ruins of the buildings and the hillock that covers the old dagoba located in the precincts of Phussadeva Vihara
(Temple) in the Grama Niladhari Division of Sampathgama in Sevanagala Divisional Secretary’s Division in
Monaragala District, Uva Province.
41. The old dagoba, the building with stone pillars, U/uposatha house (Seemamalakaya) the old retaining wall, place
with stone flight of steps and Bodhighara, which are located in the site known as Mallawa in the Grama Niladhari
Division of Nelliyadda in Bibila Divisional Secretary’s Division in Monaragala District, Uva Province.
42. All the caves with drip-ledges inscribed with Brahmi letters located in territory of Sri Mahatissa Forest Hermitage
in Watawanwatte in Netola village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Dimbulamure in Wellawaya Divisional
Secretary’s Division in Monaragala District, Uva Province.
43. The hillock of the old Dagoba, flight of steps, carved symbols and Keri notes and all ruins on the rock surface
known as Ulkanda Olugala in the Grama Niladhari Division of Pubuduwewa in Wellawaya Divisional Secretary’s
Division in Monaragala District, Uva Province.
44. The area of the Niyandagala rock surface with archaeological evidences in the Grama Niladhari Division of Minipe
(GND No. 943) in Mahiyangana Divisional Secretary’s Division in Badulla District, Uva Province.
45. The old doss house (ancient Ambalama) located at Wattekele at Egodawela in Thennayaya village in the Grama
Niladhari Division of Wattekele in Soranatota Divisional Secretary’s Division in Badulla District, Uva Province.
46. The rock surface with deposits of pre-historic stone implements known as Havenketiya situated in the Grama
Niladhari Division of Karametiya in Meegahakiwula Divisional Secretary’s Division in Badulla District, Uva Province.
47. The hillock of the Dagoba, stone surface with quarry marks and ruins of the building in the precincts of V eheragoda
Ancient Temple (Vihara) in Thallanda village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Pitakumbura in Bibila Divisional
Secretary’s Division in Monaragala District, Uva Province.
48. All the drip-ledge caves in the site known as Walahapatana in Dodanwatte village in the Grama Niladhari Division
of Karambagoda in Siyambalanduwa Divisional Secretary’s Division in Monaragala District, Uva Province.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.08.2013
5A
49. All the caves with drip-ledges and all the caves with Brahmi letters, all ruins of buildings and flight of rock steps
in the territory of Bingoda Forest Hermitage in Bowela village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Kandaudapanguwa
in Siyambalanduwa Divisional Secretary’s Division in Monaragala District, Uva Province.
50. The Government Agent’s bungalow and the ancient wall in Eliyakanda South in the Grama Niladhari Division of
Eliyakanda (GND No. 416/A) in Matara Divisional Secretary’s Division in Matara District, Southern Province.
51. The doss house (Parawahera Ambalama) in Parawahera village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Parawahera East
in Matara Divisional Secretary’s Division in Matara District, Southern Province.
52. The Dutch stable (Old Dutch church) located in Hirewatte Village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Hirewatte
(GND No. 82) in Ambalangoda Divisional Secretary’s Division in Galle District, Southern Province.
53. The doss house (Ratmale Ambalama) in Rathmale village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Bambarenda South in
Dikwella Divisional Secretary’s Division in Matara District, Southern Province.
54. The old building in the premises of St. Thomas Kumara Vidyalaya on St. Thomas Mawatha, Matara in the Grama
Niladhari Division of Kade V eediya East (GND No. 117/A) in Kadawath Sathara Divisional Secretary’s Division in
Matara District, Southern Province.
55. The building of the old Police Station at Tangalle village in Tangalle Divisional Secretary’s Division in Hambantota
District, Southern Province.
56. The old building in which the present Land Registry is being located in Kurunegala Municipal Council area in the
Grama Niladhari Division of Kurunegala Town (GND No. 831) in Kurunegala Divisional Secretary’s Division in
Kurunegala District, North Western Province.
57. The building site where the International Lions Club is located that can be considered to bear the remains of an old
bridge of archaeological importance, situated next to the Sri Jayewardanapura Mawatha in the Grama Niladhari
Division of Ethul Kotte (GND No. 521) in Sri Jayawardanapura Kotte Divisional Secretary’s Division in Colombo
District, Western Province.
58. The stone retaining wall on the bank of Kolon Oya in the Grama Niladhari Division of Ethul Kotte in Sri
Jayawardanapura Kotte Divisional Secretary’s Division in Colombo District, Western Province.
59. The rock doss house (Gal Ambalama) situated at Pitakotte Junction in the Grama Niladhari Division of Pita Kotte
(GND No. 522 B) in Sri Jayawardanapura Kotte Divisional Secretary’s Division in Colombo District, Western
Province.
60. The Lambric Hall in the premises of Sri Jayawardanapura Maha Vidyalaya in the Grama Niladhari Division of Pita
Kotte west (GND No. 522 B) in Sri Jayawardanapura Kotte Divisional Secretary’s Division in Colombo District,
Western Province.
61. The rock surface having archaeological evidences, situated in the place known as Ranpokuna in the Grama
Niladhari Division of Pita Kotte (GND No. 522 B) in Sri Jayawardanapura Kotte Divisional Secretary’s Division in
Colombo District, Western Province.
62. The ruins of Alakeshvara of Ethul Kotte in the Grama Niladhari Division of Ethul Kotte (GND No. 521) in Sri
Jayawardanapura Kotte Divisional Secretary’s Division in Colombo District, Western Province.
63. The old building in which the office of the Department of the Auditor General is being operated and which is
located in the Independence Avenue of the Independence Square in the Grama Niladhari Division of Colombo 07
in Thimbirigasyaya Divisional Secretary’s Division in Colombo District, Western Province.
5 – G  18140

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.08.2013
6A
64. The old Town Hall building of the Municipal Council located in the Main Street in the Grama Niladhari Division of
Pettah (Pitakotuwa) in Colombo 11 in Colombo District, Western Province.
65. The main building and other old building in the premises of the base hospital of Watupitiwala in the Grama
Niladhari Division of Watupitiwala in Attanagalla Divisional Secretary’s Division in Gampaha District, Western
Province.
66. The District Court building and the tunnel in Vella Veediya (Beach Street) in the Grama Niladhari Division of
Munnakaraya North (GND No. 156) in Negombo Divisional Secretary’s Division in Gampaha District, Western
Province.
67. The wall of the old fort located in the Rock House Army Camp in the Grama Niladhari Division of Modera in Modera
Divisional Secretary’s Division in Colombo District, Western Province.
68. The building in which the office of the pettah Wella Veediya (Dam Street) Divisional Secretary is operated in the
Grama Niladhari Division of Pettah Welle Veediya (Dam Street) in Colombo Divisional Secretary’s Division in
Colombo District, Western Province.
69. The bisikotu, two sluices, wave breaker (Relapanava) the spill gates (pitavana) and the stone inscription on it
ruins of the buildings on the reservoir dam of Kuda Vilachchiya Tank (Wewa) bordering the Grama Niladhari
Division of Kiralpetiyawa (GND No. 361) and the Grama Niladhari Division of Kuda Vilachchiya (GND No. 369) and
the Vilpattu National Park in Vilachchiya Divisional Secretary’s Division in Anuradhapura District, North Central
Province.
70. The ruins of hillock in area in Malwatuoya Umakovila village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Adampan of
Maluvarayankatte in Madhu Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mannar District, North Province.
71. The ruins of buildings in the area known as Sinnawalyankattu in Walayankattu village in the Grama Niladhari
Division of Puwarasamkulam in Madhu Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mannar District, North Province.
72. The ruins of the building and dagoba in the place known as Marudamadu (Pudayalpiti) in Marudamadu village in
the Grama Niladhari Division of Kakiyankulam in Madhu Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mannar District, North
Province.
73. The ruins of the building in the area known as Kollamkulam (Pudayalpiti) in Kollamkulam village in the Grama
Niladhari Division of Vilathikulam (GND No. 43) in Madhu Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mannar District,
North Province.
74. The old dagoba at Sekkadikulam in Ulundapolam village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Iraneilepeykulam
(GND No. 42) in Madhu Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mannar District, North Province.
75. The old dagoba, the image house, the pond and the ruins of buildings located at Pokkarawanni of Mullikulam
village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Ireneileppeykulam (GND No. 42) in Madhu Divisional Secretary’s
Division in Mannar District, North Province.
76. The old dagoba, the image house, and the other archaeological ruins located in close proximity of Niravikulam
Tank in Kirisuddan (Devepuram) village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Keerisuddan in Madhu Divisional
Secretary’s Division in Mannar District, North Province.
77. The ruins of a building located in the place called Niravikulam in Keerisuddan (Devapuram) village in the Grama
Niladhari Division of Keerisuddan in Madhu Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mannar District, North Province.
78. The site with ruins of Sengalpitti in Sengalpitti village in Manthai Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mannar
District, North Province.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.08.2013
7A
79. The site with stone pillars and ruins of a building at the place known as Ottamkulam in the Grama Niladhari Division
of Periyamuruppu in Madhu Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mannar District, North Province.
80. The old dagoba at Periyaveli  in the Grama Niladhari Division of Periyakunchikulam in Madhu Divisional Secretary’s
Division in Mannar District, North Province.
81. The anicut (Amuna) at Thekkama in the Grama Niladhari Division of Thekkama in Madhu Divisional Secretary’s
Division in Mannar District, North Province.
82. The old dagoba at Mullikulam village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Iraneileppeykulam (GND No. 42) in Madhu
Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mannar District, North Province.
83. The site with a dagoba on a hillock, stone pillars, pillar bases in Maligapitti village in the Grama Niladhari Division
of Nanattan in Nanattan Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mannar District, North Province.
84. The Dorick Building in Arippu village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Arippu East in Musali Divisional Secretary’s
Division in Mannar District, North Province.
85. The Arippu fort in Muktharipuththurai village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Arippu West in Musali Divisional
Secretary’s Division in Mannar District, North Province.
86. The Dutch guard post in Narapadu in the Grama Niladhari Division of Narapadu in Mannar Divisional Secretary’s
Division in Mannar District, North Province.
87. The Old Portuguese Church or the ruins of Kappa Kavil in Periyakarasal village in the Grama Niladhari Division of
Periyakarasal (GND No. 59) in Mannar Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mannar District, North Province.
88. The ruins of buildings including all the ruins of archaeological value in the premises at Matota Raja Maha Vihara
and the Old Surveying Base Town in front of the Tiruketheeshvaram Kovil (Hindu Temple) at Thiruketheeshwaram
village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Ilukpitiya in Mannar Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mannar District,
North Province.
89. The old dagoda and ruins of buildings in Alankulam village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Alankulam in
Thunukkai Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
90. The hillock with ruins of buildings of archaeological value in the site to the east of Waddakalikulam tank in
Iranamadu village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Ambakamam in Oddusudan Divisional Secretary’s Division in
Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
91. The site with ruins of buildings, a wall and ruins of archaeological value in the vicinity of Muthiyankattukulam in
the Grama Niladhari Division of Muthiyankattukulam in Oddusudan Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu
District, Northern Province.
92. The hillock covering the ruins of a dagoba and the site with ruins of stone pillars in Thannimurukkukulam in
Komalamune village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Komalamune Central in Muhudubada Paththuwa Divisional
Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
93. The site with ruins of buildings and stone pillars in Kachchilamadu village in the Grama Niladhari Division of
Kachchilamadu (peraru) in Oddusudan Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
94. The caves with drip-ledges, the hillock covering the dagoba and the ruins of buildings in Kodikachchi Koddiyamalai
in the Grama Niladhari Division of Koddiyamalai in Oddusudan Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu
District, Northern Province.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.08.2013
8A
95. The site with ruins known as Nidanpitiya in Pandaravanni village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Pandaravanni
in Oddusudan Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
96. The site with ruins in Kanagaratnapuram village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Kanagaratnapuram
(GND No. 55) in Oddusudan Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
97. The old anicut in Peraru village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Muthiyankattukulam in Oddusudan Divisional
Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
98. The site with ruins in the vicinity of Sri Chithravelayudam Murugan Hindu Temple in Kumarapuram village in the
Grama Niladhari Division of Kumarapuram (GND No. 72) in Muhudubada Pattuva Divisional Secretary’s Division
in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
99. The site with ruins at Mannakannar in Mannakannar village in Oddusudan Divisional Secretary’s Division in
Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
100. The site with ruins of old buildings in Tholichchimotai village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Kanduvan
(GND No. 125) in Oddusudan Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
101. The cave complex with drip-ledges and ruins of archaeological value in Otiyamalai village in the Grama Niladhari
Division of Otiyamalai (GND No. 123) in Oddusudan Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern
Province.
102. The hillock covering a dagoba and ruins of archaeological value in the vicinity of the site known as Pansalkanda
at Janakapura village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Janakapura (GND No. 05) in Sampathnuwara (Welioya)
Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
103. The hillock covering a dagoba the ruins of old buildings and base stones in the area called Janakpuragama and
Sanctuary in Janakapura village in the Grama Niladhari Division (GND No. 05) of Janakapura in Sampathnuwara
(Welioya) Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
104. The hillock covering a dagoba, the ruins of old buildings and base stones in the area called Nidan Bhumiya in
Janakapura village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Janakapura in Sampathnuwara (Welioya) Divisional Secretary’s
Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
105. The hillock covering a dagoba the rock pillars and the ruins of old buildings in the area called Mahapitiya in
Janakapura village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Ehetugaswewa (GND No. 05) in (Welioya) Sampathnuwara
Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
106. The site with ruins located in the vicinity of Komalamune Kovil in Pillaiyargama village in the Grama Niladhari
Division of Komalamune in Mulaitivu Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
107. The old sluice of Thannimuruppukulam tank and the ruins of archaeological value in the vicinity of the Grama
Niladhari Division of Thannimuruppukulam in Mullayaweli Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mullaitivu District,
Northern Province.
108. The hillocks covering a dagoba, caves with drip-ledges and stone pillars in the site named Kumbhakaranamalai in
Kiriibbanwewa village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Kiriibbanwewa in Muhudubada Pattuva Divisional
Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
109. The hillock covering a dagoba, ruins of buildings at a site named Andamkulam in Andamkulam village in Weralabada
Pattuva Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.08.2013
9A
110. The hillock covering a dagoba and ruins with base stones in Thattankotuwa village in Muhudubada Pattuva
Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
111. The hillock covering the ruins of stone pillars and the site with ruins of base stones in Thattankotuwa village in
Muhudubada Pattuva Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
112. The site of ruins with archaeological value located in the vicinity of the paddy field in Helambawewa Forest
Reserve in Kiriibbanwewa village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Kiriibbanwewa-North in Weralabada Pattuva
Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
113. The Wannadi bridge and the anicut (Amuna) in Welioya village in Sampathnuwara Divisional Secretary’s Division
in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
114. The caves with drip-ledges and ruins of archaeological value in the premises of the Maha Seya Vihara in Welioya
village in Sampathnuwara Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
115. The site with ruins at Kannathikulam in Kannathikulam village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Kokilai in
Muhudubada Pattuva Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
116. The caves with drip-ledges, the hillock covering a dogoba and ruins of buildings with base stones located at the
place named Punchi Kiriibbanwewa in Nawamorawewa village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Gajabapura in
Muhudubada Pattuva Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
117. The site with ruins of stone pillars located on the right bank of Kiriibbanwewa tank in Kiriibbanwewa village in the
Grama Niladhari Division of Kiriibanwewa in Muhudubada Pattuva Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu
District, Northern Province.
118. The ruins of archaeological value in the premises of Vavnikulam Shivapuram Sri Male Kovil in Mallavi village in the
Grama Niladhari Division of Palinagar (GND No. 35) in Manthai East Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu
District, Northern Province.
119. The hillock covering the ruins of stone pillars located in the vicinity of Nelumwewa tank in Kiriibbanwewa village
in the Grama Niladhari Division of Kiriibbanwewa (GND No. 04) in Sampathnuwara Divisional Secretary’s Division
in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
120. The hillock covering the ruins in the site named Welliyawillu in Wannerikulam village in the Grama Niladhari
Division of Kenniyamkulam in Thunukkai Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
121. The ancient dagoba, the image house and the ruins of buildings located on the tank buffer zone (Thavulla) of
Muthiyankattuwa tank in the premises of the Army Training School at Muthiyankattuwa in the Grama
Niladhari Division of Muthiyankattuwa in Oddusudan Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern
Province.
122. The hillock covering a dagoba, the ruins of  a buildings and base stones located in the premises of Nagathambran
Kovil in Kollawalamkulam village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Palinagar in Manthai East Divisional Secretary’s
Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
123. The hillock covering a ruins of a dagoba, ruins of buildings and other artifacts in Kirisuddan Parangiaru village in
Manthai East Divisonal Secretary’s Division in Mullaitivu District, North Province.
124. The hillock covering the ruins of a dagoba at Vettuneeravi in Saratikulam village in the Grama Niladhari Division of
Saratikulam (GND No. 15) in Manthai East Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.08.2013
10A
125. The Market place of Mulaitivu in the Grama Niladhari Division of Mulaitivu in Mulaitivu Divisional Secretary’s
Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
126. The site of the ruins of buildings in Kombuachchukulam village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Mundimuruppu
in Manthai East Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
127. The site with ruins of archaeological value in the Periyakulam Forest in Periyakulam village in the Grama Niladhari
Division of Vannivilankulam in Manthai East Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
128. The site with the brick wall and ruins at Vannivilankulam village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Vannivilankulam
in Manthai East Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
129. The stone inscription and the site with ruins in the premises of Puvarasakulam Bhadrakali Kovil in the Grama
Niladhari Division of Puvarasakulam in Manthai-East Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern
Province.
130. The site with ruins of buildings and all archaeological evidences in the premises of Pandipuliyankulam Shivan
Kovil in Karinpuliyankulam village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Pandiuankulam in Manthai East Divisional
Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
131. The hillock covering the ruins of a dagoba and the site showing crevices of stone pillars on the rock surface closer
to the hillock at Vinayagapuram village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Vinayagapuram in Manthai East Divisional
Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
132. The site with ruins of ancient buildings, located in the vicinity of the Army Training School at Muthiyankattuwa
in the Grama Niladhari Division of Muthiyankattuwa in Oddusudan Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu
District, Northern Province.
133. The ruins of archaeological value located in the premises of the Headquarters of the 09th Gajaba Regiment in
Nelumwewa village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Kiriibbanwewa in Weralabada Pattuva Divisional Secretary’s
Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
134. The hillocks covering the ruins of dagobas and other ruins of archaeological value in the vicinity of Chettamalai in
the Grama Niladhari Division of Chettamalai East in Muhudubada Pattuva Divisional Secretary’s Division in
Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
135. The Manthondishvaram Kovil in Oddusudan area and the archaeological ruins in its vicinity in the Grama Niladhari
Division of Oddusudan in Oddusudan Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern Province.
136. The hillock covering a dagoba and ruins of the buildings in Sengalpiti area in Mundimuruppu village in the Grama
Niladhari Division of Nattankandal in Manthai East Divisional Secretary’s Division in Mulaitivu District, Northern
Province.
137. The public market of Chunnakam in the Grama Niladhari Division of Chunnakam (GND No. J-198) in Uduvil
Divisional Secretary’s Division in Jaffna District, Northern Province.
138. The Portuguese Church at Mayladdi in the Grama Niladhari Division of Mayladdithurai South (GND No. 248) in
Thellippalai Divisional Secretary’s Division in Jaffna District, Northern Province.
139. The Lighthouse at Kankesanturai in the Grama Niladhari Division of Central Kankesanturai (GND No. J-234) in
Thellippalai Divisional Secretary’s Division in Jaffna District, Northern Province.
140. The old Dutch hospital in West Gurunagar village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Central Delft (GND No. J-4) in
Delft Divisional Secretary’s Division in Jaffna District, Northern Province.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.08.2013
11A
141. The ruins of an old fort named Allirani Fort in Alleipiddi village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Alleipiddi
(GND No. J-10) in V elanei Divisional Secretary’s Division in Jaffna District, Northern Province.
142. The Megalithic burials on the Chart Beach of Kayts in Allepiddi village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Alleipiddi
(GND No. J-13) in Velanei North East Divisional Secretary’s Division in Jaffna District, Northern Province.
143. The ruins of Hindu Kovil in the Grama Niladhari Division of Delft South (GND No. J-02) in Delft Divisional
Secretary’s Division in Jaffna District, Northern Province.
144. The site with pre-historic evidence in Mayakkar area in East Mayakkar Alvai in the Grama Niladhari Division of
Alvai East (GND No. J-380) in Karaveddi Divisional Secretary’s Division in Jaffna District, Northern Province.
145. The ancient pond in the area known as Old Park in the Grama Niladhari Division of Jaffna (GND No. J-76) in Jaffna
Divisional Secretary’s Division in Jaffna District, Northern Province.
146. The site with ruins of buildings in the forest area near the dam of the Omarakada tank in Omarakada village in the
Grama Niladhari Division of Urewa (GND No. 15) in Padaviya Divisional Secretary’s Division in Anuradhapura
District, North Central Province.
147. The sites of ruins and the hillock covering a dagoba located in the place named Viharakele in the vicinity of
Kavarakkulama Tank in Nelumkanniya village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Nelumkanniya (GND No. 278) in
East Nuwaragam Palatha Divisional Secretary’s Division in Anuradhapura District, North Central Province.
148. The hillock covering the dagoba, the image house, Bodhighara, Pohoyage, Boundary Wall and the access road
and the complex of ruins in Sapumalgaskada village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Wedivattukallu in Vavuniya
North Divisional Secretary’s Division in Vavuniya District, Northern Province.
149. The site with ruins of buildings, stone pillars in Vedivattukulam village in the Grama Niladhari Division of
Vedivattukallu in Vavuniya North Divisional Secretary’s Division in Vavuniya District, Northern Province.
150. The two hillocks covering the dagobas, the brick wall, the base stones and the rock inscription in Vedivattukallu
village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Marathodi in Vavuniya North Divisional Secretary’s Division in Vavuniya
District, Northern Province.
151. The hillock covering the dagoba Kachchilamottaikulam area in Marathodi village in the Grama Niladhari Division
of Marathodi in Vavuniya North Divisional Secretary’s Division in Vavuniya District, Northern Province.
152. The site with ruins of stone pillars in Vedivaddukallu village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Vediwaddukallu in
Vavuniya North Divisional Secretary’s Division in Vavuniya District, Northern Province.
153. The site with ruins of archaeological value in the premises of Anna Devamadu in Nedunkerni area in Paneinindran
village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Marailuppai (GND No. 22) in Nedunkerni Divisional Secretary’s Division
in Vavuniya District, Northern Province.
154. The hillock covering the dagoba, pillars bases and ruins of buildings in Nikawewa village in the Grama Niladhari
Division of Nikawewa in Sampathnuwara Divisional Secretary’s Division in V avuniya District, Northern Province.
155. The ancient ruins in Kandasami malai area in the Grama Niladhari Division of Thennamaramvadi in Kuchchaveli
Divisional Secretary’s Division in Trincomalee District, Eastern Province.
156. The ruins of a stone bridge located in the forest area in the south west direction to the bridge on Yan Oya in the
Grama Niladhari Division of No. 01 (31/1) in Kuchchaveli Divisional Secretary’s Division in Trincomalee District,
Eastern Province.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.08.2013
12A
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
157. The ancient dagoba and the ruins found on the hill to the east of Periyakulama Tank (Manamuthu Wewa) in
Periyakulama village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Periyakulama in Kuchchaveli Divisional Secretary’s Division
in Trincomalee District, Eastern Province.
158. The cave inscriptions with drip-ledges, the ruins of ancient buildings and other ruins with archaeological evidence
in its vicinity located in the area named Nagalena in Pulmudai village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Pulmudai
(GND No. 04) in Kuchchaveli Divisional Secretary’s Division in Trincomalee District, Eastern Province.
159. The site with ruins of an image house, the dagoba and the ruins of buildings located in the forest area on the
upstream of Andankulam Tank (Andawewa) in Pulmudai village in Kuchchaveli Divisional Secretary’s Division in
Trincomalee District, Eastern Province.
160. The site with ruins of an ancient image house located on the upstream of the Kolongolla Tank in Kolongolla village
in the Grama Niladhari Division of Old Medawachchiya (GND No. 31/F) in Padaviya Divisional Secretary’s Division
in Trincomalee District, Eastern Province.
161. The site with ruins of ancient buildings located in the middle of a paddy field in the vicinity of the tank known as
Karambawewa in Karambawewa village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Old Medawachchiya (GND No. 31/F) in
Padavi Sri Pura Divisional Secretary’s Division in Trincomalee District, Eastern Province.
162. The site with ruins of an image house in Meegaswewa village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Old Medawachchiya
(GND No. 31/F) in Padavi Sri Pura Divisional Secretary’s Division in Trincomalee District, Eastern Province.
163. The ancient dagoba and the site with the ruins of buildings of archeological value in the Grama Niladhari Division
of Kuchchaveli (GND No. 237) in Kuchchaveli Divisional Secretary’s Division in Trincomalee District, Eastern
Province.
164. The archaeological site at Kiwulekada containing the Shiva Kovil and the rock inscription in Kiwulekada village in
the Grama Niladhari Division of Kiwulekada (GND No. 233-A) in Gomarankadawala Divisional Secretary’s Division
in Trincomalee District, Eastern Province.
165. The ancient dagoba and the two sites with the ruins of buildings of archaeological value at Mailawewa village in
the Grama Niladhari Division of Kiwulekada (GND No. 233-C) in Gomarankadawala Divisional Secretary’s Division
in Trincomalee District, Eastern Province.
166. The site with ruins of ancient buildings at Kirindewa village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Pulikandikulama
(GND No. 233-B) in Gomarankadawala Divisional Secretary’s Division in Trincomalee District, Eastern Province.
167. The archaeological site of Pahalagama in Trinco/Medawachchiya village in the Grama Niladhari Division of
Threemedawachchiya (GND No. 233-C) in Gomarankadawala Divisional Secretary’s Division in Trincomalee District,
Eastern Province.
168. The archaeological site of Andiyagala containing the ancient dagoba and ruins of buildings in Kuttikulama village
in the Grama Niladhari Division of Kiwulekada (GND No. 233-A) in Gomarankadawala Divisional Secretary’s
Division in Trincomalee District, Eastern Province.
169. The archaeological site with the ancient Bodhighara and ruins of buildings at Andagala in Thirappane village in
the Grama Niladhari Division of Galkadawala (GND No. 232) in Gomarankadawala Divisional Secretary’s Division
in Trincomalee District, Eastern Province.
170. The ancient mosque (Mohideen Jumma Palli) in Aththangare village in the Grama Niladhari Division of Eravur
(GND No. 6 D) in Eravur Town Divisional Secretary’s Division in Batticaloa District, Eastern Province.
08-1087