

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  
ɼ  ලංකා  ȝජාතාǦƵක  සමාජවා Ǐ  ජනරජ ෙɏ  ගැසŸ  පƴ ය 
අƯ ɪෙශෂ   
අංක 2126/20 - 2019  őǧ මස 04 වැǧ අඟහɞවාදා  - 2019.06.04 
 
No. 2126/20 –  TUESDAY JUNE,  04,  2019 
EXTRAORDINARY 
IT  is hereby announced that the by -laws described in the following schedule hereto, formulated by Wattala -Mabola 
Urban Council under Section 153, read along with Section 157 (Chapter 255) of Urban Councils Ordinan ce, were 
approved as per the powers conferred to me under Section 154 of Urban Councils Ordinance required to  be read along 
with Section 02 of the  Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act No. 12 of 1989. 
 
 ISURA DEVAPRIYA, 
 Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and 
 Planning, Engineering Services, Law and Order,  
 Local Government and Provincial 
 Administration, Economic Development,  
 Electricity and Energy, Environmental Affairs, 
 Water Supply and Drainage and Tourism Affairs  
 of Western Province. 
 
 
At Provincial Council Building, 
No. 204, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha, 
Battaramulla. 
On the 18th  Day of April, 2019, 
 
 
 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 
1A 
(Published by Authority) 
 
PART IV (A):  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS  
 
Provincial Council  Notifications 
 
Western Province Provincial Council 
 
Wattala - Mabola Urban Council 
 
Notice Published under Section 154 of Urban Councils Ordinance Read with  
Section 2 of Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act No. 12 of 1989 
PG 4540 - 12 (2019/06) 


<!-- page 2 -->

2 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
BY-LAW  
 
 WATTALA-MABOLA URBAN COUNCIL 
 
 
BY-LAW RELATING TO FOOD PRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION CENTERS OF WATTALA-MABOLA 
URBAN COUNCIL 
 
 
1. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize, supervise and control food production and distribution centers within 
Wattala - Mabola Urban Council area of authority with a charge prescribed and levied on it.  
 
2. This by-law shall be cited as the By-law Relating to Food Production and Distribution Centers. 
 
3. Unless there is a valid licence issued by the Chairman under this by -law, no person shall maintain food production 
and distribution center (hereinafter referred to as the “premises”) within Wattala – Mabola Urban Council Area of 
Authority (hereinafter referred to as “area of authority”) . 
 
4. Every licence issued under this by-law, unless cancelled earlier, shall be valid up to thirty first of December of the 
year for which it was issued.  
 
5. Unless the following mentioned conditions in the by -laws of this part are fulfilled; the Chairman shall not issue a 
license to any food production and distribution center:—  
 
 (i) All the permanent constructions relating to the premises shall be constructed in conformation to a w ritten 
law and approved plan; 
 
 (ii) The premises should be of proper renovated condition;  
 
 (iii) The minimum height of the walls of all rooms shall not be less than 2.5 Meters, while the said walls  should 
be constructed permanently with both sides plastered with mortar and applied with paints; 
 
 (iv) While every room in the interior of the premises shall be fixed with a ceiling, it shall be at a hei ght of not 
less than 2.5 Meters from the ground level; 
 
 (v) Every room of the premises shall have windows that could be opened to the outside. The area of the o pened 
windows shall not be less than one fifteenth of the floor area of the room. Where a room is air cond itioned, 
these provisions may not apply in the same manner; 
 
 (vi) The roof shall be made of some solid material; 
 
 (vii) The floor of the buildings of the premises should be finished with cement or tiled; 
 
 (viii)  While dust bins shall be placed to collect waste generated in the site, they shall have lids to keep  them 
closed so as to prevent entry of flies or other kinds of insects; 
 
 (ix) Necessary arrangements to comply with the requirements set out in By -law, shall have been put in place in 
order to dispose of waste produced in the premises; 
 
 (x) Furniture used within the premises shall be of proper finish, wherein tables and chairs should be polished off 
in the event of them being built of wood or metal and the top surface of the tables shall have been covered 
with a glass sheet; 
 
 (xi)  A separate section shall be maintained in the premises to wash utensils used; 
 
 (xii)  Separate lavatories and urinals for males and females shall have been provided for the use of the em ployees 
and the customers; 

<!-- page 3 -->

3A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
 (xiii)  A suitable system of drains shall be made available to allow free flow of waste water disposed of fr om any 
section of the premises. Never shall the drains be discharged to a public access way; 
 
 (xiv)  Sufficient fire extinguishing equipment should be provided to the premises. 
 
6. The licensed premises shall be swept at least twice a day and the drains carrying waste water shall be cleaned and 
 washed with water at least twice daily. 
 
7. Pets, such as dogs or cats should not be reared within the premises.  
 
8. The lavatories and urinals at the licensed premises shall be cleaned at least twice a day and disinf ected and                  
 maintained so as to prevent bad smell spreading. 
 
9. To contain foods and handle foods of the premises, specific equipment should be used and they shall be kept in 
 proper cleaned condition.    
 
10. (a) All the waste material produced at the licensed premises shall be   categorized as:—  
 
 (i)  bio degradable waste ; 
 (ii)  glass ; 
 (iii)  paper or paper based materials ; 
 (iv)  polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics ; 
 (v)  iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal ; 
 
Action shall be taken for final disposal of waste collected under the above mentioned process in the  premises in 
accordance to a waste management program in operation within the said area of authority. 
 
11. (a)  Provided  that  the  period  of infection or of incubation of an infectious, contagious or skin  disease has not 
  elapsed no person suffering from such disease or had contacted such a disease in the recent past or had been 
  recently nursing anybody who is suffering from such a disease shall engage himself or employ anybody  or let 
  anybody  else  engage  in  service  in a  licensed  premises  or  as  an   assistant  of  any person   engaged  in 
  service at such a premises. 
 
 (b)  Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engage himself or empl oy                   
  any body else in any form of duty at any licensed premises. 
 
 (c)  It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees engaged at the licensed premises to a me dical test at 
   least once a year. 
 
12. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply aprons to every employee engaged in preparation of fo od or beverages 
 at the licenced place and to ensure that the employees are always wearing these aprons when they are on duty. 
 
13. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to buy a sample of any kind of food kept for sale 
 or displayed for sale in the premises, no licensee shall desist or prevent such purchase. 
 
14. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an officer authorized by the Chairman for a specific period o f time to enter 
 the premises and inspect it, wherein, the licence holder or the caretaker of the premises should make space and  give 
 all the assistance for the inspection. 
 
15. In the event of the premises is maintained in a manner contravening the provisions specified under t his by-law and 
 when the Chairman has made an announcement regarding such contravention, it shall be lawful for the Chairman to 
 annul the issued licence if remedial action is not taken within the specified time period as informe d by the said                 
 announcement.  

<!-- page 4 -->

4 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
16. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence by 
 a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even further 
 and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a writ ten notice 
 drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the maximum 
 of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penal ty stated 
 under   Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.   
 
17. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires - 
 
 “Council” means the Wattala Urban Council; 
 
 “Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala Urban Council;  
 
“Urban Council Area of Authority” means the area in which the Urban Council has been established; 
 
18. In case any inconsistency occurs between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by -law, the Sinhala text shall                   
 prevail.  
 
 
BY-LAW  ON  INSTITUTIONS  PRODUCING  GOODS  RELATING  TO  ALUMINUM  OF 
WATTALA-MABOLA  URBAN  COUNCIL 
 
1. This by -law shall be enforced to allocate provisions to regularize, supervise, control and levy charges on                   
 institutions producing goods relating to Aluminum  within Wattala - Mabola Urban Council area of authority.  
 
2. This by-law shall be cited as the By -law on Institutions Producing Goods Relating to Aluminum within Wattala – 
 Mabola Urban Council.  
 
3. Unless on a licences issued by the Chairman of the Council for the intended purpose, no person shall  maintain an 
 institution producing goods relating to Aluminum within Wattala – Mabola (hereinafter referred to as ‘area of                  
 authority’) Urban Council Area of Authority.  
 
4. Every licence issued under this by-law, unless cancelled earlier, shall be valid up to thirty first of December of the 
 year for which it was issued. 
 
 5. (i)  Every  person  requesting  for a  licence  under  this  by -law  shall  apply  for it by way of an application 
  conforming  to this by-law and obtained from the Council.  
 
 (ii)  The charges for an application under this section shall be the charges decided and declared from time to  
  time by the Council.  
 
6. Charges levied for issuance of a licence under this by-law shall be the charges decided and declared by the Council 
 from time to time by way of a proposal-affirmation.  
 
7. Where there is a permanent building in the premises utilized for the task specified in this by -law, it shall be a               
 building constructed according to a plan approved by the Chairman and unless that premises conforms to the 
 following conditions, no person shall have the right to obtain a licence under this by-law:  
 
 (i) The premises should be of proper renovated condition and constructed in a manner allowing sufficient  air 
  and light into it and every room, when opened, shall consist of windows that have an area of one fif teenth                  
  from floor area of the room;  
 
 (ii) While the height of the walls of all rooms shall not be less than 2.14 Meters and built with bricks,  granite, 
  cabook blocks or cement blocks. Insides of the walls shall have been plastered with cement and the                 
  remaining part plastered with mortar applied with paints.   
 

<!-- page 5 -->

5A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
  (iii) The end of eaves shall be more than 2 Meters above the floor level; 
 
  (iv) The roof shall be made of some solid material; 
 
  (v) All the wood work should be applied with paints.  
 
  (vi) The entire floor should be constructed with some solid material. 
 
  (vii) The premises should be constructed in a manner allowing sufficient water drainage. 
 
  (viii) Sanitary bins and sufficient lavatory facilities shall be provided in the premises. 
 
 (ix) Sufficient fire extinguishing facilities should be provided to the premises. 
 
  (x) There shall be sufficient facilities to park vehicles . 
 
  (xi) First-aid facilities should be provided.  
  
 (xii) Should maintain an accidents list.  
 
8. Every licence holder holding a licence under this by-law:  
 
 (i) Shall maintain the waste collected within the premises in closed bins and not causing  nuisance unti l they 
  are disposed properly.  
 
 (ii) The material required for the industry should be kept stored in the premises without any dangerous o r                 
  harm ful manner.  
 
 (iii) Provided that all the waste material produced at the licenced premises are recycled, action shall be  taken to 
  categorize the waste material under the following categories and maintain them in separate bins., 
 
  (a)  bio degradable waste ; 
 (b)  glass ; 
 (c)  paper; 
 (d)  polythene or plastic ; 
 (e)  iron or other kinds of metal; 
 (f)   hazardous waste ; 
  
 (iv) Employees employed in the institution shall have been provided with face masks, gloves and other req uired 
  safety attire and they should be worn at the time of duty.  
 
 (v) A health insurance program relating to every employee shall be put into operation. Waste disposed  from the 
  premises should be disposed  according to the waste management program implemented by the Council.  
 
 (vi) Equipment used for the manufacturing process shall be maintained under proper maintenance and security. 
 
 (vii) Proposal- reports from a reputed institution about fire protection measures of the premises shall be obtained 
  every six months.  
 
9.  All the material and other required material used for the relevant industry shall be stored without causing bad smell 
 to emanate or causing any nuisance by every licence holder. 
 
10. Every licence holder shall take adequate measures to release the oppressive sounds, steams or gases generated in a 
 production process in his premises to the air at a suitable height and in a manner not to cause oppr essive results 
 when they are dispersed, or shall cause to release them through fire or condensation device. 

<!-- page 6 -->

6 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
11. Every licence holder shall construct sufficient drains in the premises where his business is conduct ed and maintain 
 them properly and wash them daily. 
 
 12. Every licence holder shall construct the floor of the premises with some opaque material and maintain them in good 
 repair and shall cause them to be washed daily. 
 
13. Every licence holder shall paint the said premises annually during the period of conducting his business. 
 
14. Every licence holder shall keep all the tools including equipment and utensils used in the trading activities cleanly. 
 
15. Every licence holder shall take measures to collect in covered utensils the waste generated in his b usiness premises, 
 trimmings and leftover swept and collected, workshop -waste and by -products unless they are used in business 
 activities further, and to remove them daily in the manner prescribed by the Chairman.  
  
16. Every licence holder shall wash and clean the tanks that are used to wash or soak hides or similar m aterials after 
 emptying them to prevent stinking. 
 
17. Every license holder shall ensure that any river, stream, canal, anicut, well, tank or any reservoir will not be polluted 
 by causing certain dirty, odoursome or oppressive water or other  such liquid to be sent down or to flow into a river, 
 stream, canal, anicut, well, tank or any drain or by washing out certain oppressive material in them, or in some other 
 way.  
 
18. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any Officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha specially authorized by the   Chairman for 
 the relevant purpose to enter premises relating to the by -law to inspect whether the relevant premises conforms to 
 the by-law. It shall be the duty of the licence holder or the person in charge of the premises to allow such inspection. 
 
19. Through such an inspection where a licensed premise is found to be non -complying to the provisions of these                  
 by-laws, it shall be lawful for the Chairman to take action to inform the licence holder in writing to accomplish the 
 necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the proper order before a specified time period . It shall be the 
 duty of the licence holder to take action in accordance with the said notice. If he fails to take action accordingly, the 
 Chairman has power to cancel the licence at such an occasion.  
  
20. It shall be the duty of the Chairman on receipt of an application requesting for a licence to carry on any trade, to 
 issue the licence within 30 days of receiving such application by him if the premises is in accordan ce with these  
 by-laws. If the Chairman refuses to issue the licence it shall be his duty to inform the applicant so, along with 
 reasons for his refusal.  
 
21. Every licence holder shall take measures to hang the licence and the list of names and addresses in languages of 
Sinhala and Tamil of the employees engaged in service at the industry or business relevant to the li cence at a 
conspicuous place in the licence holding premises. 
 
22. Every notice issued under this by-law shall be served to the owner or caretaker of the said place as the case may be. 
In the absence of such persons, it shall be pasted on at a place conspicuous at the licenced premise s. It shall not be 
required to state the name of the premises, owner or person using the premises in such notice. 
  
23. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence by 
a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even further 
and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a writ ten notice 
drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the maximum of 
the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penalty stated under 
Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. 
 
24. In this by-law unless the context otherwise requires, 
 
“Council” means Wattala – Mabola Urban Council ; 
“Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council; 

<!-- page 7 -->

7A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
“Urban Council area of authority” means the area in which the Wattala – Mabola Urban Council  has been 
established; 
“An authorized officer of Urban Council,” means the officer/ officers authorized by the Chairman of Wattala – 
Mabola Urban Council  to implement this by-law; 
“Licensee” means any person who has been issued a licence to carry on a trade under these By-laws; 
“Person” includes a group of persons incorporated or unincorporated; 
“Person assigned with control” means a caretaker, protector, caretaker of property, manager or any o ther person 
assigned with the task of organizing, control or management of certain business.  
 
25. In case of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 
 
 
BY-LAW RELATING TO RECEPTION HALLS OF  WATTALA-MABOLA URBAN COUNCIL 
 
1. This by-law shall be enforced to control and levy charges on Reception Halls maintained by the Urban Council   
 within the Urban Council area of authority.  
 
2. This by-law shall be cited as the By-law Relating to Reception Halls within the Urban Council Area of Authority  
 
3. (i)  A person intending to obtain a pass to use a reception hall (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Recepti on Hall’) 
  maintained by the Urban Council, shall forward an application obtained from the Council and duly fil led in 
  accordance to this by-law. 
 
 (ii)  The charges for an application under this section shall be the charges decided and declared from tim e to time 
  by the Council by way of a resolution passed therein.  
 
4. when issuing a pass to a person who forwards an application as stated in 3 rd by-law to use a reception hall,  the 
 Chairman shall not issue a license unless the below mentioned conditions have been fulfilled:—  
 
  (i) Every application requesting a pass to use the reception hall shall be considered in the order such application 
  was received to the Urban Council office.  
 
 (ii) The pass shall be issued only after the payment of reception hall reservation fee and deposit amount as   
  decided and declared by the Urban Council from time to time.  
 
5. Forwarding an application to use a reception hall should be made at least three days prior to the day the  
  reservation is expected to be made.  
 
6. When an applicant needs to cancel the reservation of a reception hall that has been reserved under the provisions of 
 this by law, the Chairman may allow such cancellation subject to the following conditions.   
   
  (i) When the request for the cancellation of reservation is made: 
 
   (a)  Three months before the event, five percent from the fee paid, 
 
  (b)  Two months before the event, ten percent from the fee paid, 
 
  (c)  One month before the event, fifteen percent from the fee paid, 
  
  (d)  Fifteen days before the event, twenty five percent from the fee paid, 
  
  (e)  three days before the event, fifty percent from the fee paid, 
 
  (f)  three days after the event, seventy five percent from the fee paid, should be retained in the Urban Council 
   Fund.  

<!-- page 8 -->

8 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
 (ii) When a reservation is cancelled, the applicant should have the right to obtain the total deposit amo unt paid by 
  him on behalf of such reservation. 
 
7. A reception hall reserved by someone shall not use its stage to other purpose other than the intende d purpose 
 whereas; the materials and property provided to it shall not be used to any other task other than th e task 
 deployed to it.  
 
8. A pass issued to reserve a reception hall shall not be transferred to any other person on any reason.  
 
9. Where permission is not granted to  a request made by a person to reserve a reception hall, informin g the said 
 applicant in writing on the day of the application submission itself and stating the matters for suc h rejection 
 shall be the Chairman’s duty. 
 
10. In case the date of reservation of any reserved reception hall needs to be changed, the applicant ma y make a 
 written request to the Chairman. According to the said request, the amendment of the date reserved s hall be 
 subjected to regulations stipulated in 4th and 5th by-laws herein. 
 
11. Subsequent to using the reception hall allocated for certain task, after deducting, 
 
 (i)  the value of damage, if any damage has been caused to the reception hall or a part thereof,  
 
 (ii) from the deposit amount deposited in the Urban Council, the remaining amount may be paid to the appl icant 
after the fee to be levied on excess time period the reception hall was utilized than the duration reserved for. 
 
12. No person shall damage or cause to damage a reception hall or an equipment thereof; owned by the Urban Council.   
 
13. Utilization of the reception hall shall be subject to reception hall caretaker’s administration and if any antisocial 
 activity or any activity breaks off in the reception hall or in the manner damaging the property of the land in 
 which the reception hall located in, the pass holder shall be responsible to the reception hall mana gement. 
 උƮසව ශාලාව  
 
15.  Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence 
by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even 
further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serve s a written 
notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contrave ntion, the 
maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the addition al 
penalty stated under  Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. 
 
16. In this by-law unless the context otherwise requires, 
 
 “Council” means Wattala – Mabola Urban Council ; 
 
 “Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council; 
 
 “Urban Council area of authority” means the area in which the Wattala – Mabola Urban Council  has been 
established; 
 
17. In case any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail.  
 
 
BY-LAW RELATING TO CHICKEN SELLING CENTERS OF WATTALA-MABOLA URBAN COUNCIL 
 
1. This by -law shall be enforced to regularize, supervise, control and levy charges on chicken selling within 
 Wattala - Mabola Urban Council area of authority.  
 
2. This by-law shall be cited as the By -law Relating to Chicken Selling Centers within Wattala - Mabola Urban 
 Council area of authority. 

<!-- page 9 -->

9A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
3. No person shall use a place for the purpose of selling chicken in Wattala – Mabola Urban Council Area of 
 Authority without a valid licence issued by the Chairman of   Wattala – Mabola Urban Council under the 
 provisions of these by laws.   
 
4. Unless the trading stall requesting a licence under this by -law conforms to the conditions stipulated below, the 
 Chairman shall not issue a license to any person to maintain a chicken selling center:—  
 
 (i). The stall where meat is exhibited for sale shall be laid with tiles or plastered with cement or appl ied 
  with rust proof metal sheets; 
 
 (ii) The floor of the premises where chicken is exhibited for sale and the floor of the stores shall be  
  finished off with cement or laid with tiles ; 
 
 (iii) There shall be drains finished off with cement or laid with tiles with the necessary gradient to facilitate 
  the flow of waste water ; 
 
  (iv) While sufficient precautions shall be put in place to prevent the waste water draining through the drains 
  referred to in paragraph ( 3) flowing to any public source of water, action shall be taken to drain off 
  such waste water to a suction pit ; 
 
  (v) The suction pit put in place to accept waste water shall not be opened to air ; 
 
  (vi) While  containers  sufficient to hold biodegradable waste produced at the meat stall shall be made 
  available whereas  action shall be taken at the end of the day’s sales to ground such waste material  at 
  least 0.5 meters deep in the ground or to dispose such in the manner decided and implemented by the 
  Urban Council from time to time.  
 
 (vii) Sufficient sealed lavatory facilities should be made available for the use of persons employed at th e 
  stall and suitable sanitary facilities and materials should be provided  to be used after utilizing the 
  lavatories. 
 
5. No animal shall be slaughtered at a licenced stall and poultry should not be kept on display at such place.  
 
6. Meat of other animals shall not be sold at the licenced premises under this by-law.  
 
7. At the end of the daily sales of any licensed chicken stall action shall be taken to wash and clean the floor, the 
 tiled or cemented parts of the walls, logs used to cut fish, other utensils and the places exhibitin g the meat for 
 sale with disinfectant fluid. 
 
8. Measures shall be taken to keep the licensed chicken stall and its surrounding drains, all the utens ils and 
 equipments used in chicken storage, preparation or sales in proper repaired condition and without odour. 
 
9. Provided that meat left behind unsold at the conclusion of daily sales at the licensed chicken stall  are stored in a 
 deep freezer and the said deep freezer had been properly activated from the time of storage until th e opening of 
 the stall for sales on the following day meat of chicken left behind unsold shall be sold or exhibit ed for sale or 
 kept in the deep freezer or at the licensed stall on the following day. 
 
10. Where an order is published in the Gazette notification by the proper authority as per provisions of the Butcher’s 
 Ordinance prohibiting slaughtering of animals for meat on certain day at whatever slaughterhouse or at any 
 other place, no meat selling stall shall keep meat on sale or display meat for sale or store meat. 
 
11. Whatever licenced chicken sales center shall be maintained devoid of dogs, cats, rats, insects or an y other 
 animal. 
 
12. Except instruments and containers used for storage or processing or sale of meat no other goods or c lothes or 
 mats used for sleeping or any other material shall be kept at the licensed stall. 

<!-- page 10 -->

10 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
13. Action shall be taken to keep drinking water in sufficient quantities for the use of employees servi ng in the 
 licensed premises. 
 
14. (1)  Provided that the period of infection or of incubation of a infectious, contagious or skin disease has not 
  elapsed no person suffering from such disease or had contacted such a disease in the recent past or had 
  been recently nursing anybody who is suffering from such a disease shall engage himself or employ 
  anybody or let anybody else engage in any form of sale or as an assistant of any person engaged in sale 
  at any meat stall. 
 
 (2)  Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engage himself or  
  employ anybody else in any form of sale at a meat stall.  
 
 (3)  It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees deployed at the meat stall to a medical test at 
  least once a year. 
 
15. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety facemasks, gloves and other safety materials necessary to the 
 employees and to ensure that they are wearing these safety materials at every time they are on duty at the meat 
 stall. 
 
16. It shall be the duty of the licensee to provide soap or soap fluid for the use of all persons employ ed at the 
 licensed premises. 
 
 17. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to buy a sample of any kind of meat kept for 
 sale or displayed for sale or stored inside the premises of any meat stall, no licensee shall desist or prevent such 
 purchase. 
 
18. (1)  Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are recycled, action shall be taken  
  to categorize the waste material under the categories. - 
 
 (i)  bio degradable waste ; 
 (ii)  glass ; 
 (iii)  paper or paper based materials ; 
 (iv)  polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics ; 
 (v)  iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal ; 
 (vi)  left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process or by products or other parts 
  produced in the production line ; 
 (vii)  dangerous waste ; 
 
 and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that they are put in separate containers or tanks put in place for that 
 purpose. 
 
 (2)  Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks having being categorized in the manner set out in  Sub-
  section (1)  above  is  disposed  of  under the programme of waste management launched by the Urban 
  Council, the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribed by the Chairman. 
 
 19. The appropriate time for inspection of the provisions of the by -laws in this part by the Chairman or by an 
 Authorized Officer shall mean any occasion chicken sales are done at the chicken-stall. 
 
 20. In the event of the premises where sale of chicken is carried on under a licence issued under the by -laws of this 
 part fails to maintain it in accordance with any one of the provisions set out in Section 04 or cont ravenes the 
 provisions of any by-law of the by-laws set out in this part the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the 
 said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the p rescribed 
 position before a specified date. 
 

<!-- page 11 -->

11A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
21 Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in Section 19 shall act in the manner prescribed in th e notice 
 before the date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable reasons have been forwarded in writing, the 
 Chairman shall have the power to extend the date specified in the said notice. However, the period o f such 
 extension shall not exceed more than fourteen days. 
 
22. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in Section 20 fails to act in accordance with the  manner set 
 out in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the date extended it shall be lawful fo r the Chairman 
 to cancel the licence issued to that premises. 
 
23. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence 
 by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even 
 further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serve s a written 
 notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contrave ntion, the 
 maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the addition al 
 penalty stated under  Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. 
 
24. In this by-law unless the context otherwise requires, 
 
 “Council” means Wattala – Mabola Urban Council ; 
 
 “Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council; 
 
 “Urban Council area of authority” means the area in which the Wattala – Mabola Urban Council  has been 
 established; 
 
25. In case any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 
 
BY  LAW  ON  STORE- KEEPING  PLACES  WITHIN  WATTALA – MABOLA  URBAN  COUNCIL 
 
1. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize, supervise, control and levy charges on store -keeping places within 
 Wattala - Mabola Urban Council area of authority.  
 
2. This by-law shall be cited as the By-law on Store-keeping Places within Wattala – Mabola Urban Council Area 
 of Authority (hereinafter referred to as the ‘area of authority’)  
 
3. Unless on a licence issued by the Chairman for the intended purpose, no person shall maintain a stor e-keeping 
 place (hereinafter referred to as ‘premises’) within the Urban Council area of authority.  
 
4. (i)  Every person applying for a licence shall apply for it under an application confirming to this by -law 
  and obtained from the Council.  
 
 (ii)  The charges for an application under Sub -section (i) above shall be the charges decided and declared 
  from time to time by the Council.  
 
05. Charges levied for issuance of a licence under this by -law shall be the charges decided and declared by the 
 Council from time to time by way of a proposal-affirmation.  
 
06. Every licence issued shall be valid up to 31 st of December of the year for which it had been issued unless it is 
 cancelled earlier. 
 
07. Unless the premises in which the service is maintained conforms to the following conditions, no pers on shall 
 have a right to obtain a licence under this by-law.  
 
 (a) Should  be  buildings  built  as  per  an  approved  plan  for  the  intended  purpose under the Urb an 
  Development Authority Act. 

<!-- page 12 -->

12 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
 (b) The premises should be provided with fire extinguishing facilities 
 
 (c) Sufficient sanitary facilities should be provided within the premises. 
 
 (d) Closed bins should be maintained to dispose the waste collected in the premises and it has been built in 
  a manner enabling easy disposal. 
 
 (e) Sufficient first-aid facilities should be provided to employees engaging in work in the premises.  
 
 (f) Measures should be taken to control the breeding of insects and other animals within the premises.   
 (g) Every  premises  should have access ways of sufficient width, whereas, the person applying for the 
  licence should have a right to enter the premises in the relevant access way. 
 
 (h) Facilities should be provided to store various goods to be stored separately and safely.  
 
08. Every licence holder holding a licence under this by-law, 
 
 (i)  shall store all materials necessary for carrying on the trade in such a manner that no offensive odo urs 
  will emanate from them or create any nuisance.   
 (ii)  when  taking  away things that can cause offensive odours or nuisances from the licensed premises 
  along  public  thoroughfares,  shall  take them in closed non -absorbent vessels to prevent odours or 
  nuisances. 
 
  (iii)  shall  take  adequate  measures  to  release the  oppressive  sounds, steams  or  gases generated in  a 
  production  process  in  his  premises  to  the  air at a  suitable  height and in a manner not to c ause 
  oppressive results when they are dispersed, or shall cause to release them through fire or condensation 
  device. 
 
 (iv)  shall construct sufficient drains in the premises where his business is conducted and maintain them 
  properly and wash them daily. 
 
  (v)  shall construct the floor of the premises with some opaque material and maintain them in good repair  
  and shall cause them to be washed daily 
 
  (vi)  shall dispose the waste collected in the premises according to the waste management program of the 
  Council. 
 
 (vii)  should not repair machinery within the premises. 
 
 (viii)  shall paint the said premises annually during the period of conducting his business.  
 
 (ix)  shall keep all the tools including equipment and utensils used in the trading activities cleanly. 
 
 (x)  shall  take  measures  to  collect  in  covered  utensils the waste generated in his business premis es, 
  trimmings and leftover swept and collected, workshop -waste and by-products unless they are used in 
  business activities further and to remove them daily in the manner prescribed by the Urban Council. 
 
9. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any Officer of the Urban Council specially authorized by the   Chairman 
 for the relevant purpose to enter premises during official hours and to inspect the premises. It sha ll be the duty 
 of the licence holder or the person in charge of the premises to allow such inspections. 
 
10. Through such an inspection where a licensed premise is found to be non -complying to the provisions of these 
 by-laws, it shall be lawful for the Chairman to take action to inform the licence holder in writing to accomplish 
 the necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the proper order before a specified time pe riod. It shall 
 be the duty of the licence holder to take action in accordance with the said notice. If he fails to take action 
 accordingly, the Chairman has the power to cancel the licence at such an occasion. 
 
 11. It shall be the duty of the Chairman on receipt of an application requesting for a licence to carry on any trade, to 
 issue the licence within 30 days of receiving such application by him if the premises is in accordance with these 

<!-- page 13 -->

13A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
 by-laws. If the Chairman refuses to issue the licence it shall be his duty to inform the applicant so, along with 
 reasons for his refusal. 
 
12. Every licence holder shall take measures to hang the licence and the list of names and addresses in languages of 
 Sinhala and Tamil of the employees engaged in service at the industry or business relevant to the li cence, at a 
 conspicuous place in the licence holding premises. 
 
 
 13. Every notice issued under this by-law shall be served to the owner or caretaker of the said place as the case may 
 be. In the absence of such persons, it shall be hanged on at a place conspicuous at the licenced premises. It shall 
 not be required to state the name of the premises owner or person using the premises in such notice.  
 
14. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence 
 by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even 
 further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serve s a written 
 notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contrave ntion, the 
 maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the addition al 
 penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. 
 
15. In this by-law unless the context otherwise requires, 
 
 “Council” means Wattala – Mabola Urban Council ; 
 
 “Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council; 
 
 “Urban Council area of authority” means the area in which the Wattala – Mabola Urban Council  has been 
established; 
 
 “An authorized officer of Urban Council,” means the officer/ officers authorized by the Chairman of Wattala – 
Mabola Urban Council  to implement this by-law; 
 
  “Person assigned with control” means an officer or officers authorized by the Chairman of  Wattala – Mabola 
Urban Council  to implement this by-law.  
 
 “Licensee” means any person who has been issued a licence to carry on a trade under these By-laws; 
 
 “Person” includes a group of persons incorporated or unincorporated; 
 
 “Person assigned with control” means a caretaker, protector, caretaker of property, manager or any other person 
assigned with the task of organizing, control or management of certain business. 
 
16. In case of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail.  
 
 
BY LAW  ON  SLAUGHTERHOUSES  WITHIN  WATTALA – MABOLA  URBAN  COUNCIL 
 
1. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize, supervise, control and levy charges on slaughterhouses situated  in 
 Wattala - Mabola Urban Council area of authority.  
 
2. This by -law shall be cited as the By -law on Slaughterhouses established within Wattala – Mabola Urban 
 Council Area of Authority. 
 
3. Every slaughterhouse maintained within Wattala –Mabola Urabn Council Area of Authority (hereinafter 
 referred to as ‘area of authority’) shall be maintained under the custody of a Slaughterhouse caretaker. 
 
4. Except within the times prescribed by the proper authority in advance, no licenced slaughterer shoul d be 
 allowed to slaughter animals within the slaughterhouse.  

<!-- page 14 -->

14 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
5. A licenced butcher shall slaughter animals only in the place allocated to the said slaughterer by th e 
 slaughterhouse caretaker within the slaughterhouse. 
 
6. No animal should be slaughtered unless a permit had been issued to kill the said animal by the Divis ional 
 Medical Health Officer or an officer authorized by him after inspecting the said animal. 
 
7. The permit  issued under above Sub-section 6 shall be valid up to 7 days from the date of issue. 
 
8. A document proving the prior ownership of every animal slaughtered should be in possession of the 
 slaughterhouse caretaker and he shall keep in his possession a document containing the nature of the  animal, 
 details of prior ownership as well as all the other details stated in a format approved by the Urban Council. 
 
 (a) A person  failing  to  forward the following confirmations to the Slaughterhouse Caretaker prior to 
  entering an animal to the slaughterhouse should not be permitted to enter the animal 
 
 a.  Certificate of identification 
 b.  Fitness certificate 
 c. permit 
 
9. Animals brought into the slaughterhouse or retained therein should be properly bound with ropes to p revent 
 them from fleeing. If not, other security measures should have been taken.  
 
10. Every licenced butcher should document the names of the employees who wish to be employed in the bus iness 
 of Slaughterhouse as butchers in the Urban Council office. Registration or rejection of certain name , 
 cancellation of a name that has already been registered may be performed by the Chairman or by an of ficer 
 authorized by him. Any such person unregistered or name -cancelled thus, shall not be deployed in the service 
 by a registered butcher. 
 
11. Every licenced butcher shall handover a certified copy of his licence and a certified copy of a regi stration 
 certificate of every employee deployed in the slaughterhouse by him to the slaughterhouse caretaker as soon as 
 they are obtained. 
 
12. Hides, guts and discarding parts of slaughtered animals shall be collected by the slaughterer or by his employees 
 in places allocated for that task to be washed and cleaned before they are removed. 
 
13. With regard to any damage caused to the slaughterhouse by activities of the licenced butcher or his registered 
 employees when the slaughterhouse is used by them, the registered butcher shall hold the responsibil ity and he 
 should pay the loss incurred therein. If payment of the amount is defaulted, the Chairman may cancel  the 
 licence or charge the value of the loss from the registered butcher or his guarantors or exercise bo th such 
 penalties.  
 
14. A person suffering from certain skin disease, leprosy, infectious or contagious disease shall not be  allowed 
 inside the slaughterhouse by the slaughterhouse caretaker. 
 
15. It shall be lawful to decide and levy charges on animals for the following stated tasks on one anima l by the 
 Council by way of a resolution passed at the Council from time to time. 
  
             (1)  To use slaughterhouses    
  (a)  cattle (except buffaloes)  
 
  (b)  swine and goats 
 
 (2)  Feeding the cattle (for a time period of twenty four hours or part thereof) 
 
  (a)  cattle (except buffaloes) 
 
   (b)    swine and goats 

<!-- page 15 -->

15A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
(3)   to utilize the shed  
 
 (a)  cattle (except buffaloes)  
 
 
   (b)    swine and goats 
 
16. An animal retained in the slaughterhouse owing to the reason of defaulting payments, the Chairman ma y cause 
 that animal to be sold at public auction by publicizing two days before such auction if the relevant  fees are not 
 paid further. From the money received by selling thus, after retaining certain charges receivable on  behalf of 
 that animal and any charges incurred on it, the remaining amount, if there be any, should be paid, o n his 
 request,  to the person who brought the animal to the slaughterhouse to be slaughtered. If the person who 
 brought the animal to the slaughterhouse fails to claim the relevant money within one year of selling the animal 
 in public auction, such money shall be credited to the Council Fund.  
 
17. Slaughtering an animal found to be unfit for human consumption owing to it being sick or due to any other 
 reason, it shall be lawful to prohibit slaughtering of such animal by the slaughterhouse caretaker o r by 
 Divisional Health Officer even if a permit has been issued or not issued by then to slaughter that a nimal. 
 Further, no person shall slaughter such animal.  
 
18. The person who brought in an animal refused to be issued with a permit for slaughtering or an animal  
 prohibited to be slaughtered, shall remove that animal within twelve hours of such refusal to issue pass or 
 prohibition of slaughtering. If he defaults removing the said animal from slaughterhouse, measures s hall be                  
  taken as per provisions stated in by 1aw. 
 
19. Unless under a format issued by the Council and in possession of a permit issued by the Chairman or an officer 
 authorized by him, no person shall remove and take meat, hide, guts or discarded meat of an animal slaughtered 
 in a public slaughterhouse. Any person removing and taking such meat, skin, guts or discarded meat s hould 
 handover the permit when requested by some officer of the Urban Council.                                 
 
20. No dog shall be allowed inside the slaughterhouse and owner or caretaker of a dog shall not bring th at dog into 
 the slaughterhouse or let it enter the slaughterhouse on any grounds. All the dogs found inside a slaughterhouse 
 should be considered as stray dogs. 
 
21. No licenced butcher or his registered employee or any other person let inside the slaughterhouse shall not make 
 certain noise in the slaughterhouse, create uproar or quarrel or use abusive, insulting or indecent words. 
 
22. Provided that a special licence has been obtained from the proper authority, killing of any animal w ithin the 
 area of urban council authority by a person not being a licenced butcher shall not be legal and a pe rson who 
 obtains such special licence shall not carry on that slaughtering other than at the place stated in the licence or 
 under the conditions stipulated in the said licence.  
 
23. Every slaughterhouse should be cleaned by washing twice a day and it shall be the duty of slaughterh ouse 
 caretaker to maintain it under proper maintenance.  
 
24. Where an animal approved as above for slaughtering found to be contacted by an illness subsequent to  its 
 slaughtering, or observed that it is not fit for human consumption, measures shall be taken by the C hairman or 
 any other authorized person to prevent it from being utilized for human consumption. The decision taken by the 
 Veterinary Officer or Medical Health Officer in this regard shall be the final decision. When action  is taken 
 thus, no party has the right to ask for compensation.  
 
25. In the process of animal slaughtering, skinning and carving, the butchers shall not let any person e nter the 
 slaughterhouse other than their assistants, Urban Council officers attached to the slaughtering and authorized 
 persons.  
 
26. All the discarded meat left at the slaughterhouse by butchers or their assistants or other waste sho uld be 
 disposed without causing any nuisance. 
 
27. No person shall take meat of whatever animal to the outside of the slaughterhouse unless it is cover ed without 
 exposing it to sunlight, dust, rain and the public. 

<!-- page 16 -->

16 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
28. Contravention of any provisions of this By-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence 
 by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even 
 further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serve s a written 
 notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contrave ntion, the 
 maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the addition al 
 penalty stated under  Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. 
 
29. In this By-law unless the context otherwise requires, 
 
 “Council” means Wattala – Mabola Urban Council ; 
 
 “Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council; 
 
 “Urban Council area of authority” means the area in which the Wattala – Mabola Urban Council  has been 
established; 
 
 “Authorized Officer” means an officer assigned with authority by the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban 
Council . 
 
 “Proper Authority” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council or person authorized by him. 
 
 “Slaughterhouse Caretaker” means a person appointed to take care of the slaughterhouse or person maintaining 
a slaughterhouse. 
 
 “Animals” includes the same interpretation given in “Butchers’ Ordinance”. 
 
30. In case any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this By-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 
 
 
BY-LAW  RELATING  TO  MAINTENANCE  OF  WATER  SERVICES  OF  
WATTALA – MABOLA  URBAN COUNCIL 
 
01. This by-law is  enforced to allocate provisions to implement a drinking water scheme by  Wattala - Mabola 
 Urban Council, matters consequential to it including levying charges relevant to it. 
 
02. This by-law shall be cited as the By -law Relating to Maintenance of Water Services within Wattala – Mabola 
 Urban Council.  
 
03. It shall be lawful for the Wattala – Mabola Urban Council (hereinafter referred to as the ‘area of authority’) to 
 maintain a drinking water supplying facility within Wattala – Mabola Urban Council area of authority on behalf 
 of the water requirement of the area as decided by the Council and under identified areas. 
 
04. Charges to be levied for the services maintained by the Council under the above section, shall be de cided and 
 declared by time to time by the Council by a resolution passed therein.  
 
05. Every person intending to obtain water facilities under the water supply scheme implemented by Watta la – 
 Mabola Urban Council (hereinafter referred to as the ‘service’), shall request from the Chairman for the facility 
 by way of a duly filled application obtained from the Council.  
 
06. When providing a private water connection or when changing the already given water connection, the expenses 
 estimated by the Council should be borne by the applicant. Based on the applicant’s poverty, the exp enses 
 incurred in providing a water connection may be exempted by way of a resolution passed in the Council.  
  
07. An active stop valve of the brand approved by the Chairman or the officer authorized by him should b e 
 provided for all the private water service connection and it shall be fixed as close as possible to the place where 
 the said water service is supplied. A chamber and a lid should be provided to it to enable access to  such valve 
 all the time. 

<!-- page 17 -->

17A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
08. No pipeline, valve or other fixation, being a part of private water supply connection built anew, sh all not be 
 closed down until inspection by the Chairman of Local Government Authority or his authorized officer  and 
 approved by way of a written document.  
 
09. (i) No  pipeline  shall be laid close to certain waste drain, drain or cesspit or septic tank or a ash p it or 
  manur e pit,  or  through  such place, or   touching   such  place. However,  except  in  unavoidabl e 
  circumstances, no such pipeline should be laid through some dirty soil or cause to be surrounded by 
  harmful matter causing the pipelines to deteriorate untimely or let pipelines touch such matter.  
 
 (ii)  Where it is  unavoidable that such pipeline be sent through dirty soil or other harmful material, th e 
  pipeline   should  be  prevented  contacting  such soil or  matter  by  way of  sending  it through  an 
  anticorrosive  pipe or  by  any other  suitable  method  approved  by the  Head of local government 
  authority or his authorized officer.  
  
10. (i)  All the  pipes  used  for  construction  of a  private water service connection should be of polyvin yl 
  chloride or polythene or galvanize coated iron or cast iron plated with Bitumin mixture by any other  
  material under the approval of National Water Supply and Drainage Board, while an officer auhorized 
  by the Chairman shall approve that they are of relevant density, quality and strength as specified in the 
  next paragraph herein. 
 
 (ii)  All the Polycinyl Chloride pipes (P.V.C) shall accord to No. 147:1993 of Sri Lanka Quality Standards  
  or  amendment made to it from time to time. The SLS mark should be contained in the water pipes 
  produced in Sri Lanka. All the joints and fittings of P.V.C. pipes shall accord to No. 659 of Sri Lankan 
  Standards 1993 or to Part I and II of No. 4346 of British Quality Standards 1970, or to amendments 
  made to them from time to time.  
 
 (iii)  All the Polyethylene pipes used to construct private water service connection should accord to No. 
  6572 of British National Standard of 1985 or to amendments made to it from time to time or any other 
  national  standard. Pipes  used  on  the  surface of  ground should accord to No. 6730 of 1986 or to  
  amendments made to it from time to time or any other national standard. 
 
  (iv)  All the galvanize coated iron pipes used to construct a private water service connection shall accord to 
  No. 1387 of British Standards of 1985 or to amendments made to it from time to time. 
 
 (v)  water pipes  of other brand or other types of water pipes used on the spot should be pipes that have  
  received  the  approval of the Water Supplies and Drainage Board as conducive to supply drinking 
  water and accord to accepted national or international standard. 
 
11. The meter deployed to measure the water volume supplied to certain place under water services, and i ts 
 installation and maintenance charges shall be borne by the applicant.  
 
12. Considering the difference between the first meter reading and final meter reading, the quantity con sumed 
 within the relevant month should be calculated as follows. 
 
  (a)  Regarding a meter fixed anew, its first reading is the reading taken at the time of its fixation, wh ereas 
  in  another  occasion,  the  final  reading  of  the  previous  month  become  the first reading for  the 
  subsequent month. The final reading for a month shall be the reading taken on a date not exceeding 10 
  days after the lapse of that month. However, where the meter is removed and taken away for repairs 
  making it difficult to take the final reading, the final reading shall be taken before the said mete r is 
  removed and taken away.  
 
 (b)  Where two or more than two meters are used in one place within a month, the total of all the meters 
  should be the amount of water consumed within the month.  
 
13. It shall be lawful for the Council, to serve at the end of every calendar month, a clearly prepared bill to its 
 consumers as per provisions stated in this by-law  and charge a fee from every owner or resident of every house 

<!-- page 18 -->

18 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
 or consumer place based on the water volume consumed by them and according to charges decided and 
 declared by the Council. 
 
14. If a resident of a particular place questions about the accuracy of the meter deployed in the water service 
 obtained to his place, based on that resident’s request and upon payment in advance of an inspection  fee 
 prescribed by the relevant Council, the relevant meter should caused to be inspected by an officer authorized by 
 the Council in the presence of the resident or representative authorized by him. This inspector shou ld possess 
 technical skills approved by the National Water Board. The results of the said inspection should sat isfy the 
 resident and according to those inspection results, the meter should be corrected. 
 
15. (i)  A person expecting to obtain a private water service, subsequent to forwarding an application under 
  this by-law  having  stated  the  intended purpose of the water service, and, after being decided by a 
  Council resolution that the request can be accomplished, the relevant private water service should b e 
  provided.  
 
 (ii)  When performing the task of the request made to the Council for obtaining a private water service, i f 
  the Council, based on technical reports, decides that the total  water supply service may get affected in 
  terms of continuous and proper supply of water, if the requested water service were to be provided, the 
  Council may decline the accomplishment of that request. In case of such refusal, having mentioned the 
  reasons for such refusal, the applicant may be replied within 30 days from such decision taking.  
 
 (iii)  (a)  A private water service receiving customer shall not use the water received from the private 
   water service to any other task other than the   tasks mentioned in his application. 
       
   (b)  Consequent  to  being  reported  that Section iii (a) of this part is violated with regard to a 
   private water  service and when a notice has already been served in relation to that, if that 
   violation continues further, the relevant water service may be terminated after a notice served 
   in advance.  
 
 (iv)  All the water service connections obtained without due approval of the Council deemed to be illegal 
  water  services  and  when  complaints  are received about such services,  termination of that water  
  service  after  inspection  may be  carried out by the  relevant  Chairman  or  an officer of  the l ocal 
  government authority authorized by him.  
 
16. At anytime it was learnt that water is wasted through a tap, pipe, meter or any other fixation which being a part 
 of a private water service, either the Chairman or an officer may immediately terminate such water s ervice and 
 it shall not be reconnected until the reason for such leakage is rectified by the owner or resident of the place. 
 
17. Subsequent to providing a private water service, if a complaint is made to the relevant local govern ment 
 authority by the relevant customer or any other person that the water is wasted through a part of th e water 
 service such as; a tap, pipe, meter or other fixation when the said service is maintained and enviro nmental 
 damage or health threat is caused as a result, the power to inspect about such complaint lies with t he Head of 
 the relevant local government authority or his authorized officer.  
 
18. Constant attention should be paid to the purity of water sources used by the local government author ity for 
 water supply schemes, their proper existence and security, whereas, they shall be cleaned according to the 
 standards and instructions specified by the National Water Supply and Drainage Board at least every three 
 months. 
 
19. In every occasion of constructing water supply schemes; their continuing, maintaining, service expan ding and 
 fee levying by the Council, it shall be bound to provide services based on the principle of justice in order to 
 satisfy minimum water requirements of every person and ethnic group who should receive service from the said 
 water supply scheme.  
 
20. The head of the local government authority or person authorized by him for the task of inspecting the condition 
 of pipes and fixtures of the water supply work; to definitely learn whether the water is wasted or u sed illegally, 

<!-- page 19 -->

19A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
 may enter the relevant place or building at any time within 8.00 a.m. to 5.00 p.m. after giving a no tification of 
 not less than one hour. 
 
21. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence 
 by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even 
 further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serve s a written 
 notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contrave ntion, the 
 maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the addition al 
 penalty stated under  Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. 
 
22. In this by-law unless the context otherwise requires, 
 
 “Council” means Wattala – Mabola Urban Council; 
 
 “Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council; 
 
 “Urban Council area of authority” means the area in which the Wattala – Mabola Urban Council  has been 
 established; 
 
 “An authorized officer of Urban Council,” means the officer/ officers authorized by the Chairman of Wattala – 
 Mabola Urban Council  to implement this by-law; 
 
 “Licence holder” means any person who has been issued a licence to carry on a trade under these By-laws; 
 
 “Person” includes a group of persons incorporated or unincorporated; 
 
 “Person assigned with control” means a caretaker, protector, caretaker of property, manager or any other person 
 assigned with the task of organizing, control or management of certain business.  
 
 
23. In case of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail.  
 
 
BY LAW TO CONTROL AND LEVY CHARGES ON PIPE LAYING AND UNDERGROUND CABLE 
DRAWING ACTIVITIES OF WATTALA – MABOLA URBAN COUNCIL 
 
01. This by -law shall be enforced to control pipe laying, cable drawing and excavation activities by various  
 government institutions, semi -government institutions, corporations, boards, companies and persons  in 
 thoroughfares maintained by the Urban Council  within Wattala - Mabola Urban Council area of authority and 
 to levy charges on such activities.  
 
02. This by law shall be cited as the By law to Control and Levy Charges on Pipe Laying and Underground Cable 
 Drawing Activities of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council.  
 
03. Without possessing a permit obtained after payment of a fee decided by the Wattala – Mabola Urban Council 
 under this by-law, no person or institution shall not carry any excavation activity in any thoroughfare under  the 
 control of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council.  
 
04. Prior to carrying out a pipe laying or underground cable drawing or other excavation activity in connection to a 
 thoroughfare subjected under the authority of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council by any institution or person, a 
 permit relevant to such activity should be obtained after forwarding to the Chairman an application that 
 conforms to this by law.  
 
05. Subsequent to recovering from the deposit amount the amount of money spent to restore council’s dama ged 
 property, damaged as a result of accomplishing the task mentioned in the permit, it there be any residual money 
 in the deposit amount, such residual money should be released to the person claiming for such deposit amount.   
 
06. When underground excavations are carried out to lay pipes or draw underground cables under this by l aw, 
 damages should not be made to a thoroughfare, relevant drain, side wall of a drain, abutment wall, c ulvert, 

<!-- page 20 -->

20 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
 causeway, dam, bridge, signal post, mile post or to any support constructed on the road for safety o r any other 
 thing constructed for public safety and use. 
 
07. Under this by law, if underground excavation activity needs to be carried out again for repairing wo rk of 
 underground pipes or cables, the relevant institution or person shall obtain a permit after paying a  fee. Therein, 
 as per provisions in this by law, a permit should be obtained again.  
  
08. At a place where pipes and cables cannot be fixed underground, on the instructions and supervision o f an 
 officer authorized by the Chairman,  such pipes and cables can be laid on the surface, close to the ground at a 
 most suitable place on road, in a manner not obstructing a street or streets nor causing nuisance to the public. 
 
09. No person holding the permit shall lay underground pipes or cables obstructing the easy flow of water in a drain 
 located in the thoroughfare.  
 
10. As soon as the excavation work is concluded, or, within two weeks, the excavation area should be res tored 
 strongly by the permit holder or institution.  
 
11. Suitable actions from among the ones mentioned below shall be taken by the permit holder to minimize  
 travelling and transportation obstructions until restoration of excavation area as specified in this Section.  
 
 (i) Removal of excavated soil, 
 (ii) Deploying a red flag or any other danger indicating sign,  
 (iii) Deploying red color lights at night time, , 
 (iv) Naming alternative routes, 
 (v) Deploying watchers, 
 (vi) Erecting danger indicating boards, 
 (vii) Other proper actions.  
 
12. In these By-laws unless the context otherwise requires, 
 
 “Council” means Wattala – Mabola Urban Council; 
 “Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council; 
 “Urban Council area of authority” means the area in which the Wattala – Mabola Urban Council  has been 
 established; 
 “An authorized officer of Urban Council,” means the officer/ officers authorized by the Chairman of Wattala – 
 Mabola Urban Council  to implement this by-law; 
 “Licence holder” means any person who has been issued a licence to carry on a trade under these By-laws; 
 “Person” includes a group of persons incorporated or unincorporated; 
 “Person assigned with control” means a caretaker, protector, caretaker of property, manager or any other person 
 assigned with the task of organizing, control or management of certain business. 
 
13. In case of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail.  
 
 
 
BY LAW RELATING TO TYRE TUBE WALKANIZING PLACES AND BATTERY STORING AND 
REPAIRING PLACES OF WATTALA – MABOLA URBAN COUNCIL 
 
1. This by-law shall be enforced to allocate provisions to regularize, supervise, control and levy charges on t yre 
 tube walkanizing places, battery storing and repairing places within Wattala - Mabola Urban Council area of 
 authority.  
 
2. This by-law shall be cited as the By -law on Places for Tyre Tube Walkanizing, Battery Storing and Repairing 
 within Wattala – Mabola Urban Council.  

<!-- page 21 -->

21A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
3. Unless on a licence issued by the Chairman of the Council for the intended purpose, no person shall maintain 
 tyre walkanizing places or battery storing and repairing places within Wattala – Mabola (hereinafter referred to 
 as ‘area of authority’) Urban Council Area of Authority.  
 
4. Every licence issued under this by-law, unless cancelled earlier, shall be valid up to thirty first of December of 
 the year for which it was issued. 
 
5. (i)  Every  person requesting for a licence under this by -law shall apply for it by way of an application 
  conforming to this by-law and obtained from the Council.  
 
 (ii)  The charges for an application under this section shall be the charges decided and declared from tim e 
  to time by the Council.  
 
6. Charges levied for issuance of a licence under this by -law shall be the charges decided and declared by the 
 Council from time to time by way of a proposal-affirmation.  
 
7. Where there is a permanent building in the premises utilized for the task specified in this by -law, it shall be a 
 building constructed according to a plan approved by the Chairman and unless that premises conforms to the 
 following conditions, no person shall have the right to obtain a licence under this by-law.  
 
. (i) The premises should be of proper renovated condition and constructed in a manner allowing sufficient  
  air and  light into it and every room, when opened, shall consist of windows that have an area of one 
  fifteenth from floor area of the room.  
 
 (ii) While  the  height of the walls of all rooms shall not be less than 2.14 Meters and built with brick s, 
  granite, cabook blocks or cement blocks. Insides of the walls shall have been plastered with cement 
  and the remaining part plastered with mortar applied with paints.   
 
  (iii) The end of eaves shall be more than 2 Meters above the floor level; 
 
  (iv) The roof shall be made of some solid material; 
 
  (v) All the wood work should be applied with paints.  
 
  (vi) The entire floor should be constructed with some solid material. 
 
  (vii) The premises should be constructed in a manner allowing sufficient water drainage. 
 
  (viii) Sanitary bins and sufficient lavatory facilities shall be provided in the premises. 
 
 (ix) Sufficient fire extinguishing facilities should be provided to the premises. 
 
  (x) There shall be sufficient facilities to park vehicles  
 
  (xi) First-aid facilities should be provided.  
 
 (xii) Should maintain an accidents list.  
 
8. Every licence holder holding a licence under this by-law:  
 
 (viii) Shall maintain the waste collected within the premises in closed bins and not causing nuisance until  
  they are disposed properly.  
 
 (ix) The material required for the industry should be kept stored in the premises without any  
 dangerous or harmful manner.  
 
 (x) Provided  that all the waste material produced at the licenced premises are recycled, action shall b e 
  taken to categorize the waste material under the following categories and maintain them in separate 
  bins., 

<!-- page 22 -->

22 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
  (a)  bio degradable waste ; 
 (b)  glass ; 
 (c)  paper; 
 (d)  polythene or plastic ; 
 (e)  iron or other kinds of metal; 
 (f)  hazardous waste ; 
 (xi) Employees employed in the institution shall have been provided with face masks, gloves and other 
  required safety attire and they should be worn at the time of duty.  
 
 (xii) A health insurance program relating to every employee shall be put into operation Waste disposed  
  from the premises should be disposed  according to the waste management program implemented by 
  the Council. 
 
 (xiii) Equipment used for the manufacturing process shall be maintained under proper maintenance and  
  security. 
 
 (xiv) Proposal- reports from a reputed institution about fire protection measures of the premises  
 shall be obtained every six months.  
 
9. All the material and other required material used for the relevant industry shall be stored without causing bad 
 smell to emanate or causing any nuisance by every licence holder. 
 
10. Every licence holder shall take adequate measures to release the oppressive sounds, steams or gases generated 
 in a production process in his premises to the air at a suitable height and in a manner not to cause  oppressive 
 results when they are dispersed, or shall cause to release them through fire or condensation device. 
 
11. Every licence holder shall construct sufficient drains in the premises where his business is conduct ed and 
 maintain them properly and wash them daily. 
 
 12. Every licence holder shall construct the floor of the premises with some opaque material and maintai n them in 
 good repair and shall cause them to be washed daily. 
 
13. Every licence holder shall paint the said premises annually during the period of conducting his business. 
 
14. Every licence holder shall keep all the tools including equipment and utensils used in the trading a ctivities 
 cleanly. 
 
15. Every licence holder shall take measures to collect in covered utensils the waste generated in his b usiness 
 premises, trimmings and leftover swept and collected, workshop-waste and by-products unless they are used in 
 business activities further, and to remove them daily in the manner prescribed by the Chairman.  
  
16.  Every licence holder shall wash and clean the tanks that are used to wash or soak hides or similar materials after 
  emptying them to prevent stinking. 
 
17.  Every licence holder shall ensure that any  river, stream, canal, anicut, well, tank or any reservoi r will not be 
   polluted by causing certain dirty, odoursome or oppressive water or other  such liquid to be sent down or to flow 
  into a river, stream, canal, anicut, well, tank or any drain or by washing out certain oppressive ma terial in them, 
  or in some other way.  
 
18.   It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any Officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha specially authorized by the   Chairman 
   for the relevant purpose to enter premises relating to the by -law  to  inspect  whether  the  relevant  premises 
   conforms to the by-law. It shall be the duty of the licence holder or the person in charge of the premises to allow 
  such inspection. 

<!-- page 23 -->

23A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
19.  Through such an inspection where a licensed premise is found to be non-complying to the provisions of these by
  -laws, it shall be lawful for the Chairman to take action to inform the licence holder in writing to accomplish the 
  necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the proper order before a specified time period. It shall be the 
  duty of the licence holder to take action in accordance with the said notice. If he fails to take ac tion accordingly, 
  the Chairman has power to cancel the licence at such an occasion.  
  
20. It shall be the duty of the Chairman on receipt of an application requesting for a licence to carry on any trade, to 
 issue the licence within 30 days of receiving such application by him if the premises is in accordance with these 
 by-laws. If the Chairman refuses to issue the licence it shall be his duty to inform the applicant so, along with 
 reasons for his refusal.  
 
21. Every licence holder shall take measures to hang the licence and the list of names and addresses in languages of 
 Sinhala and Tamil of the employees engaged in service at the industry or business relevant to the li cence at a 
 conspicuous place in the licence holding premises. 
 
22. Every notice issued under this by-law shall be served to the owner or caretaker of the said place as the case may 
 be. In the absence of such persons, it shall be pasted on at a place conspicuous at the licenced pre mises. It shall 
 not be required to state the name of the premises, owner or person using the premises in such notice. 
  
23. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence 
 by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even 
 further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serve s a written 
 notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contrave ntion, the 
 maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the addition al 
 penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. 
 
24. In this by-law unless the context otherwise requires,  
 “Council” means Wattala – Mabola Urban Council ;  
 “Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council;  
 “Urban Council area of authority” means the area in which the Wattala – Mabola Urban Council  has been 
 established;  
 “An authorized officer of Urban Council,” means the officer/ officers authorized by the Chairman of Wattala – 
 Mabola Urban Council  to implement this by-law;  
 “Licensee” means any person who has been issued a licence to carry on a trade under these By-laws;  
 “Person” includes a group of persons incorporated or unincorporated;  
 “Person assigned with control” means a caretaker, protector, caretaker of property, manager or any other person 
 assigned with the task of organizing, control or management of certain business.  
 
25. In case of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 
 
BY LAW RELATING TO ADVERTISEMENTS OF WATTALA – MABOLA URBAN COUNCIL 
 
1. This by -law will be enforced for the purpose of regularization, control of advertisements displayed 
 conspicuously to a thoroughfare located within Wattala - Mabola Urban Council area of authority and for 
 levying charges on advertisements advertised thus.  
 
2. This by-law shall be named as the By -law Relating to Advertisements within Wattala - Mabola Urban Council 
 Area of Authority. 
 
3. No person shall display or cause to display any advertisement to be conspicuous to certain road or thoroughfare 
 of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council Area of Authority (hereinafter referred to as ‘area of authority’) unless he 
 possesses a license issued by the Chairman assigning power to do so. 
 

<!-- page 24 -->

24 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
4. For the purposes of this by -law, an advertisement means an electric sign board, banner, cutout or 
 advertisements  created by drawing on Aluminium sheets, iron, polythene, fabric or paper, else an 
 advertisement-board set up using galvanized iron or an advertisement displayed on a house, boutique, 
 hotel, wall, boundary wall to promote certain place of trade, trade material or business by using le tters or 
 pictures or special advertisements displayed  on festive occasions like trade exhibitions and carnivals,  and 
 erected to be conspicuous to the main road,  byroad, Provincial Council, Urban Council or private road. 
 
5.    (i) Every application requesting a license for the display of  whatever advertisement shall comply to th e 
  format stated in the first schedule herein and shall be forwarded to the Chairman of the Council at least 
  prior to three days of such date on which the said advertisement is meant to be displayed according to 
  the sixth section of this by-law. 
 
  (ii) The fee charged for an application issued by the Urban Council may be decided by the Council from 
  time to time through a resolution passed at the Council. 
 
6. Every application forwarded under Section 5 of this by-law shall satisfy the following requirements. 
 
 (1) Ground plan drawn not less than the scale relative to the location of the structure where the advert isement is to 
  be set up.  
 
 (2) The diagram of that structure drawn in scale not less than 1:1000 
 
 (3) Amendments, if there be any, so as to comply with these by -laws, exist in that plan, diagram or specification; 
  including such amendments. 
 
 (4) A copy of the same advertisement drawn in small scale and had all the colors applied that of the adv ertisement 
  to be displayed.  
 
 (5) The plan indicating the location of the advertisement in relation to the adjacent roads and main land marks. 
 
7. Unless conforming to plans, diagrams and specifications approved by way of a written document by the  
 Chairman of the Urban Council, no person shall construct or cause to construct within the Urban Coun cil area 
 of authority any advertisement or advertisements or any board, billboard, advertising boards, or any  other 
 structure to be utilized for the task of display. 
 
8. Where an application forwarded under this by -law is approved by the Chairman, the applicant shall not be 
 issued with the relevant  license until prescribed charges; decided and declared by way of a resolution passed by 
 the Council from time to time, had been paid. 
 
9. Where a license has been issued to a person for displaying an advertisement, the Urban Council shall  order the 
 said person to include license reference No. and license holder’s name in every advertisement displayed by him. 
 
10. The provisions stated in these by -laws shall not be relevant to any of the advertisements stated below unless 
 such advertisement is illuminated board or sky name board;  
 
 (a) A notice relating to a concert that deploys the amount of net revenue for charity affairs; 
 (b) An advertisement relating to a concert and displayed on the spot where the said concert is held; 
 (c) An advertisement relating to a religious, political or public meeting; 
 (d) An advertisement stating “to be let on rent” ; 
 (e) An advertisement stating “for sale”; 
 (f) House name boards; 
 (g) Name boards utilized for professional activities and not exceeding 0.93 Square Meters in area; 
 (h) A  vehicle  used for some trade purpose displaying an advertisement indicating the nature of that tr ade 
  affair or business, owner’s name, address, telephone No. and email address. 

<!-- page 25 -->

25A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
11. No person shall; 
 (1) display an advertisement on top of a street , road or footpath, or, across or protruding to such str eet, 
  road or footpath; 
 
 (2) display an advertisement on a board exceeding 15 meters height from the floor level; 
 
 (3) fix or let hang an advertisement on the surface of a building facing a street or road or on a name b oard 
  of a business place or, in a manner exceeding the length of the surface of the said building; 
 
 (4) construct or set up an advertisement in the nature of sky advertisement without prior approval of th e 
  Urban Council. 
 
12. No person shall display an advertisement on a private or public building, place of religious worship, Public Park 
 or on a bridge or overhead passenger bridge, telephone or electricity post, side wall, dam, anicut, culvert, rock, 
 bank or tree.  
 
13. No advertisement shall be constructed or set up in an area specifically indicated in a resolution ad opted by the 
 Council and duly published in the gazette paper unless it is a board relating to a trade center constructed or set 
 up in accordance to the manner approved by the Chairman of the Urban Council. 
 
14. Without the permission of Chairman of the Urban Council, using a radio, gramophone, musical instrume nt, a 
 bell or other equipment by any person for the purpose of displaying or introducing any advertisement in a street 
 or road located within the Urban Council area of authority would be illegal. 
 
15.  Under this by-law, 
 
 (1)  Where a particular advertisement found to be displaying repulsive or revolting image and causing dam age 
  to public morality, the Chairman of the Urban Council by way of a written announcement may order the  
  person  advertising  the  said  advertisement  to stop  displaying the  advertisement within a time period 
  specifically notified by that announcement. 
 
 (2)  Any person who has been served a notice under Section 01 of this by -law shall take action as per the said 
  notice within the time specified therein.  
 
16.  The owner or lease holder of a board used for displaying advertisements; 
 
 (i) Shall maintain the said boards in proper repaired state while ensuring safety of persons. 
 
 (ii) Shall display his name and address in legible letters on the front surface of the board in a clearly  visible 
  place.  
 
17.  No person shall distort certain logo or number included by Urban Council in an advertisement to indi cate that 
 the prescribed licence fee for the display of that advertisement has been paid. 
  
18.  Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence 
 by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even 
 further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serve s a written 
 notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contrave ntion, the 
 maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the addition al 
 penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. 
 
19. It is lawful for the Urban Council to remove without any prior notice, the advertisements displayed within the 
 Urban Council area of authority without obtaining a license under this by-law. 
 
20. Where certain person or institution has become an offender due to the reason of continuous display o f 
 advertisements without obtaining a license or due to contravention of conditions stipulated under this by-law, it 
 is lawful for the Urban Council to blacklist such person or institution regarding advertisement rela ted activities 
 within that Urban Council area of authority. 

<!-- page 26 -->

26 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
21.  Subsequent to receiving permission to display advertisements, even though the permit’s period of val idity  is 
 valid for a future period, if an advertisement board or a cutout or a banner fixed in any manner or drawn on a 
 wall or parapet wall has become torn, slanted, collapsed or discolored, broken down, changed and aff ects the 
 attractiveness of the city in whichever manner, within 07 days of handing over a written notice to t he relevant 
 owner with regard to such advertisements, measures shall be taken by him to restore it and if such r estoration 
 does not take place, it is lawful for the Council to remove such advertisement. Where the Council wi ll have to 
 remove the advertisement by deploying employees of the Council after 14 days of such notice, the Urb an 
 Council will not hold whatsoever responsibility regarding the said advertisement.  
 
22. In this by-law unless the context otherwise requires, 
 
 “Council” means Wattala – Mabola Urban Council ; 
 
 “Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council; 
 
 “An authorized officer of Urban Council,” means the officer/ officers authorized by the Chairman of Wattala – 
 Mabola Urban Council  to implement this by-law; 
 
 “Licensee” means any person who has been issued a licence to carry on a trade under these By-laws; 
 
 “Person” includes a group of persons incorporated or unincorporated; 
 
 “Person assigned with control” means a caretaker, protector, caretaker of property, manager or any other person 
 assigned with the task of organizing, control or management of certain business.  
 
23. In case of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail.  
 
 
SCHEDULE 01 
 
APPLICATION  FOR  DISPLAY  OF  ADVERTISEMENTS 
 
 
01.  Full Name of the Applicant: ………………………………………………………………………….  
02.  Permanent Address: …………………………………………………………………………………..  
03.  Business, festival, exhibition, carnival, meeting or trading material expected to be promoted throug h the 
 advertisement: ………………………………………………………………………………………  
 
04.  Location/ locations where the advertisement is intended to be displayed:………………………………  
 ………………………………………………………………………..………………………………….  
05.  Has relevant format been attached?: …………………………………………………………………….  
06.  Type of advertisement expected to be displayed (banner, boards, cutouts, wall, parapet wall or perma nent):
 ……………………………………………………………………………………………..  
 
07.  Even after receiving approval to display your advertisement, in the event of such advertisement bein g 
 discoloured, slanted, torn, collapses on to ground, would you agree to restore it? ………………..  
 ………………………………………………………………………………….……………………..  
 
I, hereby agree to display the advertisement in accordance to the regulations accepted by the Urban Council and I am 
well aware that contravention of the relevant by-law or any section therein to be a punishable offence. 
 
Date:-         ……………………….  
         (Signature of Applicant) 
 
 

<!-- page 27 -->

27A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
The following documents have been attached. 
 
I. Where the advertisement is a permanent one, the letter of consent obtained from the owner of the land where the 
 said advertisement will be set up. 
 
II If the advertisement will be drawn on a house, boutique, hotel, wall, parapet wall or any such place, the letter of 
 consent obtained from the owner of the said parapet wall, wall, boutique or hotel.  
 
III. Details of how land (space) will be used to draw or permanently fix the advertisement.  
 
IV. The format relevant to the advertisement shall be presented clearly. (subsequent to issuance of the licence, 
 permission will not be allowed to change the format in any way) 
 
 
BY LAW ON MAINTAINING ADVERTISING SERVICES OF WATTALA – MABOLA URBAN COUNCIL 
 
 
01. This by law will be enforced to allocate provisions for maintaining advertising services within the Wattala – 
 Mabola Urban Council area of authority, prescribing fees relevant to it and matters consequential to it. 
 
02. This by law shall be cited as the By-law on Advertising Services of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council. 
 
03. From the date of effect of this by law, it is lawful for Wattala – Mabola Urban Council (hereinafter referred to 
 as ‘Council’) to maintain an advertising service in a premises owned by or claimable by the Council within the 
 Wattala – Mabola Urban Council area of authority for Council’s or any other person’s advertising requirement.  
 
04. Under the advertising services stated in this by law, advertising activities that bear the following objectives shall 
 not be relevant. 
 
 i. Advertisement carried on behalf of certain political party or political group, 
  
 ii An advertisement with an inclination of persuasion towards some illegal activity or damaging the  
  culture and ethics.,   
 iii. An advertising that damages  or influence a religion of cultural identity,   
 iv. Advertising connected to alcohol, cigarettes or anything of that nature.  
 
05. Advertising services maintained by the Council under this by law may be an advertising activity carr ied out 
 under a digital hoarding or any type of advertising service decided and implemented on behalf of an advertising 
 activity of Council. 
 
06. Every person requesting for an advertising task for an advertising service maintained through a digi tal board or 
 any other nature, shall request by way of an application obtained from the Secretary of the Council.  
 
07. Charges levied for advertising services shall be the charges decided and declared after adoption thr ough a 
 proposal-affirmation by the Council from time to time.  
. 
08. In every request to obtain advertising services under this by-law, allocation of advertising time shall be based on 
 the priority basis on which applications were received.  
 
09. After paying the relevant fees prescribed under this by-law, in any case the relevant advertisement could not be 
 advertised within the time period reserved for advertising owing to a reason beyond the control of t he Council 
 or any other technical reason, the fees relevant to that service shall be charged only in an occasio n where the 
 applicant agrees to obtain a fair advertising opportunity in future.  
 
10. It shall be lawful to decide and declare from time to time the related or relevant conditions for every advertising 
 service maintained by the Council. 
 

<!-- page 28 -->

28 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
11. Conditions specified and declared by the Council under Section 10 above shall be enforced as conditi ons 
 specified under these by law itself. 
 
12. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence 
 by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even 
 further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serve s a written 
 notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contrave ntion, the 
 maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the addition al 
 penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. 
 
13. In this by-law unless the context otherwise requires, 
 
  “Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council;  
  “Secretary” means the Secretay of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council ; 
 “An authorized officer of Urban Council,” means the officer/ officers authorized by the Chairman of Wattala – 
 Mabola Urban Council  to implement this by-law; 
 “Licensee” means any person who has been issued a licence to carry on a trade under these By-laws; 
 “Person” includes a group of persons incorporated or unincorporated; 
 “Person assigned with control” means a caretaker, protector, caretaker of property, manager or any other person 
 assigned with the task of organizing, control or management of certain business.  
 
14. In case of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail.  
 
BY LAW RELATING TO INSTITUTIONS PRODUCING PLASTIC AND POLYTHENE RELATED GOODS 
OF WATTALA – MABOLA URBAN COUNCIL 
 
01. This by -law shall be enforced to allocate provisions to regularize, supervise, control and levy charges on 
 institutions producing plastic and polythene related goods within Wattala - Mabola Urban Council area of 
 authority.  
 
02. This by-law shall be cited as the By -law on Institutions Producing Plastic and Polythene Related Goods within 
 Wattala – Mabola Urban Council.  
 
03. Unless on a licences issued by the Chairman of the Council for the intended purpose, no person shall  maintain 
 an institution producing plastic and polythene related goods within Wattala – Mabola (hereinafter referred to as 
‘ ‘area of authority’) Urban Council Area of Authority.  
 
04. Every licence issued under this by-law, unless cancelled earlier, shall be valid up to thirty first of December of 
 the year for which it was issued.  
 
05. (i)  Every person requesting for a licence under this by-law shall apply for it by way of an application  
  conforming to this by-law and obtained from the Council.  
 
 (ii)  The charges for an application under this section shall be the charges decided and declared from tim e 
  to time by the Council.  
 
06. Charges levied for issuance of a licence under this by -law shall be the charges decided and declared by the 
 Council from time to time by way of a proposal-affirmation.  
 
07. Where there is a permanent building in the premises utilized for the task specified in this by -law, it shall be a 
 building constructed according to a plan approved by the Chairman and unless that premises conforms to the 
 following conditions, no person shall have the right to obtain a licence under this by-law.  

<!-- page 29 -->

29A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
 (i) The premises should be of proper renovated condition and constructed in a manner allowing sufficient  
  air and light into it and every room, when opened, shall consist of windows that have an area of one  
  fifteenth from floor area of the room.  
 
 (ii) While  the  height of the walls of all rooms shall not be less than 2.14 Meters and built with brick s, 
  granite, cabook blocks or cement blocks. Insides of the walls shall have been plastered with cement 
  and the remaining part plastered with mortar applied with paints.   
 
  (iii) The end of eaves shall be more than 2 Meters above the floor level; 
 
  (iv) The roof shall be made of some solid material; 
 
  (v) All the wood work should be applied with paints.  
 
  (vi) The entire floor should be constructed with some solid material. 
 
 (vii) The premises should be constructed in a manner allowing sufficient water drainage. 
  
 (viii) Sanitary bins and sufficient lavatory facilities shall be provided in the premises. 
 
 (ix) Sufficient fire extinguishing facilities should be provided to the premises. 
 
  (x) There shall be sufficient facilities to park vehicles  
 
  (xi) First-aid facilities should be provided.  
 
 (xii) Should maintain an accidents list.  
 
08. Every licence holder holding a licence under this by-law:  
 
 (xv) Shall maintain the waste collected within the premises in closed bins and not causing nuisance until  
  they are disposed properly.  
 
 (xvi) The material required for the industry should be kept stored in the premises without any dangerous o r 
  harmful manner.  
 
 (xvii) Provided  that all the waste material produced at the licenced premises are recycled, action shall b e 
  taken to categorize the waste material under the following categories and maintain them in separate 
  bins., 
 
   (a)  bio degradable waste ; 
  (b)  glass ; 
  (c)  paper; 
  (d)  polythene or plastic ; 
  (e)  iron or other kinds of metal; 
  (f)  hazardous waste ; 
 
 (xviii) Employees employed in the institution shall have been provided with face masks, gloves and other 
  required safety attire and they should be worn at the time of duty.  
 
 (xix) A health  insurance program relating to every employee shall be put into operation Waste disposed 
  from the premises should be disposed  according to the waste management program implemented by 
  the Council. 

<!-- page 30 -->

30 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
 (xx) Equipment  used  for the manufacturing process shall be maintained under proper maintenance and 
  security. 
 
 (xxi) Proposal- reports from a reputed institution about fire protection measures of the premises shall be 
  obtained every six months.  
 
09. All the material and other required material used for the relevant industry shall be stored without causing bad smell 
 to emanate or causing any nuisance by every licence holder. 
 
10. Every licence holder shall take adequate measures to release the oppressive sounds, steams or gases generated in a 
 production process in his premises to the air at a suitable height and in a manner not to cause oppr essive results 
 when they are dispersed, or shall cause to release them through fire or condensation device. 
 
11. Every licence holder shall construct sufficient drains in the premises where his business is conduct ed and maintain 
 them properly and wash them daily. 
 
 12. Every licence holder shall construct the floor of the premises with some opaque material and maintain them in good 
 repair and shall cause them to be washed daily. 
 
13. Every licence holder shall paint the said premises annually during the period of conducting his business.  
 
14. Every licence holder shall keep all the tools including equipment and utensils used in the trading activities cleanly. 
 
15. Every licence holder shall take measures to collect in covered utensils the waste generated in his b usiness premises, 
 trimmings and leftover swept and collected, workshop -waste and by -products unless they are used in business 
 activities further, and to remove them daily in the manner prescribed by the Chairman.  
  
16. Every licence holder shall wash and clean the tanks that are used to wash or soak hides or similar m aterials after 
 emptying them to prevent stinking. 
 
17. Every licence holder shall ensure that any river, stream, canal, anicut, well, tank or any reservoir will not be polluted 
 by causing certain dirty, odoursome or oppressive water or other  such liquid to be sent down or to flow into a river, 
 stream, canal, anicut, well, tank or any drain or by washing out certain oppressive material in them, or in some other 
 way.  
 
18. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any Officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha specially authorized by the   Chairman for 
 the relevant purpose to enter premises relating to the by -law to inspect whether the relevant premises conforms to 
 the by-law. It shall be the duty of the licence holder or the person in charge of the premises to allow such inspection. 
 
19. Through such an inspection where a licensed premise is found to be non -complying to the provisions of these by -
 laws, it shall be lawful for the Chairman to take action to inform the licence holder in writing to accomplish the 
 necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the proper order before a specified time period . It shall be the 
 duty of the licence holder to take action in accordance with the said notice. If he fails to take action accordingly, the 
 Chairman has power to cancel the licence at such an occasion.  
   
20. It shall be the duty of the Chairman on receipt of an application requesting for a licence to carry on any trade, to 
 issue the licence within 30 days of receiving such application by him if the premises is in accordance with these by-
 laws. If the Chairman refuses to issue the licence it shall be his duty to inform the applicant so, along with 
 reasons for his refusal.  
 
21. Every licence holder shall take measures to hang the licence and the list of names and addresses in languages of 
 Sinhala and Tamil of the employees engaged in service at the industry or business relevant to the li cence at a 
 conspicuous place in the licence holding premises. 
 
22. Every notice issued under this by-law shall be served to the owner or caretaker of the said place as the case may be. 
 In the absence of such persons, it shall be pasted on at a place conspicuous at the licenced premise s. It shall not be 
 required to state the name of the premises, owner or person using the premises in such notice.  

<!-- page 31 -->

31A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
23. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence by 
 a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even further 
 and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a writ ten notice 
 drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the maximum of 
 the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penalty stated under 
 Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. 
 
24. In this by-law unless the context otherwise requires, 
 
 “Council” means Wattala – Mabola Urban Council ; 
 “Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council; 
 “Urban Council area of authority” means the area in which the Wattala – Mabola Urban Council  has been 
 established; 
 “An authorized officer of Urban Council,” means the officer/ officers authorized by the Chairman of Wattala – 
 Mabola Urban Council  to implement this by-law; 
 “Licensee” means any person who has been issued a licence to carry on a trade under these By-laws; 
 “Person” includes a group of persons incorporated or unincorporated; 
 “Person assigned with control” means a caretaker, protector, caretaker of property, manager or any o ther person 
 assigned with the task of organizing, control or management of certain business.  
 
25. In case of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail.  
 
 
 
BY-LAW  TO  REGULARIZE  THE  USE  OF  PUBLIC  LAVATORIES  
IN WATTALA – MABOLA  URBAN  COUNCIL 
 
01. This by-law shall be enforced to allocate provisions to properly maintain and control the clean lavatory sys tem 
 containing sanitary facilities; provided by Wattala – Mabola Urban Council to its public.  
 
02. This by-law shall be cited as the By-law on Public Lavatories of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council.  
 
03. When excreting within a public lavatory, no person shall excrete into other place except the lavator y pan, whereas, 
 when urinating, urine should not be passed to any other place except to the lavatory or place allocated to it. 
 
04. No person shall use the water provided to public lavatory for any other purpose other than the purpo ses of the 
 lavatory. 
 
05. No person shall dump or place bricks, soil, stones, ash or any other material in a public lavatory o r into lavatory 
 pans or into the drains or to other openings so as to block them. 
 
06. Unless at an occasion of repairing a public lavatory; no person shall damage, remove, block or chang e in any way 
 the manner a lavatory pan, pipe, valve, tank or any other fixation had been fixed, or its location o r order; nor 
 shall any wall, floor, roof or structure of the said lavatory be  destructed, distorted, damaged or scratched 
 deliberately. 
 
07. Only females should enter a public lavatory allotted for females and only males should enter a publi c lavatory 
 allotted for males, whereas, at times of cleaning or repairing, doors should be closed and closure s hould be 
 announced by way of a notice in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages displayed at the entrance while  persons 
 assigned with cleaning or repairing work perform them.   
 
08. Within the city, no person shall excrete or urinate at any other place other than in a lavatory. 
 
09. A legal order made by a helper, watcher, employee or caretaker of a public lavatory, while performing his duty shall 
 not be defaulting or obstructed. 

<!-- page 32 -->

32 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
10. A public lavatory should only be used to excrete or urinate while taking care to prevent from smokin g or using 
 narcotics or loitering inside it. 
 
11. Where the maintenance and custody of a public lavatory has been assigned to a private sector, the la vatory should 
 be maintained in daily -washed condition through the assignee. If any fee is charged for the maintenance of the 
 lavatory, the relevant fee should be displayed by way of a notice at the entrance to be conspicuous prior to entering.  
 
12. The lavatory should always be maintained in cleanly and sanitary condition, wherein, it shall be mai ntained in 
 proper condition having cleaned with antiseptic and washed daily.   
 
13. When the public lavatory has been assigned to a person or to other institution or it is maintained b y the Council, a 
 fee decided by the Council may be levied from the users to cover up the expenses relevant to it. The  amount of 
 money chargeable by him to meet up expenses may be decided by the Council from time to time. The sai d person 
 may charge only that amount from the lavatory user. 
 
14. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence  by a 
 court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continue d even 
 further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serve s a written 
 notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contrave ntion, the 
 maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the addition al 
 penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.   
 
15.  In these By-laws unless the context otherwise requires, 
 
 “Council” means Wattala – Mabola Urban Council ; 
 “Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council; 
 “Authorized officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council  to 
 implement this by-law; 
 
16.  In case of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail.  
 
 
 
BY LAW RELATING TO PLACES MAINTENANING PRIVATE HOSPITALS AND LABORATORY 
SERVICES OF WATTALA – MABOLA URBAN COUNCIL 
 
 
1. This by-law shall be enforced to allocate provisions to regularize, supervise, control and levy charges on p rivate 
 hospitals and laboratory services within Wattala - Mabola Urban Council area of authority.  
 
2. This by-law shall be cited as the By -law on Private Hospitals and Laboratory Services Maintaining Places within 
 Wattala – Mabola Urban Council Area of Authority (hereinafter referred to as the ‘area of authority’)  
 
3. Unless on a licence issued by the Chairman for the intended purpose, no person shall maintain a plac e for private 
 hospital and laboratory Service  (hereinafter referred to as ‘premises’) within the urban council area of authority.  
 
4. Every licence issued shall be valid up to 31 st of December of the year for which it had been issued unless it is 
 cancelled earlier. 
 
5. Where there is a permanent building in the premises utilized for the task specified in this by -law, it shall be a 
 building constructed according to a plan approved by the Chairman and unless that premises conforms to the 
 following conditions, no person shall have the right to obtain a licence to maintain a place for pri vate hospitals and 
 laboratory services.  
 
 (i) The premises should be provided with fire extinguishing facilities, whereas, an assurance that a sup ervision by 
  a reputed institution with regard to the fire extinguishing equipment takes place. 

<!-- page 33 -->

33A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
 (ii) There shall be sufficient facilities to park vehicles  
 
 (iii) Sufficient sanitary facilities should be provided within the premises. 
 
 (iv) Facilities should have been allotted to discharge the disposed waste water to outside without danger.  
 
 (v) The premises should have been constructed allowing sufficient water drainage.    
 (vi) Equipment and tools maintained within the premises should be of proper condition and kept in proper  
  maintenance. 
 
6. Every licence holder shall store all materials necessary for carrying on the trade in such a manner that no offensive 
 odours will emanate from them or create any nuisance. 
 
7. A licence holder, when taking away things that can cause offensive odours or nuisances from the lice nsed premises 
 along public thoroughfares, shall take them in closed non-absorbent vessels to prevent odours or nuisances. 
 
8. Every licence holder, shall take adequate measures to release the oppressive sounds, steams or gases  generated in a 
 production process in his premises to the air at a suitable height and in a manner not to cause oppressive results when 
 they are dispersed, or shall cause to release them through fire or condensation device. 
 
9. Inspection of machinery by every licence holder shall be from  6.00 a.m. to 6.00 p.m. 
 
10. Every licence holder, shall construct sufficient drains in the premises where his business is conduc ted and maintain 
 them properly and wash them daily. 
 
11. Every licence holder, shall construct the floor of the premises with some opaque material and mainta in them in good 
 repair and shall cause them to be washed daily. 
 
12. shall dispose the waste collected in the premises according to the waste management program of the Council.. 
 
13. Every licence holder shall paint the said premises annually during the period of conducting his business.  
 
14. Every licence holder shall keep all the tools including equipment and utensils used in the business activities cleanly. 
 
15. Every licence holder shall take measures to collect in covered utensils the waste generated in his b usiness premises,                
  trimmings and leftover swept and collected, workshop -waste and by -products unless they are used in business 
 activities further and to remove them daily in the manner prescribed by the Urban Council. 
 
16 Every licence holder shall wash and clean the tanks that are used to wash or soak other material aft er emptying them 
 to prevent stinking. 
 
17. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any Officer of the Urban Council specially authorized by the   Chairman for 
 the relevant purpose to enter premises during official hours and to inspect the premises. It shall b e the duty of the 
 licence holder or the person in charge of the premises to allow such inspections. 
 
18. Through such an inspection where a licensed premise is found to be non -complying to the provisions of these                   
 by-laws, it shall be lawful for the Chairman to take action to inform the licence holder in writing to accomplish the 
 necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the proper order before a specified time period . It shall be the 
 duty of the licence holder to take action in accordance with the said notice. If he fails to take action accordingly, the 
 Chairman has the power to cancel the licence at such an occasion. 
 
19. It shall be the duty of the Chairman on receipt of an application requesting for a licence to carry on any trade, to 
 issue the licence within 30 days of receiving such application by him if the premises is in accordan ce with these                
 by-laws. If the Chairman refuses to issue the licence it shall be his duty to inform the applicant so, along with 
 reasons for his refusal. 
 
20. Every licence holder shall take measures to hang the licence and the list of names and addresses in languages of 
 Sinhala and Tamil of the employees engaged in service at the industry or business relevant to the li cence, at a 
 conspicuous place in the licence holding premises. 

<!-- page 34 -->

34 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
21. Every notice issued under this by-law shall be served to the owner or caretaker of the said place as the case may be. 
 In the absence of such persons, it shall be hanged on at a place conspicuous at the licenced premise s. It shall not be 
 required to state the name of the premises owner or person using the premises in such notice. 
 
22. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence by a 
 court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continue d even further 
 and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a writ ten notice 
 drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the maximum of 
 the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penalty stated under 
 Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance 
 
23. In this by-law, unless the context otherwise requires, 
 
 “Council” means Wattala – Mabola Urban Council ; 
 “Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council; 
 “Urban Council area of authority” means the area in which the Wattala – Mabola Urban Council  has been 
 established; 
 “An authorized officer of Urban Council,” means the officer/ officers authorized by the Chairman of Wattala – 
 Mabola Urban Council  to implement this by-law; 
  “Person assigned with control” means an officer or officers authorized by the Chairman of  Wattala – Mabola Urban 
 Council  to implement this by-law.  
 “Licence holder” means any person who has been issued a licence to carry on a trade under these By-laws; 
 “Person” includes a group of persons incorporated or unincorporated; 
 “Person assigned with control” means a caretaker, protector, caretaker of property, manager or any o ther person 
 assigned with the task of organizing, control or management of certain business. 
 
24. In case of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 
 
 
BY LAW ON OBTAINING OF INFORMATION TO PRESCRIBE A TAX AND FEE OF  
WATTALA – MABOLA URBAN COUNCIL 
 
1. This by law shall be enforced to make provisions to obtain relevant information to prescribe a tax o r fee for 
 premises within the Wattala – Mabola Urban Council area of authority.  
 
2. This by law shall be cited as By -law On Obtaining of Information to Prescribe a Tax or Fee for a Premises within 
 Wattala – Mabola Urban Council.  
 
3. All the businesses and industries functioning within Wattala – Mabola Urban Council area of authority shall 
 maintain clear accounts records according to an accepted accounting system.  
 
4. Providing information, copies relevant to all the finances and accounts requested by the Chairman or  his authorized 
 officer is the duty of every person subject to a tax or fee under the Urban Councils Ordinance.  
 
5. Information of all the businesses and industries and term reports on financial accounts relating to all the 
 businesses and industries, presented upon a request made by Chairman or his authorized officer from time to 
 time, shall be prepared on accepted financial and accounting concepts.  
 
6. All the financial and accounts reports forwarded by the 5 th by-law above shall be reports certified and inspected by 
 an accepted accounts examiner. 
 
7. Whoever person, upon receiving a notice served by the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council or his 
 authorized Officer, shall forward to Chairman the information required by such notice within 14 days from the  date 
 of receipt of such notice by him. 

<!-- page 35 -->

35A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
8. Information forwarded to the Chairman shall be true and facts should not be kept unrevealed.  
 
9. Where the details pertaining to term reports requested under the above Section 5 needs to be inspect ed, it shall be 
 lawful for the Chairman or his authorized officer to enter the relevant business place or industry premises to inspect 
 the truthfulness of said books.  
 
10. Contravention of any provisions of this by -law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence 
 by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is con tinued even 
 further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serve s a written 
 notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contrave ntion, the 
 maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the addition al 
 penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. 
 
 
11. In this by-law unless the context otherwise requires, 
 
  “Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council; 
  “Council” means Wattala – Mabola Urban Council ; 
  “Authorized officer” means an officer authorized by the Chairman  
 
12. In case of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 
 
BY LAW RELATING TO BATTERY STORAGE AND REPAIRS OF  
WATTALA – MABOLA URBAN COUNCIL 
 
 
1. This by-law shall be enforced to make provisions to regularize, supervise, control and levy charges on batte ry 
 storage and repairs within Wattala - Mabola Urban Council area of authority.  
 
2. This by-law shall be cited as the By -law Relating to Battery Storage and Repairs of Wattala – Mabola Urban 
 Council.  
 
3. Unless on a licence issued by the Chairman for the intended purpose, no person shall maintain a battery storage and 
 repair facility within Wattala – Mabola urban council area of authority (hereinafter referred to as ‘area of 
 authority’).  
 
4. Every licence issued shall be valid up to 31 st of December of the year for which it had been issued unless it is 
 cancelled earlier. 
 
5. (i)  Every person applying for a licence under this by law shall apply for it under an application conforming to  this 
  by-law and obtained from the Council.  
 
 (ii) The charges for an application under  this section shall be the charges decided and declared from ti me to time 
  by the Council.  
 
6. Charges levied for issuance of a licence under this by-law shall be the charges decided and declared by the Council 
 from time to time by way of a proposal-affirmation.  
 
7. Where there is a permanent building in the premises utilized for the task specified in this by -law, it shall be a 
 building constructed according to a plan approved by the Chairman and unless that premises conforms to the 
 following conditions, no person shall have the right to obtain a licence under this by-law.  
 
 (i) The premises should be of proper renovated condition and constructed in a manner allowing sufficient  air 
   and  light into it and every room, when opened, shall consist of windows that have an area of one fifteen th 
   from  floor area of the room.  

<!-- page 36 -->

36 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
 (ii) While the height of the walls of all rooms shall not be less than 2.14 Meters and built with bricks,  granite, 
    cabook blocks or cement blocks. Insides of the walls shall have been plastered with cement at least up to 2 
    Meters from the floor level and the remaining part plastered with mortar applied with paints.   
 
  (iii) The end of eaves shall be more than 2 Meters above the floor level. 
 
  (iv) The roof shall be made of some solid material. 
 
  (v) All the wood work should be applied with paints.  
 
  (vi) The entire floor should be constructed with some solid material. 
 
  (vii) The premises should be constructed in a manner allowing sufficient water drainage. 
 
 (viii) Sanitary bins and sufficient lavatory facilities shall be provided in the premises. 
 
 (ix) Sufficient fire extinguishing facilities should be provided to the premises.  
 
 (x) There shall be sufficient facilities to park vehicles.   
 
 (xi) First-aid facilities should be provided.  
 
 (xii) Should maintain an accidents list. 
 
8. Every licence holder holding a licence under this by-law, 
 
 (xxii) hall  maintain  the  waste  collected  within the  premises  in  closed  bins and not causing nuisan ce until 
  they are disposed properly.  
 
 (xxiii) The  material  required  for the  industry should be kept stored in the premises without any dangero us or 
  harmful manner.  
 
 (xxiv) Provided that all the waste material produced at the licenced premises are recycled, action shall be  taken to 
  categorize the waste material under the following categories and maintain them in separate bins; 
  
 (a)  bio degradable waste ; 
 (b)  glass ; 
 (c)  paper; 
 (d)  polythene or plastic ; 
 (e)  iron or other kinds of metal; 
 (f)  hazardous waste ; 
 
(xxv) Employees employed in the institution shall have been provided with face masks, gloves and other req uired 
 safety attire and they should be worn at the time of duty. 
 
(xxvi) A health insurance program relating to every employee shall be put into operation.  
 
(xxvii) Waste disposed from the premises should be disposed according to the waste management program 
 implemented by the Council.  
 
(xxviii) Equipment used for the manufacturing process shall be maintained under proper maintenance and security.  
 
(xxix) Proposal- reports from a reputed institution about fire protection measures of the premises shall be obtained 
 every six months. 

<!-- page 37 -->

37A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
9. All the material and other required material used for the relevant industry shall be stored without causing bad smell 
 to emanate or causing any nuisance by every licence holder. 
 
10. Every licence holder shall take adequate measures to release the oppressive sounds, steams or gases generated in a 
 production process in his premises to the air at a suitable height and in a manner not to cause oppressive results when 
 they are dispersed, or shall cause to release them through fire or condensation device. 
 
11. Every licence holder shall construct sufficient drains in the premises where his business is conduct ed and maintain 
 them properly and wash them daily. 
 
12. Every licence holder shall construct the floor of the premises with some opaque material and maintai n them in good 
 repair and shall cause them to be washed daily. 
 
13. Every licence holder shall paint the said premises annually during the period of conducting his business. 
 
14. Every licence holder shall keep all the tools including equipment and utensils used in the trading activities cleanly. 
 
15. Every licence holder shall take measures to collect in covered utensils the waste generated in his b usiness premises, 
 trimmings and leftover swept and collected, workshop -waste and by -products unless they are used in business 
 activities further, and to remove them daily in the manner prescribed by the Chairman.  
  
16. Every licence holder shall wash and clean the tanks that are used to wash or soak hides or similar m aterials after 
 emptying them to prevent stinking  
 
17. Every licence holder shall ensure that any river, stream, canal, anicut, well, tank or any reservoir will not be polluted 
 by causing certain dirty, odoursome or oppressive water or other  such liquid to be sent down or to flow into a river, 
 stream, canal, anicut, well, tank or any drain or by washing out certain oppressive material in them, or in some other 
 way.  
 
18. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any Officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha specially authorized by t he   Chairman 
 for the relevant purpose to enter premises relating to the by -law to inspect whether the relevant premises conforms 
 to the by -law. It shall be the duty of the licence holder or the person in charge of the premises to allow suc h 
 inspection. 
 
19. Through such an inspection where a licensed premise is found to be non -complying to the provisions of these                 
 by-laws, it shall be lawful for the Chairman to take action to inform the licence holder in writing to accomplish the 
 necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the proper order before a specified time period . It shall be the 
 duty of the licence holder to take action in accordance with the said notice. If he fails to take action accordingly, the 
 Chairman has power to cancel the licence at such an occasion.  
 
20. It shall be the duty of the Chairman on receipt of an application requesting for a licence to carry on any trade, to 
 issue the licence within 30 days of receiving such application by him if the premises is in accordan ce with these                
 by-laws. If the Chairman refuses to issue the licence it shall be his duty to inform the applicant so, along with 
 reasons for his refusal.  
  
21. Every licence holder shall take measures to hang the licence and the list of names and addresses in languages of 
 Sinhala and Tamil of the employees engaged in service at the industry or business relevant to the li cence at a 
 conspicuous place in the licence holding premises.  
 
22. Every notice issued under this by-law shall be served to the owner or caretaker of the said place as the case may be. 
 In the absence of such persons, it shall be hanged on at a place conspicuous at the licenced premise s. It shall not be 
 required to state the name of the premises owner or person using the premises in such notice. 
 
23. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence by a 
 court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continue d even further 
 and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a writ ten notice 

<!-- page 38 -->

38 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
 drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the maximum of 
 the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penalty stated under 
 Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. 
 
24. In this by-law unless the context otherwise requires, 
 
 “Council” means Wattala – Mabola Urban Council ; 
 “Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council; 
 “Urban  Council  area of authority” means  the  area  in  which the  Wattala – Mabola  Urban  Council   has  been 
      established; 
 “An authorized  officer  of  Urban Council,”  means the officer/ officers authorized by the Chairman  of                      
  Wattala – Mabola Urban Council  to implement this by-law; 
 “Licence holder” means any person who has been issued a licence to carry on a trade under these By-laws; 
 “Person” includes a group of persons incorporated or unincorporated; 
 “Person  assigned  with control” means a caretaker, protector, caretaker of property, manager or any  other person 
       assigned with the task of organizing, control or management of certain business.  
 
25. In case of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 
 
BY LAW ON THOROUGHFARES OF WATTALA – MABOLA URBAN COUNCIL  
 
 
1. This by law shall be enforced to make provisions to prevent obstructions and other type of mediation s to 
 thoroughfares within Wattala – Mabola Urban Council area of authority functioning under the general authority of 
 Wattala – Mabola Urban Council.  
 
2. This by law shall be cited as the By-law on Thoroughfares of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council.  
 
3. In order to maintain the thoroughfares subjected to Council’s authority and located within Wattala – Mabola Urban 
 Council area of authority (hereinafter referred to as ‘area of authority’) in proper and quality con dition, a grading 
 shall be made in the manner stated in the schedule below. 
 
4. The Chairman shall not issue the relevant permit until the deposit amount prescribed to the applicant according to the 
 estimate made, based on the amount of damage caused to thoroughfares that has been stated in the app lication 
 forwarded under this by-law has been paid, and the receipt relevant to such payment is forwarded.  
 
5. A road inventory shall be maintained including information detailed as scheduled property to include  all the 
 thoroughfares graded by the Council . 
 
6. Culverts and bridges connecting to all the thoroughfares functioning  under Council’s general author ity, should be 
 numbered and documented.  
 
 7. It shall be lawful for the Chairman to display a notice permanently or for certain time period for p rotection and in 
 order to prevent the developing or developed thoroughfare being subjected to damage causing activities: 
 
 (i) Entry of vehicles prohibited;   
 (ii) One direction traffic;   
 (iii) Entry of heavy vehicles prohibited ;  
 (iv) Road closed;   
 
8. No person, with regard to whatever thoroughfare relevant to this by law shall, 
  

<!-- page 39 -->

39A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
 (xxx) Construct an access way obstructing water receding drain, culvert or take any other measure;  
 
 (xxxi) Store or collect materials or goods, obstructing transportation;     
 
 (xxxii) Not  cause  to  grow a  tree  protruding  to a  thoroughfare or to a drain, culvert  therein or caus e its 
  branches to protrude towards such;  
 
 (xxxiii) Not carry  out  any  permanent  or impermanent  construction,  fixation or  decoration in  a manner 
   damaging a thoroughfare;   
 
 (xxxiv) Not dispose waste water or waste to a thoroughfare or to a drain therein;  
 
 (xxxv)  Not hold festivals in a manner obstructing a thoroughfare.   
 
9. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence  by a 
 court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continue d even 
 further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serve s a written 
 notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contrave ntion, the 
 maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the addition al 
 penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance 
 
10. In this by-law unless the context otherwise requires, 
 
 “Council” means Wattala – Mabola Urban Council ; 
 “Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council; 
 “Urban  Council  area of authority” means  the  area in  which  the Wattala – Mabola  Urban  Council   has been 
      established;  
 “An  authorized  officer of Urban Council,” means the officer/ officers authorized by the Chairman o f                     
  Wattala – Mabola Urban Council  to implement this by-law; 
  “Person assigned with control” means an officer or officers authorized by the Chairman of  Wattala – Mabola Urban 
     Council  to implement this by-law; 
 “Licence holder” means any person who has been issued a licence to carry on a trade under these By-laws; 
 “Person” includes a group of persons incorporated or unincorporated; 
 “Person assigned with control” means a caretaker, protector, caretaker of property, manager or any o ther person 
     assigned with the task of organizing, control or management of certain business. 
 
11. In case of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 
 
BY LAW ON INSTITUTIONS ENGAGED IN IRON AND STEEL INDUSTRY 
 IN WATTALA – MABOLA URBAN COUNCIL 
 
1. This by-law shall be enforced to allocate provisions to regularize, supervise, control and levy charges on i nstitutions 
 engaged in iron and steel industry within Wattala - Mabola Urban Council area of authority. 
 
2. This by law shall be cited as the By -law on Institutions Engaged in Iron and Steel Industry within Wattala – Mabola 
 Urban Council. 
 
3. Unless on a licence issued by the Chairman of the Council for the intended purpose, no person shall maintain an 
 institution engaged in iron and steel industry within Wattala – Mabola Urban Council Area of Authority (hereinafter 
 referred to as ‘area of authority’). 

<!-- page 40 -->

40 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
4. Every licence issued under this by -law, unless cancelled earlier, shall be valid up to thirty first of December of the 
 year for which it was issued. 
 
5. (i)  Every person requesting for a licence under this by -law shall apply for it by way of an application conforming 
  to this by-law and obtained from the Council. 
 
 (ii)  The charges for an application under this section shall be the charges decided and declared from time to time by 
  the Council.  
  
6. Charges levied for issuance of a licence under this by -law shall be the charges decided and declared by the Council 
 from time to time by way of a resolution passed therein. 
 
7. Where there is a permanent building in the premises utilized for the task specified in this by -law, it shall be a 
 building constructed according to a plan approved by the Chairman and unless that premises conforms to the 
 following conditions, no person therein shall have the right to obtain a licence under this by-law: 
 
 (i)   The premises should be of proper renovated condition and constructed in a manner allowing sufficient air and 
     light into it and every room, and when opened, shall consist of windows that have an area not less t han one 
     fifteenth from the floor area of the room;  
 
 (ii)   While the height of the walls of all rooms shall not be less than 2.14 Meters and built with bricks,  granite, 
     cabook blocks or cement blocks. Insides of the walls shall have been plastered with cement at least up to a 
     height of 2 Meters and the remaining part should be plastered with mortar and applied with paints;   
 
 (iii)  The end of eaves shall be more than 2 Meters above the floor level; 
 
 (iv)   The roof shall be made of some solid material; 
 
 (v)   All the wood work should be applied with paints;  
 
 (vi)   The entire floor should be constructed with some solid material; 
 
 (vii)  The premises should be constructed in a manner allowing sufficient water drainage; 
 
 (viii)   Sanitary bins and sufficient lavatory facilities shall be provided in the premises; 
 
 (ix)   Sufficient fire extinguishing facilities should be provided to the premises; 
 
 (x)   There shall be sufficient facilities to park vehicles;  
 
 (xi)   First-aid facilities should be provided ; 
 
 (xii)  An accidents list should  be maintained; 
 
8. Every licence holder holding a licence under this by-law, 
 
 (xxxvi)   Shall maintain the waste collected within the premises in closed bins and not causing nuisance until  they 
      are disposed properly.  
 
 (xxxvii)   The  material required for the industry should be kept stored in the premises without any dangerous or 
      harmful manner. 
 
 (xxxviii)  Provided that all the waste material produced at the licenced premises are recycled, action shall be taken to 
     c ategorize the waste material under the following categories and maintain them in separate bins: 
 
  (a)  bio degradable waste ; 
   (b)  glass ; 

<!-- page 41 -->

41A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
  (c)  paper; 
  (d)  polythene or plastic ; 
 (e)  iron or other kinds of metal; 
  (f)  hazardous waste ; 
 (xxxix) Employees employed in the institution should be provided with face masks, gloves and other required 
  safety attire and they should be worn at the time of duty.  
 
 (xl) A health insurance program relating to every employee shall be put into operation. 
 
 (xli) Waste disposed from the premises should be disposed according to the waste management program 
  implemented by the Council.  
 
 (xlii) Equipment used for the manufacturing process shall be maintained under proper maintenance and  
  security.  
 
 (xliii) Proposal- reports from a reputed institution about fire protection measures of the premises shall be 
  obtained every six months.   
  
9. Every licence holder shall store all the material and other required material used for the relevant industry without 
 causing bad smell to emanate or causing any nuisance. 
 
10. Every licence holder shall take adequate measures to release the oppressive sounds, steams or gases generated in a 
 production process in his premises to the air at a suitable height and in a manner not to cause oppressive results when 
 they are dispersed, or shall cause to release them through fire or condensation device. 
 
11. Every licence holder shall construct sufficient drains in the premises where his business is conduct ed and maintain 
 them properly and wash them daily. 
 
12. Every licence holder shall construct the floor of the premises with some opaque material and maintai n it in good 
 repair and shall cause them to be washed daily. 
 
13. Every licence holder shall paint the said premises annually during the period of conducting his business. 
 
14. Every licence holder shall keep all the tools including equipment and utensils used in the business activities, cleanly. 
 
 15. Every licence holder shall take measures to collect in covered utensils the waste generated in his b usiness premises, 
 trimmings and leftover swept and collected, workshop -waste and by -products unless they are used in business 
 activities further, and to remove them  in the manner prescribed by the Chairman.  
 
16. Every licence holder shall wash and clean the tanks that are used to wash or soak other materials af ter emptying 
 them to prevent stinking. 
 
17. Every licence holder shall ensure that any river, stream, canal, anicut, well, tank or any reservoir will not be polluted 
 by causing certain dirty, odoursome or oppressive water or other  such liquid to be sent down or to flow into a river, 
 stream, canal, anicut, well, tank or any drain or by washing out certain oppressive material in them, or in some other 
 way.  
 
18. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any Officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha specially authorized by the   Chairman for 
 the relevant purpose to enter premises relating to the by -law to inspect whether the relevant premises conforms to 
 the by-law. It shall be the duty of the licence holder or the person in charge of the premises to allow such inspection. 
 
19. Through such an inspection where a licensed premise is found to be non -complying to the provisions of these             
 by-laws, it shall be lawful for the Chairman to take action to inform the licence holder in writing to accomplish the 
 necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the proper order before a specified time period . It shall be the 

<!-- page 42 -->

42 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
 duty of the licence holder to take action in accordance with the said notice. If he fails to take action accordingly, the 
 Chairman has power to cancel the licence at such an occasion.  
 
20. It shall be the duty of the Chairman on receipt of an application requesting for a licence to carry on any trade, to 
 issue the licence within 30 days of receiving such application if the premises is in accordance with these by-laws. If 
 the Chairman refuses to issue the licence, it shall be his duty to inform the applicant so, along wi th reasons for his 
 refusal. 
 
21. Every licence holder shall take measures to hang the licence and the list of names and addresses in languages of 
 Sinhala and Tamil of the employees engaged in service at the industry or business relevant to the li cence at a 
 conspicuous place in the licence holding premises. 
 
22. Every notice issued under this by-law shall be served to the owner or caretaker of the said place as the case may be. 
 In the absence of such persons, it shall be hanged on at a place conspicuous at the licenced premise s. It shall not be 
 required to state the name of the premises owner or person using the premises in such notice. 
  
23.  Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence by a 
 court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continue d even further 
 and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a writ ten notice 
 drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the maximum of 
 the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penalty stated under 
 Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. 
 
24. In these By-laws unless the context otherwise requires, 
 
 “Council” means Wattala – Mabola Urban Council ; 
 “Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council; 
 “Urban Council area of authority” means the area in which the Wattala – Mabola Urban Council  has been 
 established; 
 “An authorized officer of Urban Council,” means the officer/ officers authorized by the Chairman of Wattala – 
 Mabola Urban Council  to implement this by-law; 
 “Licence holder” means any person who has been issued a licence to carry on a trade under these By-laws; 
 “Person” includes a group of persons incorporated or unincorporated; 
 “Person assigned with control” means a caretaker, protector, caretaker of property, manager or any o ther person 
 assigned with the task of organizing, control or management of certain business.  
 
25. In case of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 
 
BY LAW RELATING TO RENTING OUT OF MACHINERY OF  
WATTALA – MABOLA URBAN COUNCIL 
 
1. This by-law shall be enforced to allocate provisions for a machinery rent out service by Wattala - Mabola Urban 
 Council and to allocate for matters consequential to it, including levying of charges on such services. . 
 
2. This by-law shall be cited as the By -law Relating to Machinery Renting out Service of Wattala – Mabola Urban 
 Council. 
 
3. A person expecting a machinery renting out service (hereinafter referred to as a ‘service’)within Wattala – Mabola 
 Urban Council, shall apply for it under an application obtained from an officer specifically authori zed by the 
 Council for the said task . 
 
4. The charges for an application under this by law shall be the charges decided and declared from time  to time by the 
 Council. 

<!-- page 43 -->

43A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
5. With regard to an application forwarded expecting a service under this by law and when the Secretary  is satisfied 
 that the ability is there to provide the relevant service under the date and time of request of that  service, it is lawful 
 to provide that service after the payment of specified fees for such service and additional deposit money. 
 
6. Prior to charging the specified charges as per the above Section, the Secretary shall take the follo wing matters into 
 consideration. 
 
 (i) To provide the relevant service on the day and on the time requested for, would not affect the duties and  
  functions of the Council, 
 
 (ii) Whether there are sufficient facilities to provide service requested, 
 
 (iii) Charges have not been levied from another person to provide a service on the same day and  time of the request,  
 
 (iv) Under the request made, the applicant has provided the relevant information in the relevant manner..  
 
7. Specific fees charged under the above Section 5 and the monetary deposits chargeable in relation to each service 
 shall be decided and declared from time to time by way of a resolution passed by the Council. 
 
8.  Where  fees  have been charged in relation to an application forwarded expecting a service, due to t he reason of 
  giving   priority to a  matter  relating  to  public  welfare, if  the  service could  not be  provi ded as agreed upon, 
   action shall be taken to provide the relevant service as soon as possible and according to applicant’s agreement. 
 
9.  When the applicant refuses to obtain the relevant service he/she agreed earlier, and when such refusal is announced 
  two days before the date on which the relevant service was to be given; having retained ten percent from the fee 
  charged, the remaining amount should be released to the applicant. However, when such refusal is made after three 
  days  of  the date of agreement, twenty five percent from the fee charged should be retained while r eleasing the 
   remaining amount to the applicant. 
 
10.  When working in agreement to provide the service, in any case the service -providing could not be made owing to  
  access way being insufficient (based on the details provided by the applicant) or due to any other m atter that relies 
  under applicant’s control,  charges levied initially for such service should not be released. 
 
11.  When  providing a service under this by law, having to provide the service for a time period exceedi ng the time 
   period agreed upon,  or, when certain damage is caused to a machinery or equipment under the applica nt’s or his 
  assistants’ control, if  there be any amount receivable to the Council on behalf of that, having ded ucted the said 
  amount from the deposit money paid by the applicant, the remaining amount should be paid to him with in three 
  days of accomplishment of the service. 
 
12.  When  accomplishing  services  under  this by law, the  applicant  should be responsible with regard  to whatever 
   damage caused to another party on the persuasion or consent of the applicant. 
 
13. When the service hours are calculated under this by law, the Council shall decide and declare from t ime to time 
 about the criteria to be considered in that regard. 
 
14. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence by 
 a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even further 
 and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a writ ten notice 
 drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the maximum 
 of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penal ty stated 
 under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. 
 
15. In this by-law unless the context otherwise requires, 
 
 “Council” means Wattala – Mabola Urban Council ; 

<!-- page 44 -->

44 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
 “Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council; 
 “Authorized officer,” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council  to 
 implement this by-law; 
 “Machinery” means a gully bowser, motor grader, road flattening machine or any other utensil used fo r a technical 
 work or an industry or a similar work.  
 
16. In case of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail.   
 
BY LAW ON MACHINERY SERVICES MAINTAINING PLACES OF  
WATTALA – MABOLA URBAN COUNCIL 
 
1. This by-law shall be enforced to allocate provisions to regularize, supervise, control and levy charges on machinery 
 services maintaining places within Wattala - Mabola Urban Council area of authority.  
 
2. This by-law shall be cited as the By-law on Machinery Services Maintaining Places within Wattala – Mabola Urban 
 Council (hereinafter referred to as the ‘area of authority’).  
 
3. Unless on a licence issued by the Chairman of the Council for the intended purpose, no person shall maintain a 
 Machinery Service Maintaining Place   (hereinafter referred to as the ‘premises’). within Wattala – Mabola Urban 
 Council Area of Authority.  
 
4. (i)  Every person requesting for a licence under this by-law shall apply for it by way of an application  
  conforming to this by-law and obtained from the Council.  
 
 (ii)  The charges for an application under this section shall be the charges decided and declared from tim e 
  to time by the Council.  
 
5. Charges levied for issuance of a licence under this by -law shall be the charges decided and declared by the 
 Council from time to time by way of a proposal-affirmation.  
 
6. Every licence issued under this by-law, unless cancelled earlier, shall be valid up to thirty first of December of 
 the year for which it was issued. 
 
7. Where there is a permanent building in the premises utilized for the task specified in this by -law, it shall be a 
 building constructed according to a plan approved by the Chairman and unless that premises conforms to the                  
 following conditions, no person shall have the right to obtain a licence under this by-law.  
 
 (i) Sufficient spatial facilities should be available to retain, store and park machinery within the pre mises, 
  wherein, the relevant spaces should be allotted specifically. 
 
 (j) There shall be sufficient facilities to park vehicles  
 
 (k) The premises should be constructed in a manner allowing sufficient water drainage. 
 
 (l) Sufficient sanitary facilities shall be provided in the premises. 
 
 (m) Fire extinguishing facilities as specified by the time of plan approval should be provided to the  
  premises. 
 
 (n) Facilities for First-aid should have been provided. 
 
 (o) Should maintain an accidents list.  
 
8. (i)  All the  material  and other required material used for the relevant industry shall be stored withou t 
  causing  bad  smell to emanate or causing any nuisance by every licence holder receiving a licence 
  under this by law. 
 
 (ii)  When  taking away things that can cause offensive odours or nuisances from the licensed premises 
  along public thoroughfares, they shall be taken in closed non -absorbent vessels to prevent odours or 
  nuisances. 

<!-- page 45 -->

45A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
 (iii)  shall  take  adequate  measures  to  release  the  oppressive  sounds, steams  or gases generated in  a 
  production  process  in his  premises  to the air  at a  suitable  height  and in a  manner not to c ause 
  oppressive results when they are dispersed, or shall cause to release them through fire or condensation 
  device.  
 
 (iv)  Inspecting the working condition of machinery by every licence holder shall be from 6.00 a.m.              
   to 6.00  p.m.. 
 
 (v)  Every licence holder shall construct sufficient drains in the premises where his business is conduct ed 
  and maintain them properly and wash them daily. 
 
 (vi)  Every licence holder shall construct the floor of the premises with some opaque material and maintai n 
  them in good repair and shall cause them to be washed daily.  
 
 (vii)  Every  licence  holder  shall  dispose  the  waste  collected  in  the  premises according to the wa ste 
  management program of the Council.. 
 
 (viii)  machinery should not be repaired within the premises. 
 
 (xi)  Every  licence  holder  shall  paint  the  said  spremises annually during the period of conducting his 
  business.  
 
 (x)  Every  licence holder shall keep all the tools including equipment and utensils used in the business  
  activities cleanly. 
 
 (xi)  Every  licence  holder  shall  take measures to collect in covered utensils the waste generated in h is 
  business  premises,  trimmings  and leftover swept and collected, workshop -waste and by -products 
  unless they are used in business activities further and to remove them daily in the manner prescribe d 
  by the Urban Council. 
 
9. Every licence holder shall wash and clean the tanks that are used to wash or soak hides or similar m aterials after 
 emptying them to prevent stinking. 
 
10. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any Officer of the Urban Council specially authorized by the   Chairman for 
 the relevant purpose to enter premises during official hours and to inspect the premises. It shall b e the duty of the 
 licence holder or the person in charge of the premises to allow such inspections. 
 
11. Through such an inspection where a licensed premises is found to be non -complying to the provisions of these by -
 laws, it shall be lawful for the Chairman to take action to inform the licence holder in writing to accomplish the 
 necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the proper order before a specified time period . It shall be the 
 duty of the licence holder to take action in accordance with the said notice. If he fails to take action accordingly, the 
 Chairman has the power to cancel the licence at such an occasion. 
 
 12. It shall be the duty of the Chairman on receipt of an application requesting for a licence to carry on any trade, to 
 issue the licence within 30 days of receiving such application by him if the premises is in accordance with these by-
 laws. If the Chairman refuses to issue the licence it shall be his duty to inform the applicant so, along with reasons 
 for his refusal. 
 
13. Every licence holder shall take measures to hang the licence and the list of names and addresses in languages of 
 Sinhala and Tamil of the employees engaged in service at the industry or business relevant to the li cence, at a 
 conspicuous place in the licence holding premises. 
 
14. Every notice issued under this by-law shall be served to the owner or caretaker of the said place as the case may be. 
 In the absence of such persons, it shall be sufficient to paste it at a conspicuous place in the licenced premises.  
 
15. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence by a 
 court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continue d even further 

<!-- page 46 -->

46 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
 and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a writ ten notice 
 drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the maximum of 
 the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penalty stated under 
 Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. 
 
16. In these By-laws unless the context otherwise requires, 
 
 “Council” means Wattala – Mabola Urban Council ; 
 “Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council; 
 “Urban Council area of authority” means the area in which the Wattala – Mabola Urban Council  has been 
 established; 
 “An authorized officer of Urban Council,” means the officer/ officers authorized by the Chairman of Wattala – 
 Mabola Urban Council  to implement this by-law; 
  “Person assigned with control” means an officer or officers authorized by the Chairman of  Wattala – Mabola 
 Urban Council  to implement this by-law.  
 “Licence holder” means any person who has been issued a licence to carry on a trade under these By-laws; 
 “Person” includes a group of persons incorporated or unincorporated; 
 “Person assigned with control” means a caretaker, protector, caretaker of property, manager or any o ther person 
 assigned with the task of organizing, control or management of certain business. 
 
17. In case of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 
 
BY LAW RELATING TO WOODEN GOODS MANUFACTURING INSTITUTION OF  
WATTALA – MABOLA URBAN COUNCIL 
 
 
1. This by-law shall be enforced to allocate provisions to regulate the maintenance of , supervise, control and  levy 
 charges on institutions manufacturing wooden goods within Wattala - Mabola Urban Council area of authority. 
  
2. This by -law shall be named as the By -law Relating to Wooden Goods Manufacturing Institutions within 
 Wattala - Mabola Urban Council Area of Authority. 
 
3. Unless on a licence issued by the Chairman of the Council for the intended purpose, no person shall maintain a 
 Wooden Goods Manufacturing Institution within Wattala – Mabola Urban Council Area of Authority  (hereinafter 
 referred to as ‘area of authority’).  
 
4. Every licence issued under this by -law, unless cancelled earlier, shall be valid up to thirty first of December of the 
 year for which it was issued.  
 
5. (i)  Every  person  requesting  for a  licence  under this  by-law shall  apply for it by way of an application  
  conforming to this by-law and obtained from the Council.  
 
 (ii)  The  charges for  an application under this section shall be the charges decided and declared from time  
  to time by the Council.  
 
6. Charges levied for issuance of a licence under this by-law shall be the charges decided and declared by the Council 
 from time to time by way of a proposal-affirmation.  
 
7. Where there is a permanent building in the premises utilized for the task specified in this by -law, it shall be a 
 building constructed according to a plan approved by the Chairman and unless that premises conforms to the 
 following conditions, no person shall have the right to obtain a licence under this by-law.  

<!-- page 47 -->

47A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
   (i) The  premises  should be  of  proper  renovated  condition and  constructed  in a manner allowing 
     sufficient air and light into it and every room, when opened, shall consist of windows that have an 
     area of one    fifteenth from floor area of the room.  
 
   (ii) While   the   height   of  the  walls  of  all  rooms shall not be less than 2.14 Meters and built w ith 
     bricks, granite, cabook blocks or cement blocks. Insides of the walls shall have been plastered with  
     cement and the remaining part plastered with mortar applied with paints.   
 
     (iii) The end of eaves shall be more than 2 Meters above the floor level; 
 
    (iv) The roof shall be made of some solid material; 
 
    (v) All the wood work should be applied with paints.  
 
    (vi) The entire floor should be constructed with some solid material. 
 
    (vii) The premises should be constructed in a manner allowing sufficient water drainage. 
 
  (viii) Sanitary bins and sufficient lavatory facilities shall be provided in the premises. 
 
  (ix) Sufficient fire extinguishing facilities should be provided to the premises. 
 
   (x) There shall be sufficient facilities to park vehicles  
 
  (xi) First-aid facilities should be provided.  
 
  (xii) Should maintain an accidents list.  
 
8. Every licence holder holding a licence under this by-law:  
 
 (xliv)  Shall maintain the waste collected within the premises in closed bins and not causing nuisance until  they 
  are disposed properly.  
 
 (xiv) The  material required for the industry should be kept stored in the premises without any dangerous or 
  harmful manner.  
 
 (xlvi) Provided that all the waste material produced at the licenced premises are recycled, action shall be taken to 
  categorize the waste material under the following categories and maintain them in separate bins., 
 
 (a)  bio degradable waste ; 
 (b) glass ; 
 (c) paper; 
 (d) polythene or plastic ; 
 (e) iron or other kinds of metal; 
 (f) hazardous waste ; 
  
 (xlvii) Employees  employed  in  the  institution  shall  have been provided with face masks, gloves and oth er 
  required safety attire and they should be worn at the time of duty.  
 
 
 (xlviii) A health insurance program relating to every employee shall be put into operation Waste disposed fro m 
  the  premises  should  be  disposed  according  to  the waste management program implemented by the 
  Council. 
 
 (xlix) Equipment  used  for  the  manufacturing  process  shall  be maintained under proper maintenance and  
  security. 

<!-- page 48 -->

48 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
 (l)  Proposal- reports  from a  reputed  institution  about  fire  protection  measures of the premises shall be 
  obtained every six months.  
 
9.  All the material and other required material used for the relevant industry shall be stored without causing bad smell 
 to emanate or causing any nuisance by every licence holder. 
 
10. Every licence holder shall take adequate measures to release the oppressive sounds, steams or gases generated in a 
 production process in his premises to the air at a suitable height and in a manner not to cause oppr essive results 
 when they are dispersed, or shall cause to release them through fire or condensation device. 
 
11. Every licence holder shall construct sufficient drains in the premises where his business is conduct ed and maintain 
 them properly and wash them daily. 
 
12. Every licence holder shall construct the floor of the premises with some opaque material and maintain them in good 
 repair and shall cause them to be washed daily. 
 
13. Every licence holder shall paint the said premises annually during the period of conducting his business. 
 
14. Every licence holder shall keep all the tools including equipment and utensils used in the trading activities cleanly. 
 
15.  Every licence holder shall take measures to collect in covered utensils the waste generated in his business premises, 
  trimmings  and l eftover swept and collected, workshop -waste and by -products unless they are used in business 
   activities further, and to remove them daily in the manner prescribed by the Chairman.  
  
16. Every licence holder shall wash and clean the tanks that are used to wash or soak hides or similar m aterials after 
 emptying them to prevent stinking. 
 
17. Every licence holder shall ensure that any river, stream, canal, anicut, well, tank or any reservoir will not be polluted 
 by causing certain dirty, odoursome or oppressive water or other  such liquid to be sent down or to flow into a river, 
 stream, canal, anicut, well, tank or any drain or by washing out certain oppressive material in them, or in some other 
 way.  
 
18. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any Officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha specially authorized by the   Chairman for 
 the relevant purpose to enter premises relating to the by -law to inspect whether the relevant premises conforms to 
 the by-law. It shall be the duty of the licence holder or the person in charge of the premises to allow such inspection. 
 
19. Through such an inspection where a licensed premise is found to be non -complying to the provisions of these                   
 by-laws, it shall be lawful for the Chairman to take action to inform the licence holder in writing to accomplish the 
 necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the proper order before a specified time period . It shall be the 
 duty of the licence holder to take action in accordance with the said notice. If he fails to take ac tion accordingly, the 
 Chairman has power to cancel the licence at such an occasion.  
 
20.  It shall be the duty of the Chairman on receipt of an application requesting for a licence to carry on any trade, to 
 issue the licence within 30 days of receiving such application by him if the premises is in accordan ce with these              
 by-laws. If the Chairman refuses to issue the licence it shall be his duty to inform the applicant so, along with 
 reasons for his refusal.  
 
21. Every licence holder shall take measures to hang the licence and the list of names and addresses in languages of 
 Sinhala and Tamil of the employees engaged in service at the industry or business relevant to the li cence at a 
 conspicuous place in the licence holding premises. 
 
22. Every notice issued under this by-law shall be served to the owner or caretaker of the said place as the case may be. 
 In the absence of such persons, it shall be pasted on at a place conspicuous at the licenced premise s. It shall not be 
 required to state the name of the premises, owner or person using the premises in such notice.   
23. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence by 
 a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even further 

<!-- page 49 -->

49A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
 and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a writ ten notice 
 drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the maximum 
 of  the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penalty stated 
 under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. 
 
 
24. In this by-law unless the context otherwise requires, 
 
 “Council” means Wattala – Mabola Urban Council ; 
 “Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council; 
 “Urban Council area of authority” means the area in which the Wattala – Mabola Urban Council  has been 
 established; 
 “An authorized officer of Urban Council,” means the officer/ officers authorized by the Chairman of Wattala – 
 Mabola Urban Council  to implement this by-law; 
 “Licensee” means any person who has been issued a licence to carry on a trade under these By-laws; 
 “Person” includes a group of persons incorporated or unincorporated; 
 “Person assigned with control” means a caretaker, protector, caretaker of property, manager or any o ther person 
 assigned with the task of organizing, control or management of certain business.  
 
25. In case of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 
 
BY LAW RELATING TO LATHE MACHINE WORKSHOP AND IRON RELATED  
INDUSTRIES OF WATTALA – MABOLA URBAN COUNCIL 
 
 
1. This by-law shall be enforced to allocate provisions to regularize the maintenance of lathe machine workshop 
 and iron related industries within Wattala - Mabola Urban Council area of authority; and to supervise, control and 
 levy charges on such institutions.  
 
2. This by-law shall be named as the By-law Relating to Lathe Machine Workshop and Iron Related Industry  within 
 Wattala - Mabola Urban Council Area of Authority. 
 
3. Unless on a licence issued by the Chairman of the Council for the intended purpose, no person shall maintain a 
 lathe machine workshop and  Iron Related Industry  within Wattala – Mabola Urban Council Area of Authority 
 (hereinafter referred to as ‘area of authority’).  
 
4. Every licence issued under this by-law, unless cancelled earlier, shall be valid up to thirty first of December of the 
 year for which it was issued.  
 
5. (i)  Every person requesting for a licence under this by-law shall apply for it by way of an application conforming 
  to this by-law and obtained from the Council.  
 
 (ii)  The charges for an application under this section shall be the charges decided and declared from tim e to time 
  by the Council.  
 
6. Charges levied for issuance of a licence under this by-law shall be the charges decided and declared by the Council 
 from time to time by way of a proposal-affirmation.  
 
7. Where there is a permanent building in the premises utilized for the task specified in this by -law, it shall be a 
 building constructed according to a plan approved by the Chairman and unless that premises conforms to the 
 following conditions, no person shall have the right to obtain a licence under this by-law.  

<!-- page 50 -->

50 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
 (v) The premises should be of proper renovated condition and constructed in a manner allowing sufficient air and 
  light into it and every room, when opened, shall consist of windows that have an area of one fifteen th from 
  floor area of the room.  
 
 (ii) While the height of the walls of all rooms shall not be less than 2.14 Meters and built with bricks,  granite, 
  cabook blocks or cement blocks. Insides of the walls shall have been plastered with cement and the remaining 
  part plastered with mortar applied with paints.   
 
  (iii) The end of eaves shall be more than 2 Meters above the floor level; 
 
  (iv) The roof shall be made of some solid material; 
 
  (v) All the wood work should be applied with paints.  
 
  (vi) The entire floor should be constructed with some solid material. 
 
 (vii) The premises should be constructed in a manner allowing sufficient water drainage. 
 
 (viii) Sanitary bins and sufficient lavatory facilities shall be provided in the premises. 
 
 (ix) Sufficient fire extinguishing facilities should be provided to the premises. 
 
  (x) There shall be sufficient facilities to park vehicles  
 
  (xi) First-aid facilities should be provided.  
 
 (xii) Should maintain an accidents list.  
 
8. Every licence holder holding a licence under this by-law:  
 
 (li) Shall maintain the waste collected within the premises in closed bins and not causing nuisance until  they are 
  disposed properly.  
 
 (lii) The material required for the industry should be kept stored in the premises without any dangerous or harmful 
  manner.  
 
 (liii) Provided that all the waste material produced at the licenced premises are recycled, action shall be  taken to 
  categorize the waste material under the following categories and maintain them in separate bins., 
 
  (a)  bio degradable waste ; 
 (b)  glass ; 
 (c)  paper; 
 (d)  polythene or plastic ; 
 (e)  iron or other kinds of metal; 
 (f)  hazardous waste ; 
 (liv) Employees employed in the institution shall have been provided with face masks, gloves and other 
  required safety attire and they should be worn at the time of duty.  
 
 (lv) A health  insurance program relating to every employee shall be put into operation Waste disposed 
  from the premises should be disposed  according to the waste management program implemented by 
  the Council. 
 
 (lvi) Equipment  used  for  the manufacturing process shall be maintained under proper maintenance and
  security. 
 
 (lvii) Proposal- reports from a reputed institution about fire protection measures of the premises  shall be 
  obtained every six months.  

<!-- page 51 -->

51A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
9. All the material and other required material used for the relevant industry shall be stored without causing bad smell 
 to emanate or causing any nuisance by every licence holder. 
 
10. Every licence holder shall take adequate measures to release the oppressive sounds, steams or gases generated in a 
 production process in his premises to the air at a suitable height and in a manner not to cause oppr essive results 
 when they are dispersed, or shall cause to release them through fire or condensation device. 
 
11. Every licence holder shall construct sufficient drains in the premises where his business is conduct ed and maintain 
 them properly and wash them daily. 
 
 12. Every licence holder shall construct the floor of the premises with some opaque material and maintai n them in 
 good repair and shall cause them to be washed daily. 
 
13. Every licence holder shall paint the said premises annually during the period of conducting his business. 
 
14. Every licence holder shall keep all the tools including equipment and utensils used in the trading activities cleanly. 
 
15. Every licence holder shall take measures to collect in covered utensils the waste generated in his business premises, 
 trimmings and leftover swept and collected, workshop -waste and by -products unless they are used in business 
 activities further, and to remove them daily in the manner prescribed by the Chairman.  
  
16. Every licence holder shall wash and clean the tanks that are used to wash or soak hides or similar m aterials after 
 emptying them to prevent stinking. 
 
17. Every licence holder shall ensure that any river, stream, canal, anicut, well, tank or any reservoir will not be polluted 
 by causing certain dirty, odoursome or oppressive water or other  such liquid to be sent down or to flow into a river, 
 stream, canal, anicut, well, tank or any drain or by washing out certain oppressive material in them, or in some other 
 way.  
 
18. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any Officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha specially authorized by t he   Chairman 
 for the relevant purpose to enter premises relating to the by -law to inspect whether the relevant premises conforms 
 to the by -law. It shall be the duty of the licence holder or the person in charge of the premises to allow suc h 
 inspection. 
 
19. Through such an inspection where a licensed premise is found to be non -complying to the provisions of these by -
 laws, it shall be lawful for the Chairman to take action to inform the licence holder in writing to accomplish the 
 necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the proper order before a specified time period . It shall be the 
 duty of the licence holder to take action in accordance with the said notice. If he fails to take action accordingly, the 
 Chairman has power to cancel the licence at such an occasion.  
 
20.  It shall be the duty of the Chairman on receipt of an application requesting for a licence to carry on any trade, to 
 issue the licence within 30 days of receiving such application by him if the premises is in accordance with these by-
 laws. If the Chairman refuses to issue the licence it shall be his duty to inform the applicant so, along with reasons 
 for his refusal.  
 
21. Every licence holder shall take measures to hang the licence and the list of names and addresses in languages of 
 Sinhala and Tamil of the employees engaged in service at the industry or business relevant to the li cence at a 
 conspicuous place in the licence holding premises. 
 
22. Every notice issued under this by-law shall be served to the owner or caretaker of the said place as the case may be. 
 In the absence of such persons, it shall be pasted on at a place conspicuous at the licenced premise s. It shall not be 
 required to state the name of the premises, owner or person using the premises in such notice. 
  
23. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence by 
 a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even further 
 and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a writ ten notice 

<!-- page 52 -->

52 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
 drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the maximum 
 of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penal ty stated 
 under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. 
 
24. In this by-law unless the context otherwise requires, 
 
 “Council” means Wattala – Mabola Urban Council ; 
 “Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council; 
 “Urban Council area of authority” means the area in which the Wattala – Mabola Urban Council  has been 
 established; 
 “An authorized officer of Urban Council,” means the officer/ officers authorized by the Chairman of Wattala – 
 Mabola Urban Council  to implement this by-law; 
 “Licensee” means any person who has been issued a licence to carry on a trade under these By-laws; 
 “Person” includes a group of persons incorporated or unincorporated; 
 “Person assigned with control” means a caretaker, protector, caretaker of property, manager or any o ther person 
 assigned with the task of organizing, control or management of certain business.  
 
25. In case of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 
 
 
BY LAW ON PUBLIC LIBRARIES OF WATTALA – MABOLA URBAN COUNCIL 
 
1. This by law shall be enforced to make provisions to maintain a library service by Wattala – Mabola Urban Council 
 for the urban council area of authority, including matters consequential to it.  
 
2. This by law shall be cited as the By law on Library Services of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council.  
 
3. The public library service of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council may consist of the following sections and services. 
 
 (i)  Lending section 
 (ii)  Reference section  
 (iii)  Children’s section  
 (iv)  Magazine section and Newspaper section  
 (v)  Audio-visual and Information Technology section  
 (vi)  Study section  
 (vii)  Archives Section 
 (viii)  Specific collection and Regional collection  
 (ix)  Information and documentation services  
 (x)  Mobile library service  
 (xi)  Photocopy service 
 (xii) Internet service  
 (xiii)  Other information services  
 (xiv) Community information service  
 
4. There shall be a Librarian for the main public library of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council and for library branches 
 functioning under it.  The person appointed thus shall take action pertaining to organization, manag ement and 
 proper maintenance of all the services of public library and library branches attached to it as well  as of reading 
 halls.  
 
5. There shall be a library consulting committee hereinafter referred to as “Committee” to consult and guide the chief 
 librarian to properly maintain the public library service of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council, hereinafter referred to 
 as “library service”.  

<!-- page 53 -->

53A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
6. (i) The consulting committee for library service shall consist of the following composition: 
 
 (a) Chairman 
 (b) Two Councilors from among the Councilors of the Council; decided by the Council 
 (c) Three important persons residing in the council area of authority; decided by the Council  
 (d) Three religious leaders 
 (e) Secretary of the Urban Council 
 (f) Community Development Officer  
 (g) Chief Librarian of the Council  
 (h) Chairmen of library reader’s associations 
 (i) A Principal from a school located in the area of authority 
 
 (ii)  The quorum for the Consulting Committee is one third from the total number of members  
 
 (iii) Chairman shall ex-officio become the chairman of the Consulting Committee, and shall preside in every  
  meeting. In the absence of the Chairman, a member selected and appointed from the members present, s hall 
  preside the relevant meeting.  
 
 (iv) The Secretary of the Council shall become the convener for the Consulting Committee, whereas th e Librarian 
  of the Urban Council’s main library shall become the Secretary of the Committee 
 
7. (i)  whoever person expecting the library service, shall apply to the Librarian to obtain its membership by way of 
  an application obtained from the library.  
 
 (ii) unless the application forwarded to obtain the membership has been certified by a person stated below and  
  filled duly, he/she shall not be granted with library membership. 
 
 (a)  A member of the Library Consulting Committee   
 (b)  A religious leader 
 (c)  A Councilor representing the Council  
 (d)  An attorney-at-law or Justice of Peace   
 (e)  A Staff Officer of public or provincial public service  
 (f)  In case of school applicant, the class-teacher or Principal of the school  
 
8. Regarding the services of the Lending Section of the library service,   
 
 (i) Unless  he is a  library member possessing a membership card, obtained after paying the fees decided  and 
  declared from time to time by the Council upon a resolution passed therein, no other person shall be included 
  as a member of the library’s lending section.  
 
 (ii) A  person  requesting  for a  membership  at the  lending  library  service, shall  apply  for it by  way of an 
  application issued by the Council and every such person;    
 
 (a)  should have an appropriate guarantor signed in the application,  
 (b)  Should have exceeded 03 years of age, 
 (c)  should be a resident of urban council area of authority or a person engaged in a permanent job withi n the 
   urban council area of authority.  
 
 (iii)  The  maximum number of books issuable for a membership card at a time at the lending library should be 
  equal  to the number of books marked specifically in the cards. However, the number of books issuable at a 
  time for a senior citizen member should be four.   
 
 (iv)  In place of a guarantor required by this section,  the Principal of the school may be considered with regard to 
  a school  applicant,  whereas,  it  shall  be  lawful  to  have been paid to the Council a specified  amount of 
  guarantee money, decided by the Council.   
 

<!-- page 54 -->

54 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
9. With regard to every book obtained by a member under the cards issued to him by a lending library, t he relevant 
 member shall personally hold the responsibility.  
 
10. In case a member of the lending library loses the cards issued to him under the above by laws, he sh all inform the 
 Librarian regarding such loss. If the Librarian is satisfied that a book has not been borrowed from the lending 
 library to the said card, the member will be issued with a new card. Unless a 30 day lapse has taken  place from the 
 date of notifying the loss of the card, the Librarian shall not issue a new card.  
 
11. A book obtained from the library by a member of the lending section shall hand it over to the Librar ian within a 
 time period of 14 days from the date of its borrowing. If such book has not been requested by anothe r member and 
 if the person obtained it request for an extension, the Librarian shall allow the said member to bor row the book for 
 a period of 14 days.   
 
12. Where returning of a book borrowed from the lending section is being defaulted further even after th e specified 
 time period or after the extension time period, in such occasion, it shall be lawful to charge an ad ditional fee as 
 decided by the Council in relation to the time period the book’s return has been defaulted.  
 
13. Where a member has defaulted returning of a book borrowed from the lending library within a time period of  30 
 days, that book shall deem to have been lost.  
 
14. When a book borrowed by a member is lost or considered as lost, expenses related to repurchasing of such book 
 and a departmental charge of 25% from that book’s current value should be paid by that member. If th e lost 
 book was a bound one, binding charges shall be levied separately. 
 
15. A member should not damage a book borrowed from the lending library or distort it in any way.  
 
16. It shall be the responsibility of every member to inform the Librarian about a damage or distortion caused to a 
 book he/she expects to borrow from the lending section.  Where notifying the Librarian with regard t o such 
 damage or distortion has been defaulted by any member, such book should be considered as issued with out 
 damage or distortion.  
 
17. Where the Librarian is satisfied that a book returned by a member has been damaged or distorted by t he 
 member to a degree it is inappropriate to issue again, that member is bound to bear the expenses req uired for re-
 purchasing of such book. After re -purchasing the said book, the damaged book should be stamped as “a 
 damaged book sold by the Public Library” and hand it over to the said member.  
 
18. No member shall transfer a book or card obtained from the lending section. 
 
19. No book known  to be used  by a person suffering from a contagious or infectious disease, shall not be returned 
 to  the library by any member, whereas, the expenses incurred in re -supply of the same book shall be paid by the 
 member. 
 
20. Where there is a controversy, created between two members or more in the lending library as to which  member 
 should be given a particular book, the Librarian’s decision regarding such matter shall be the final decision.  
 
21. When a member expects to borrow a book taken away by another member; he shall write his name and nam e of 
 the book in a register allocated to that task.  
 
 When the member who has taken away the said book returns it; the Librarian shall issue it to the member who  has 
 written down his name in the register. Where the names of two or more than two members have been  written down 
 in the register, the said book should be issued to them in the order of names written down in the re levant 
 register. 
 
22. A member who releases himself from the qualifications required for the membership at the lending sec tion, he 
 shall forward the relevant membership card to the Librarian to get his membership terminated. 

<!-- page 55 -->

55A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
23. The functioning date and time period of the lending section may be decided by the Council from time to time  and 
 recommendations of Library Consulting Committee should be obtained in that regard. Further, it shall  be the duty 
 of the Chief Librarian to suitably inform all the members in that regard. 
 
24. When a book borrowed by someone has not been returned based on the following mentioned reasons, the 
 decision pertaining to charging for or removal of the said book from the register shall be taken by the Council on 
 the recommendation of the Library Consulting Committee. 
  
 (i) On the death of the member. 
 (ii) Due to natural disaster such as floods, fires, landslides and hurricanes.  
  (iii)When it has been established that a certain book borrowed by a member has not yet been returned,  
 wherein, the whereabouts of the member is not known for he has changed his residence and all the  
 efforts have been taken to retrieve the said book.  
 
25. Days of closure for the lending library shall be decided by the Council from time to time.  
 
 
Reference Section 
 
26. The opening hours for the reference section shall be decided by the Council on the recommendations o f the 
 Consulting Committee and it should have been announced to make it a well -known fact. Unless the Librarian’s 
 permission has been obtained to use the reference section library, or signed in the register kept in  the reference 
 section no member of the library shall use the reference library.  
 
27. Nobody shall take a book issued to him for reading by the reference library shall be taken out of th e reference 
 library.  
 
28. Books of following nature should be included into the reference library.  
 
 (i) Books that have already been approved by the Library Services Board as suitable for the reference  
  section. 
 (ii) Except novels and short stories, scarce books with a greater value.  
 (iii) Books belonging to the subjects of medicine, accounting, law and other specific subjects such as  
  science 
 (iv) Books recommended by the Librarian to be included into the reference section and received approval 
  of the Library Consulting Committee. 
  
Reading Hall 
 
29 (i) No  person   shall  use  the   reading  hall  unless he has obtained the permission of the Librarian  or 
  authorized officers for the relevant task and signed in the register kept in the reading hall. 
 
 (ii) Anyone not below 08 years of age may be allowed to use the reading hall. 
 
30. No newspaper, quarterly, magazine, map, Gazette paper or part of it or any other document kept in the reading 
 hall or belonging to the reading hall shall not be removed by anyone from the reading hall. 
  
 
Children’s Section 
 
31. A section for reading for children below 12 years of age may be maintained separately. 
 
32. Children’s books should be supplied within this section to increase children’s interest in reading. 

<!-- page 56 -->

56 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
33. On recommendations of the Library Consulting Committee, special programs may be put into operation f or the 
 development of the children’s section. 
 
Mobile Section 
 
34. A mobile library service may be conducted by the Urban Council targeting community boards. 
 
35. The Urban Council shall subject to the recommendations of  the Library Consulting Committee  with regard to 
 maintaining a mobile library.  
 
36. Mobile library maintained by the Urban Council shall consist of a lending section and all the provis ions stated 
 in this by law with regard to the lending section, with slight changes where necessary, be applicabl e to the 
 mobile library. 
 
 
37. It shall be the duty of the Mobile Librarian’s and Assistant Librarian’s to prepare a monthly report pertaining to 
 the functioning of the mobile library including details of issuances and retrievals and to submit it  to the Chief 
 Librarian.   
 
38. An annual survey on library’s assets should be carried out by the relevant local government authority.  
 
39. The minimum number of members for the Library Survey Board should be three, whereas, the maximum 
 number of members should consist of odd number according to the requirement. One member of this surv ey 
 board shall be a representative of Assistant District Local Government Commissioner’s representative.   
 
40. Survey lists to be presented before the Board of Survey should be completed before 15 th of January of the 
 following year and should be submitted to the Council by the Librarian.  
 
41. Subsequent to presentation of the library survey list, for a particular year, having appointed the survey board as 
 at 10th December of the previous year and having completed the Board of Survey affairs as at 31st January of the 
 relevant year, the relevant report should be presented to the Council.    
 
42. Implementing the recommendations of the survey board prior to 15 th of March of the relevant year subsequent 
 to the report of the survey board is accepted by the Council, and reporting to the Commissioner of L ocal 
 Government about it shall be the duty of the Chief Librarian. 
 
43. A person suffering from a contagious disease or epidemic disease or skin disease or has recently suf fered from 
 such disease or has recently nursed a patient suffering such disease shall not enter any section of the library 
 until the incubation period or contamination period of such disease elapses. 
 
44. No one shall -  
 
 (i)  behave in unsuitable manner or do any nuisance inside the library or near it, or   
 (ii)  cause damage or distort in any manner within the library or any part or property of the urban counci l 
   building lying adjacent to it, or 
 (iii)  retain in or loiter in the library premises after its closure without telling any acceptable detail about 
   oneself,  or  
 (iv)  smoke or spit within the premises of library, or 
 (v)  engage in gambling or in any other sport within the library premises  
 (vi)  trouble library users by yelling or singing or by making any other sound inside the library, or 
 (vii)  enter library in dirty manner, or  
 (viii) bring in a dog or any other animal to the library, or 
 (ix)  sleep in any part of the library or eat food, or  
 (x)  obstruct the Librarian or other person functioning on his instructions to legally use powers assigne d to 
   him under these by laws. 

<!-- page 57 -->

57A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
45. Contravening whatever provision under Section 44 of this by law deem to be an offence and subsequent  to 
 being convicted before a Magistrate Court with regard to such offence, he/she shall subject to a pen alty under 
 Section 153 of Urban Councils Ordinance.  
 
46. Charges levied for photocopy services provided under the library service and in relation to other in formation 
 services shall be the charges decided and declared by the Council from time to time   after a resolution passed in 
 the Council.  
 
47. Unless relevant fees are paid and relevant receipts are forwarded with regard to service charges pay able under 
 Section 46 above, no person shall be considered as have a right to the relevant service.  
 
48. Whoever library member expecting the services under the reference section, audio -visual and information 
 communication  section,  academic  section, special collection and regional collection and Informati on and 
 documentation services, shall not use books under the respective section unless he/she has obtained the 
 permission from the Chief Librarian or Librarian in charge of the relevant section and after stating  his/her 
 identity in the register kept at the relevant section.   
 
49. A book or other library material issued to one under the sections explained in Section 48 shall not be taken out 
 of the relevant section. However, when a photocopy service is in operation, with the permission of t he Chief 
 Librarian or Librarian in charge of the relevant section and under the custody of an officer named b y him/her, 
 taking out a book for the purpose of photocopying shall be legal.  
 
  
50. Based on the recommendations of the Library Consultation Committee, the Council shall decide the days of the 
 week and time periods to keep open the Reading Hall functioning under the Library service, whereas, any 
 person above 8 years of age wanting to use it may use it by stating down his/ her identity in the re gister kept at 
 the Reading hall.  
  
51. In this By-law unless the context otherwise requires, 
 
 “Library” means the Central Library, Public Library maintained by  Wattala – Mabola Urban Council ; 
 “Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council; 
 “Authorized officer” means the officer specifically authorized by the Librarian  
 
52.  In case of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail.. 
 
BY LAW RELATING TO VEHICLE PAINTING AND TINKERING PLACES OF  
WATTALA – MABOLA URBAN COUNCIL 
 
 
1. This by-law shall be enforced to allocate provisions to regulate the maintenance of , supervision, control a nd levy 
 charges on Vehicle Painting  and tinkering  places  within Wattala - Mabola Urban Council area of authority. 
 
2. This by-law shall be named as the By -law Relating to Vehicle Painting and Tinkering  Places  within Wattala - 
 Mabola Urban Council Area of Authority. 
 
3. No person shall maintain vehicle painting and tinkering places within  Wattala – Mabola Urban Council Area of 
 Authority (hereinafter referred to as ‘area of authority’) unless he possesses a license issued by t he Chairman 
 assigning power to do so. 
 
4. Every licence issued under this by -law, unless cancelled earlier, shall be valid up to thirty first of December of the 
 year for which it was issued.  

<!-- page 58 -->

58 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
 (i)  Every person requesting for a licence under this by-law shall apply for it by way of an application conforming 
  to this by-law and obtained from the Council.  
 
 (ii)  The charges for an application under this section shall be the charges decided and declared from tim e to time 
  by the Council.  
 
6. Charges levied for issuance of a licence under this by -law shall be the charges decided and declared by the Council 
 from time to time by way of a proposal-affirmation.  
 
7. Where there is a permanent building in the premises utilized for the task specified in this by -law, it shall be a 
 building constructed according to a plan approved by the Chairman and unless that premises conforms to the  
 following conditions, no person shall have the right to obtain a licence under this by-law.  
 
 (i) The premises should be of proper renovated condition and constructed in a manner allowing sufficient air and 
  light into it and every room, when opened, shall consist of windows that have an area of one fifteen th from 
  floor area of the room.  
 
 (ii) While the height of the walls of all rooms shall not be less than 2.14 Meters and built with bricks,  granite, 
  cabook blocks or cement blocks. Insides of the walls shall have been plastered with cement and the remaining 
  part plastered with mortar applied with paints.   
 
  (iii) The end of eaves shall be more than 2 Meters above the floor level; 
 
  (iv) The roof shall be made of some solid material; 
 
  (v) All the wood work should be applied with paints.  
 
  (vi) The entire floor should be constructed with some solid material. 
 
  (vii) The premises should be constructed in a manner allowing sufficient water drainage. 
  
 (viii) Sanitary bins and sufficient lavatory facilities shall be provided in the premises. 
 
 (ix) Sufficient fire extinguishing facilities should be provided to the premises. 
 
  (x) There shall be sufficient facilities to park vehicles  
 
  (xi) First-aid facilities should be provided.  
 
 (xii) Should maintain an accidents list.  
 
8. Every licence holder holding a licence under this by-law: 
 
 (lviii) Shall maintain the waste collected within the premises in closed bins and not causing  
 nuisance until they are disposed properly.  
 
 (lix) The material required for the industry should be kept stored in the premises without any  
 dangerous or harmful manner.  
 
 (lx) Provided that all the waste material produced at the licenced premises are recycled, action shall be  taken to 
  categorize the waste material under the following categories and maintain them in separate bins., 
 
(a)  bio degradable waste ; 
(b)  glass ; 
(c)  paper; 

<!-- page 59 -->

59A IV(A) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 04..06.2019 
(d)  polythene or plastic ; 
(e)  iron or other kinds of metal; 
(f)  hazardous waste ; 
 
(lxi) Employees employed in the institution shall have been provided with face masks, gloves  and other re quired 
 safety attire and they should be worn at the time of duty.  
 
(lxii) A health insurance program relating to every employee shall be put into operation Waste disposed fro m the 
 premises should be disposed  according to the waste management program implemented by the Council. 
 
(lxiii) Equipment used for the manufacturing process shall be maintained under proper maintenance and security. 
 
(lxiv) Proposal- reports from a reputed institution about fire protection measures of the premises shall be obtained every 
 six months.  
 
9. All the material and other required material used for the relevant industry shall be stored without causing bad 
 smell to emanate or causing any nuisance by every licence holder. 
 
10. Every licence holder shall take adequate measures to release the oppressive sounds, steams or gases generated in a 
 production process in his premises to the air at a suitable height and in a manner not to cause oppr essive results 
 when they are dispersed, or shall cause to release them through fire or condensation device. 
 
11. Every licence holder shall construct sufficient drains in the premises where his business is conduct ed and 
 maintain them properly and wash them daily. 
 
12. Every licence holder shall construct the floor of the premises with some opaque material and maintai n them in 
 good repair and shall cause them to be washed daily. 
 
 
13. Every licence holder shall paint the said premises annually during the period of conducting his business. 
 
14. Every licence holder shall keep all the tools including equipment and utensils used in the trading a ctivities 
 cleanly. 
 
15. Every licence holder shall take measures to collect in covered utensils the waste generated in his b usiness 
 premises, trimmings and leftover swept and collected, workshop -waste and by-products unless they are used in 
 business activities further, and to remove them daily in the manner prescribed by the Chairman.  
  
16. Every licence holder shall wash and clean the tanks that are used to wash or soak hides or similar m aterials after 
 emptying them to prevent stinking. 
 
17. Every licence holder shall ensure that any river, stream, canal, anicut, well, tank or any reservoir  will not be 
 polluted by causing certain dirty, odoursome or oppressive water or other  such liquid to be sent do wn or to flow 
 into a river, stream, canal, anicut, well, tank or any drain or by washing out certain oppressive ma terial in them, 
 or in some other way.  
 
18. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any Officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha specially authorized by the   Chairman 
 for the relevant purpose to enter premises relating to the by -law to inspect whether the relevant premises 
 conforms to the by-law. It shall be the duty of the licence holder or the person in charge of the premises to allow 
 such inspection. 
 
19. Through such an inspection where a licensed premise is found to be non-complying to the provisions of these by-
 laws, it shall be lawful for the Chairman to take action to inform the licence holder in writing to accomplish the 
 necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the proper order before a specified time period. It shall be the 

<!-- page 60 -->

60 A IV(A)  ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.06.04 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2019 
 duty of the licence holder to take action in accordance with the said notice. If he fails to take ac tion accordingly, 
 the Chairman has power to cancel the licence at such an occasion.  
 
 20. It shall be the duty of the Chairman on receipt of an application requesting for a licence to carry on any trade, to 
 issue the licence within 30 days of receiving such application by him if the premises is in accordan ce with these 
 by-laws. If the Chairman refuses to issue the licence it shall be his duty to inform the applicant so, along with 
 reasons for his refusal. 
 
21,. Every licence holder shall take measures to hang the licence and the list of names and addresses in languages of 
 Sinhala and Tamil of the employees engaged in service at the industry or business relevant to the li cence at a 
 conspicuous place in the licence holding premises. 
 
22. Every notice issued under this by -law shall be served to the owner or caretaker of the said place as the case may 
 be. In the absence of such persons, it shall be pasted on at a place conspicuous at the licenced pre mises. It shall 
 not be required to state the name of the premises, owner or person using the premises in such notice. 
  
23. Contravention of any provisions of this by -law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence 
 by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is con tinued even 
 further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serve s a written 
 notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contrave ntion, the 
 maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the addition al 
 penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. 
 
24. In this by-law unless the context otherwise requires, 
 
 “Council” means Wattala – Mabola Urban Council ; 
 “Chairman” means the Chairman of Wattala – Mabola Urban Council; 
 “Urban Council area of authority” means the area in which the Wattala – Mabola Urban Council  has been 
 established; 
 “An authorized officer of Urban Council,” means the officer/ officers authorized by the Chairman of Wattala – 
  Mabola Urban Council  to implement this by-law; 
 “Licensee” means any person who has been issued a licence to carry on a trade under these By-laws; 
 “Person” includes a group of persons incorporated or unincorporated; 
 “Person assigned with control” means a caretaker, protector, caretaker of property, manager or any o ther person 
 assigned with the task of organizing, control or management of certain business.  
 
25. In case of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 
 
06 - 529 
 
 
 
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA. 