

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.03.2016
w;s úfYI
wxl 1959$9 - 2016 ud¾;= ui 23 jeks nodod - 2016'03'23
No.1959/9  - WEDNESDAY  MARCH  23,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 1A
EASTERN   PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Rules and Regulations issued under the provisions of Eastern  Province Passenger Transport Authority
Ordinance No. 2 of 2009
I, do hereby publish the above notice of rules and regulations as per authority vested to me under the provisions of Eastern
Province Passenger Transport Authority Ordiance No. 02 of 2009, sentences 30(1), 30(2)(i), (ii), (iii).
Z. A. N
AZEER  AHAMED,
Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and Planning,
Law and  Peace,  Provincial and Divisional Administration,
Rural Development, Tourism and Environment,
Buildings and Constructions, Transport and Rural Industry and Housing
1. I do hereby furnish the Eastern Province Passenger Transport Authority orders instituted as per article No. 2 of
2009 enactments sentences 30, (1), 30, (2), (i), (ii), (iii), And this article is to be named as orders for Preparation
of Time Tables for Passenger Transport and bringing it into effect and Management of Bus Stand. These orders
will be enforced from first December 2015.
2. Preparation of Time Table
2.1 This service will be implemented to a “General Time Table” prepared by the Passenger Transport Authority
constituted considering the request of the bus passengers within Eastern Province with other necessary
requirements. According to this General Time Table a program will be launched and implemented to make
transport service to meet the requirements of the passengers in a specified route or area in turn the whole
day. Through this program the requirements of the passengers of the respective routes and areas has to be
fulfilled satisfactorily and it is expected to curb the harmful competition and perform an efficient service
and implement a General Time Table amongst drivers and the authority endure to provide equitable turns
for drivers.
2.2 The Passenger Transport Authority has the power to amended the General Time Table according the changes
of the passenger requests, timely requirements and administrative facilities, efficient services and for
amalgamation of town services, for the safety of the passengers and a supply more facilities to the public.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.03.2016
2A
2.3 If there are requests for additional bus services out of the General Time Table, and if the respective
service is considered essential for a qualitative and efficient service the Eastern Province Passenger
Transport Authority has the power to grant an special approval for it.
2.4 The Passenger Transport Authority has the power to make arrangements beyond the General Time Table to
provide School Services to transport pupils, Office Transport, and Special Services for Night and Morning
Services with any other names and Postal Services and other Special Transport Services separated from
the General Time Table.
2.5 While preparing the time table, the Passenger Transport Authority is empowered to select the routes,
decide the destination, Name the route numbers, preparing the bus fare of passengers, checking the driving
time and deciding the driving duration period, observation of passengers, deciding the demand of people,
re-planning and amendment of services when and where necessary. The necessary criterions necessary
for such activities will be formed by the Passenger Transport Authority as regulations.
2.6 While implementing new services it is the responsibility of the authority to decide whether is is necessary
to provide a state bus service or a private bus service according to the nature of request and transport
capabilities, The transport suggestions are to be submitted according to assessments of new routes and
information and measures are to be implemented considering the respective suggestions.
2.7 If a Passenger Transport Authority of any other Province, or any other authority that provides license for
transport services of National Transport Commission intends to issue a license to a bus for transport
services such authority has to obtain written permission from the Eastern Province Transprot Authority
for such effect. Such services shall not be a hindrance to the General Time Table and it is the responsibility
of the authority issues license for same and the responsibility of the drivers to ensure that there is no
harmful competency. Action will be initiated to suspend creating harmful competency with prevailing
General Time Tables and services or possibility of creating such situations, or arising conflict with the
prevaling other services or the possibility of arising such conflicts, or causing forceful impact on income
of other running services and permanent or temporary inter Provincial Services.
3. Implementation of Time Tables
3.1 Each and every bus transporting passengers has to process a valid license issued by the authority indicating
the number of the bus stating the number of running turns, time to enter and exit the bus terminal, dates
the time table will be effective with other necessary information. And it is to be produced for inspection
when requested to do so.
3.2 While implementing time tables more attention has to be drawn to the most necessity issue and discuss
with the parties involved in running schedules and implement the time table. If there are controversies
over the time tables such matters has to be bring to the notice of the authority, and it should be revived
after running two weeks and the authority has to implement necessary action to make necessary amendments.
3.3 The license holder has to run the bus according to the time table of the respective bus and should not run
changing the time table without the prior written approval of the authority without a sudden block on the
way or instructions of officers on duty. Services stated in the time table should not be terminated half way
or commenced half way.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.03.2016
3.4 A driver should not refuse or neglect implementing a time table prepared and approved by the authority.
3.5 The main function of the point controllers and the time keepers are to administer whether all the running
turns are maintained according to the respective days of the time table in each and every route. If the
appointed buses are not arrived on any grounds the reduced running turns are  to be functioned with
standby buses or with other buses possessing a valid license. If the buses scheduled are not present for the
respective duties for over 14 days at a stretch it has to be brought to the notice of the top management of
the authority.
3.6 The authority issues instructions relating to running turns of the approved Time Table regarding to rules
and regulations from time to time regarding to maintenance of running turns as approved by the General
Time Table. While making arrangements for minus running turns the authority is responsible to provide
equal turns to the running fleet or to allocate a permanent driver for services continuously.
3.7 In an occasion one party has received less turns than the normal percentage of running turns in a General
Time Table or in on amendment of a time table or at a reasonable request made or in an occasion where a
bus gets less number of turns the authority has the power to give preference to a party that got less number
of turns.
3.8 A bus could be entered into the bus terminal only before 5 or 10 minutes it is scheduled to be entered into
the passenger terminal so that it is possible to get the log sheet or get necessary note and go out of the bus
terminal.
3.9 During the period the bus is parked in the bus stand tickets are to be issued to the passengers and make
them get into the bus and get the log sheet or get necessary note and go out of the bus terminal.
3.10 W hile driving the bus the driver should not purposely slow the bus to make the passengers late on their
journeys or make the others drivers loose there income in their turns, and the drivers should not drive the
buses fast and  risk the safety of the passengers.
3.11 The authority is empowered to allocate buses for school services, special festivals and or in occasions of
gathering of mass.
3.12 When forwarding new buses to the bus terminal it is necessary to obtain the approval of the authority for
that purpose, and the bus is to be in the necessary conformity. The buses are to be commencing on duty
and get off on duty at the same terminal, and it is to be treated as a place where passengers get into and get
down from buses and also a place where they change their destinations, and it is a center where numerous
journeys are managed and diverted. Accordingly the contractions are to be erected to assist on administration
of bus services, providing necessary facilities for passengers, concentrating on the basic attention on
providing necessary facilities for parking buses and employs. External buildings which might hinder the
basic necessities of the bus terminal or which might make unnecessary problems for the management of
the administration is not permitted.
3.13 It is an offence to obstruct or hinder the operation of these rules and regulations and legal action will be
taken on such issues.
3.14 The list of the Bus Terminals administered by the Eastern Province Passenger's Authority is appearing in
Schedule herewith.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.03.2016
4A
 SCHEDULE  I
1. Ampara District  :
1.1 Ampara Main Bus Terminal
1.2 Kalmunai Bus Terminal
1.3 Akkaraipattu Bus Terminal
1.4 Tirukkovil Bus Terminal
1.5 Potuwil Bus Terminal
1.6 Panama Bus Terminal
1.7 Mahaoya Bus Terminal
1.8 Padiyatalawa Bus Terminal
1.9 Dehiattakandiya Bus Terminal
2. Batticaloa District  :
2.1 Batticaloa Main Bus Terminal
2.2 Kokaddicholi Bus Terminal
2.3 Kaluwawikudi Bus Terminal
2.4 Ariyampathi Bus Terminal
2.5 Kachchikudi Bus Terminal
2.6 Chenkaladdi Bus Terminal
2.7 Pillumalai Bus Terminal
2.8 Valachchena Bus Terminal
3. Trincomalee District  :
3.1 Trincomalee Main Bus Terminal
3.2 Muttur Bus Terminal
3.3 Kinniya Bus Terminal
3.4 Kanthale Bus Terminal
3.5 Pulmudai Bus Terminal
3.6 Padavi Sri Pura Bus Terminal
04-431
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.