

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2008
1029
1029
wxl 1"564 _ 2008 wf.daia;= 22 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008'08'22
No. 1,564 – FRIDAY , AUGUST 22, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... —
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1031
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication . All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due  regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29th August, 2008, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 15th July, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2008
1030
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2008
1031
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  AGRICULTURAL  DEVELOPMENT  AND
AGRARIAN  SERVICES  DEPARTMENT  OF  EXPORT
AGRICULTURE
COMPETITIVE Examination for Recruitment of the Posts of
Extension Officer and Research Assistant of Class II “B” of the Sri
Lanka Technological Service in the Department of Export Agriculture.
The notification published in the Government Gazette  on
25.07.2008 for the purpose of calling applications for the above
posts in hereby amended as follows by substituting the G . C. E.
(A/L) qualification given below for the G . C. E. (A/L) qualifications
stipulated under Educational Qaulification of Para : 5 of the said
notification.
G. C. E. (A/L)
Pass in G . C. E. (A/L) Examination (old syllabus) in 03 (three)
science subjects including 02 (two) subjects out of Zoology, Botany,
Agriculture, Chemistry, Physics at one sitting.
or
Pass in G . C. E. (A/L) examination (New Syllabus) in 03 (three)
science subjects including 02 (two) subjects out of Biology,
Agriculture, Chemistry, Physics at one sitting.
Accordingly, the date of closing application for the above posts
is postponed until 15.09.2008.
W. D. L. Gunaratne,
Director (Act.),
Dept. of Export Agriculure.
08-596
DEPARTMENTAL   EXAMINATION   FOR
PRELIMINARY   GRADE
MEDICAL   OFFICERS   &   DENTAL   SURGEONS
SEPTEMBER  -  2008
IT is hereby notified that the Departmental Examination for
Preliminary Grade Medical Officers & Dental Surgeons which
should be passed by Preliminary Grade Medical Officers before
promotion to grade II and which should be passed by Dental
Surgeons before confirmation in the service in terms of Section 07
of the Minute of Medical Officers in the Health Services, published
in the Gazette (Extra Ordinary)  No. 662/11 of 17.05.1991 of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, will be held on
28.09.2008 in Sinhala, Tamil & English media. The venue and the
time of the examination will be notified along with the Admission
Card.
02. Qualifications.– Preliminary Grade Medical Officers & Dental
Surgeons who have not completed the relevant examination can
apply for this examination.
03. Applications.– Applications prepared by the candidates as
per specimen appended to this letter should be sent under Registered
cover to reach the Director (Examinations) “Suwasiripaya”, No.
385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10,
on or before 31.08.2008 through their Heads of Institutions. The
Head of Division should certify the accuracy of contents in each
application. A self addressed envelope in the size of 9"x4" inches,
affixed with stamps to the value of Rs. 30.00 should be sent along
with the application. (Candidates can write their official or private
address) Applications which are received late, incomplete or
inaccurate will be rejected.
04. Examination fees :
(i) Candidates who sit the examination for the first time need
not pay examination fees. However in every subsequent
sitting they should affix stamps to the value of Rs. 25 per
subject in the stamps cage provided for in the application
and cancel same by placing their signature and the date.
(ii) The fees once paid will not be allowed to transfer for any
other Examination or refunded under any circumstances.
(iii) If you did not receive your admission card due to any
unavoidable reason you can trace your examination centre
and the index number through the web site ; If you were
able to trace your examination centre and the index number
as mentioned above you are permitted to be presented at
the examination centre in the web site together with a
letter attesting your signature by your immediate superior
officer and site the examination by reestablishment of your
identity.
(Web site : WWW.health.gov.lk)
05. Admission to the Examination :
(i) Candidates whose applications have been accepted will
be issued with Admission Cards. They should duly
complete and submit same to the Supervisor at the
Examination Centre. Otherwise they will not be allowed
to sit the examination.
(ii) Candidates should prove their identity to the Supervisor
at the examination hall. For this purpose one of the
following documents will be accepted :
(a) National Identity Card ;
(b) Departmental Identity Card ;
(c) Driving License ;
(d) Passport.
06. Scheme of the Examination.– The examination will consist of
three written question papers & a Sinhala/Tamil Viva Voce test.
Each part will receive 100 Marks. Candidates should score a
minimum of 50 marks for a pass in each part. The Examination can
be completed at one sitting or at several sittings.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2008
1032
07. Syllabus of the Examination :
7.1 Written Examination :
7.1.1 Establishments Code :
Duration 02 hours. Should answer five (05) out
of eight (08) questions. Total marks 100.
Syllabus :
(i) Establishments Code :
(a) Part I - Chapters II, III, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX,
XI, XII, XIII, XV , XXIV , XXV , XXVII,
XXVIII, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII
(b) Part II - Chapters XLVII & XL VIII
(ii) General Regulations of the Department of Health
Services
(iii) Orders of the Public Service Commission
7.1.2 Administration of Hospitals & Dispensaries :
Duration 1 1/2 hours. Total marks 100. Should
answers four (04) questions out of seven (07)
questions.
Syllabus :
Health Mannual :
Part I - Medical Services
Part II - Laboratory Services
7.1.3 Accounts :
Duration 02 hours. Should answers 04 questions
out of 7 questions. Total Marks 100.
Syllabus :
(i) Financial Regulations - Part i
Chapter I - All Sections
II - All Sections
III - All Sections
IV  - All Sections
V - Sections 1, 2, 3 4 and 6
VI - All Sections
VII - Sections 1, 2, 3, 4 & 6
(ii) Regulations of Stores Accounts of the
Department of Health Services
(iii) Sections of Finance in the manual of the
Department of Health Services
(iv) Financial Regulations relating to the daily
routine duties of a Medical Officer of Health.
7.2 Viva Voce - Sinhala/Tamil.– The Staff Officers in the
Department of Health Services will conduct this
Examination in Colombo to examine the proficiency in
Sinhala/Tamil Language. Total Marks 100. Skills of
Officers to discuss on matters pertaining to their daily
routine duties will be examined.
8. Please bring the contents of this circular to the notice of all
relevant officers in your Division/Specialized Campaign/Institution.
The Information is also available in the Web Site : www.helth.gov.lk.
Dr. U. A
JITH MENDIS,
Director General of Health Services
for Secretary of Health Services.
Ministry of Health Care and Nutrition,
“Suwasiripaya”,
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mw.,
Colombo 10,
23rd July, 2008.
Specimen Form of Application
For Office Use Only                
DEPARTMENTAL    EXAMINATION   FOR   PRELIMINARY
GRADE   MEDICAL   OFFICERS   &  DENTAL
SURGEONS  -  SEPTEMBER  2008
01. (a) (i) Name of the Applicant (In Sinhala or Tamil with initials
at the end) :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Name of the Applicant (In English Capitals with initials
at the end) :
(iii) Names denoted by initials (In English Capitals) :
  (b) (i)  Designation (Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon) :–––––––
––––––.
(ii) Date of Internship appointment :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Date of appointment to the preliminary Grade :–––––––
––––––.
02. Subjects offered (Mark ‘ 3’ within the cages against the
subjects you offer in this Examination. Mark “X” against the
subjects not offered) :
Administration of Accounts
Hospitals & Dispensaries
Establishments Code Sinhala Viva V oce
Tamil Viva V oce
03. ( a) Present Station :–––––––––––.
(b) District of the Present Station :–––––––––––.
(c) The nearest Nursing Training School for you to site for the
examination :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2008
1033
(d) Please mark “3” in the relevant cage of examination center
you prefer out of the following centres. (If any or several
examination centres, out of those given below, would be
cancelled due to a departmental requirement or due to
absence of a sufficient number of candidates. In such an
instance, the candidates already attached to such centers
would be re-attached to a closest examination centre or to
another center as decided by the Director General of Health
Services).
Colombo Kandana Hambantota
Kaluthara Galle Badulla
Kurunegala Anuradhapura Rathnapura
Kandy Batticaloa Jaffna
(e) Whether a self-addressed envelop in the size of 9”x4” inches
with stamps affixed to the value of Rs. 30.00 has been
attached to the application to post the Admission Card? :
(f) (i) Postal Address to post the Admission Card (in Sinhala/
Tamil) :––––––––––––.
(ii) Postal Address to post the Admission Card (in English
Capitals) :––––––––––––.
04. Medium you sit for the examination (Sinhala/English/
Tamil) :––––––––––––.
05.  ( a) Whether you sit for the examination for the first
time :––––––––––––.
(b) If not so, have you affixed stamps to the
application? :––––––––––––.
Stamp Cage
06. Certificate of the candidate :
(i) I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by
me in this application are true and accurate to my
knowledge and I need not affix stamps since I sit the
Examination for the first time/have affixed stamps to
the value of Rs. ………… since I repeat the
Examination* and the stamps affixed by me to the
application are genuine and not used.
(ii) I agree to abide by the rules and regulations stipulated
by the Department of Health for the conduct of this
Examination and if I was found ineligible in accordance
with the scheme of the Examination I agree with
whatever decision taken for the cancellation of my
candidature.
Date :–––––––––––. –––––––––––––––,
Signature of the candidate.
07. Certification of Head of Institution :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss …………………………………………is well
known to me and he/she* sits the Examination for the first time/
repeats the Examination* he/she* need not affix stamps/has affixed
stamps to the value of Rs.……… to the Application and he/she*
placed his/her* signature in my presence.
Date :–––––––––––. –––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Institution/
Frank/Rubber Stamp.
08. Certificate of the Head of Decentralized Unit/specialized
Campaign :
*Mr/Mrs/Miss ……………………………………………
serves as a Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon* in my Division/
Campaign* and the particulars furnished by him/her* in the
Application are correct in accordance with the particulars available
in his/her* personal file and he/she* is eligible to sit for the
Examination.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Decentralized Unit/
Specialized Campaign
(Frank/Rubber Stamp).
Date :––––––––––––.
08-602
TELECOMMUNICATIONS  REGULATORY
COMMISSION  OF  SRI  LANKA  (TRCSL)
Examination for the Issue of Amateur Radio Operator’s
License by the Telecommunications Regulatory
Commission of Sri Lanka
CATEGORIES of Amateur Radio Operator’ s Licenses :
(a) Amateur Radio Operator’s Advance Class License ;
(b) Amateur Radio Operator’s General Class License ;
(c) Amateur Radio Operator’s Novice Class “A” License ;
(d) Amateur Radio Operator’s Novice Class “B” License ;
2. Minimum Entry Requirements.- Every candidate entering for the
examination must be fourteen (14) years of age or over on the
closing date of applications.
3. Scheme of Examination :
(a) Advance Class.-  The examination consists  of 2 parts :-
Part 1.- Two (2) compulsory written papers to be undertaken at
one sitting :
Paper I.-  Advanced Electrical Technology and Radio
Communications (3 hours) ;

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2008
1034
Paper II.-  Licensing conditions, operating practices and
procedure (2 hours) ;
Part 2.- Practical Morse Code Test (20 words per minute).
(b) General Class .- The Examination consists of 2 parts :-
Part 1.- Two (2) compulsory written papers to be undertaken at
one sitting :
Paper I.-  Fundamentals of Electricity and Radio
Communications (2 hours) ;
Paper II.-  Licensing conditions, operating practices and
procedure (1 hours) ;
Part 2.- Practical Morse Code Test (12 words per minute).
(c) Novice Class .- “A”.- The Examination consists of 2
parts :-
Part 1.- Two (2) compulsory written papers to be undertaken at
one sitting :
Paper I.- Basic Electricity, Radio and Electronic theory (2
hours) ;
Paper II.-  Licensing conditions, operating practices and
procedure (1 hours) ;
Part 2.- Practical Morse Code Test (5 words per minute).
(d) Novice Class .- “B”.- The Examination consists of two (2)
compulsory written papers to be undertaken at one
sitting :-
Part 1.- Basic electricity, Radio and electronic Theory (2 hours) :
Paper II.-  Licensing conditions, operating practices and
procedure (1 hours) ;
Morse Code Test is not required for a Novice Class “B”
License.
4. Conditions of Examination.- The following conditions shall apply
to all categories of Amateur Radio License Examination :-
(i) To pass the Examination, the candidates should pass all
parts of the examination ;
(ii) Candidates must pass the Part I of the Examination (2
written papers) at the same sitting ;
(iii) Only those candidates who pass Part I of the Examination
will be allowed to appear for Part II (Morse Test) ;
(iv) Candidates who obtain a pass in Part I, may apply only for
Part II (Morse Test) at any successive examination.
5. Medium of Examination.- The examination will be conducted in
English Medium only.
6. Examination Fees.- Applicants who conform to the requirements
of the examination are required to remit the Examination Fees
mentioned in this notification to the “Telecommunications
Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka”. If further information in
this regard is required, the applicants are requested to write to the
Telecommunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka.
The Examination fee is payable either by a Money Order or a
Pay Order/Draft from any Bank drawn in the name of the
“Telecommunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka”. The
entry form muse be sent by recorded delivery on registered post or
delivered by hand. Official receipts must be retained as the
Telecommunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka will not
consider any claim that a form has been overlooked or lost unless
proof of posting of delivery is produced.
Fees are not refundable or cannot be transferred from one
examination to another at a later date. Any candidate who withdraws
his application or cannot appear for the examination due to any
reason whatsoever will be required to pay approximate examination
fee for any subsequent entry.
Category of Fee for Fee for
Examination Part I Part II
Rs. Rs.
Advance Class 276 138
General Class 138 138
Novice Class (A) 138 69
Novice Class (B) 138 -
7. Closing Date of Applications .- The examinations will be held
thrice each year in February, June and October. The date of
examination will be informed by the Commissioner of Examinations.
Applications must be made on the appropriate entry form obtained
from the under-mentioned Office, completed and submitted to the
address given below on or before the closing date mentioned.
Director-General of Telecommunications,
No. 276, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Manning Town, Colombo 08.
Catetory of Licence Last date of Entry
Advance Class 19.09.2008
General Class do.
Novice Class (A) do.
Novice Class (B) do.
8. Attestation.- Candidate’s signature must be attested by one of the
following :-

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2008
1035
A Justice of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, an Attorney-at-
Law and Notary Public, Commissioned Officer of the Army, Navy
or Air Force, Gazetted Officer of the Police, a person holding a
permanent post in the State service drawing a consolidated salary
of not less than Rs. 493,920 per annum. All other applications will
be rejected.
9. Identification of Candidates .- A candidate will be required to
prove his/her identity in the examination and for this purpose any
of the following documents will be accepted.
(a) A valid Identity Card issued by the Postmaster-General ;
(b) A Valid Passport ;
(c) An Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons.
All candidates are required to act in conformity with the
Provisions of the Examinations Act No. 25 of 1968.
Any matter which has not been provided for under these Rules
and Regulations will be settled at the discretion of the Director-
General of Telecommunications.
Director-General of Telecommunications.
Telecommunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka,
No. 276, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Manning Town,
Colombo 08,
22nd August, 2008.
08-609
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.