

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 1957$18 - 2016 ud¾;= ui 09 jeks nodod - 2016'03'09
No. 1957/18  -  WEDNESDAY  MARCH  09,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L.D.B. 277/40
THE  ANTIQUITIES  ORDINANCE   (CHAPTER  188)
Order under Section 18
BY virtue of the powers vested in me by Section 18 of the Antiquities Ordinance (Chapter 188), I, Akila Viraj Kariyawasam,
Minister of Education, do by this Order declare the monuments specified in the Schedule to this Order, to be “Protected
Monuments” for the purposes of the aforesaid Ordinance.
The Notice under Section 19 in relation to the monuments specified in the Schedule to this Order was published
in Gazette No. 1919 of 12th June 2015.
A
KILA VIRAJ KARIY AWASAM,
Minister of Education.
Colombo,
16th February 2016.
SCHEDULE
LIST  OF  cONSERVED  MONUMENTS   TO   BE  DE  CLARED
1. The drip ledged cave called Akaragane Devala belonging to Pahala Ogodapola Village situated in Grama Niladhari
Division No. 601, Ogodapola in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Rideegama in Kurunegala District in North
Western Province.
2. Devenagala rock with the complex of archaeological ruins including Chaitya. Preaching hall, rock inscriptions,
hillocks of ruins, walls, ponds, plight of steps, caves, places with pre-historic evidences at the premises of
Devanagala Rajamaha Vihara belonging to Devanagala, Udapamunuwa, Karahampitigoda, Ruwandeniya, and
Katugahawaththa villages situated in Grama Niladhari Division No. 28A, Kekerigoda, No. 33B, Devangala
No. 33A, Attapitiya and No. 33C. Ruwandeniya belonging to Divisional Secretary’s Divisions Mawanelle and
Aranayaka in Kegalle District in Sabaragamuwa province.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'03'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.03.2016
2A
3. Ancient pond, plight of steps, rampart, stone pillars, chisel holing and other archaeological evidences at the land
called Maligathennewaththa belonging to Marukwathtura village situated in Grama Niladhari Division,
Marukwathura in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Rambukkana in Kegalle District of Sabaragamuwa Province.
4. St. Yohan’s Anglicant Church building situated in Grama Niladhari Division No. 1B, Kegalle Town in the Divisional
Secretary’s Division, Kegalle in Kegalle District in Sabaragamuwa Province.
5. Place with the sketches of animals at small rock in the middle of the paddy field in front of   Agrarian Services Center
in Yattogoda village situated in Grama Niladhari Division, Yattogoda in the Divisional Secretary’s Division,
Galigamuwa in Kegalle District in Sabaragamuwa Province.
6. Makandura Mahawalawwa belonging to Makandura village situated in Grama Niladhari Division, Makandura in
the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Godakawela in Rathnapura District in Sabaragamuwa Province.
7. Drip ledged cave complex with cave inscriptions in the area related to Gommottakanda and in the premises of
Nagolla Aranya Senasana, situated in Grama Niladhari Division, Pahala Diggala in the Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Galewela in Matale District in Central Province.
8. Cave temple and foot print stone in the premises of Niyandagala Raja Maha Vihara belonging to Gurulawela
North village situated in Grama Niladhari Division, Gurulawela North in the Divisional Secretary’s Division,
Ukuwela in Matale District in Central Province.
9. Ancient Atuwa (barn) at the premises of Bulathwaththa Walawwa belonging to Udugoda village situated in Grama
Niladhari Division, Udugoda in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Panvila in Kandy District in Central Province.
10. Arama complex where archaeological evidence including places with ruins of buildings, hillocks of Chaityas, rock
inscriptions, drip ledged caves, plight of steps, and stone basin for waching feet are scattered in the premises of
Weheragala Raja Maha Vihara belonging to Aliwanguwa village situated in Grama Niladhari Division. Aliwanguwa
in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Wilgamuwa in the Matale District in Central Province.
11. Monarawila Keepetipola Hulangamuwa Maha Walawwa in Hulangamuwa village situated in Grama Niladhari
Divsion No. 353/B, Hulangamuwa North in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Matale in Matale district in
Central Province.
12. Ancient Shrine and Chaitya at the premises of Ancient Vihara, Wattararhenne, Padiyapelella belonging to Ampitigoda
village situated in Grama Niladhari Division Ampitigoda in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Hanguranketha in
Nuwaraeliya district in Central Province.
13. Cave complex with drip ledges and stone inscriptions and other archaeological evidences at the premises of
Wewalawewa Gallen Aranya Senasana belonging to Wewalawewa village situated in Grama Niladhari Division
Wewalawewa in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Dambulla in  Matale District in Central Province.
14. Drip ledged cave in the land called  Rathnehegedara Hitinawaththa, Ketala, Weliwita Pahalagama, Hatharaliyadda
belonging to Weliwita Pahalagama village situated in Grama Niladhari Division Eramuduliyadda in the Divisional
Secretary’s Division, Thumpane in Kandy District in Central Province.
15. Cave temple with ancient wall paintings at the premises of Embilla Raja Maha Vihara, Hulangamuwa situated in
Grama Niladhari Division Hulangamuwa in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Matale in Matale district in Central
Province.
16. Rock plane with marks of drains and symbols in the area  called Viharamulla Galketiya (Suddigewaththa) situated
in Grama Niladhari Division Waththegama in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Siyambalanduwa in Monaragala
District in Uva Province.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'03'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.03.2016
3A
17. Places with ancinet Chaitya and ruins of buildings at the premises of Weligamawehera Ancient Vihara in Weliara
village situated in Grama Niladhari Division Kotikambokka in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Wellawaya
in Monaragala District in Uva Province.
18. Anicent Dagoba, places with ruins of buildings and ancient wall at the premises of Unawatuna Raja Maha Vihara
belonging to Unawatuna village in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Buttala in Monaragala District in Uva
Province.
19. Drip ledged cave and two natural caves at the premises of Purana Gallen Vihara belonging to Kandasurindugama
village situated in Grama Niladhari Division Katharagama in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Katharagama
in  Monaragala district in Uva Province.
20. Place with the ruins of Buddhist Arama including ruins of buildings, parts of wall and ponds in the area called
Waththegama Miyangodapitiya situated in Grama Niladhari Division Waththegama Viharamulla in the Divisional
Secretary’s Division, Siyambalanduwa in Monaragala District in Uva Province.
21. Stupa and the place of ruins of buildings at the premises of Gonaganara Walagamba Purana Vihara situated in
Grama Niladhari Division Gonaganara in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Buttala in Monaragala District in
Uva Province.
22. Drip ledged cave at the place of called Pansalwaththa-Usgala situated in Grama Niladhari Division Dambeyaya
in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Buttala in Monaragala District in Uva Province.
23. Hillocks of ruins, ponds and places with chisel holing on the rock at the premises of Thunkemgala Raja Maha
Vihara situated in Thunkemgala village in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Sevanagala in Monaragala District
of Uva Province.
24. Namaluwa archaeological site with all caves with drip ledges and inscriptions, rock inscriptions, ancient stupa and
ruins of buildings in Namaluwa village situated in Grama Niladhari Division Mahakalugolla in the Divisional
Secretary’s Division, Siyambalanduwa in Monaragala District in Uva Province.
25. Drip ledged cave and other archaeological evidence belonging to Dankumbura Raja Maha Vihara in Dankumbura
village situated in Grama Niladhari Division Aralupitiya in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Ridimaliyadda
in Badulla district in Uva Province.
26. Cave temple with rock art, drip ledges at the premises of Kanugolla Shailabimbarama Vihara belonging to Kanugolla
village situated in Grama Niladhari Division Ridimaliyadda South in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Ridimaliyadda
in Badulla District in Uva Province.
27. Hillock of runied Chaitya, belonging to Hebarawa village situated in Grama Niladhari Division Hebarawa in the
Divisional Secretary’s Division, Mahiyangana in Badulla district in Uva Province.
28. Kalikkad site of the ruins of buildings with ancient stone pillars belonging to Kalikkadu village situated in Grama
Niladhari Division No. 106, Mulliyawela Central in the Divisional Secrtary’s Division, Muhudubadapaththu in
Mullaitivu District in Northern Province.
29. Place with the evidences of Peraru ancient settlement beloging to Peraru village situated in Grama Niladhari
Division No. 57, Peraru in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Oddusuddan in Mullaitivu district in Northern
Province.
30. Place with the ruins of buildings with stone pillars belonging to Peraru village situated in Grama Niladhari
Division, Peraru in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Oddusuddan in Mullaitivu district in Northern Province.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'03'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.03.2016
4A
31. Pandarawanniyar site of ruins at Kachchilamadu village situated in Grama Niladhari Division, Kachchilamadu in
the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Oddusuddan in Mullaitivu District in Northern Province.
32. Sinnakulam site of ruins of buildings in Sinnakulam village situated in Grama Niladhari Division, Iraneyilluppakulam
in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Madu in Mannar District in Northern Province.
33. Ruins of Maninthale Shivakovil belonging to Maninthale village situated in Grama Niladhari Division No. KN
68, Gautharamunei in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Punarin in Kilinochchi District in Northern Province.
34. Site of the ruins of Gautharmunei Shivakovil situated in Grama Niladhari Division Gautharamunei in the Divisional
Secretary’s Division, Punarin in Kilinochchi district in Northern Province.
35. Kulamottei site of ruins with stone wall and hillock of ruins in Ambakamam Kulamottei village situated in Grana
Niladhari Division No. 72, Ambakaman in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Oddusuddan in Mullaitivue district
of Northern Province.
36. Walanakare site of ruins with Dagobas  and ruins of buildings belonging to Walandakare village situated in Grama
Niladhari Division No. 34, Ayyankulam in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Thunukkai in Mullaitivu district in
Northern Province.
37. St. Anne’s Catholic Church building in Polkotuwa village situated in Grama Niladhari Division, Polkotuwa in
the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Beruwala in Kalutara District in Western Province.
38. Kechchimalei Mosque building belonging to Paranakade village situated in Grama Niladhari Division No. 753,
Paranakade in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Beruwala, in Kalutara district in Western Province.
39. St. Sebastian Church building belonging to Diyalagoda village situated in Grama Niladhari Division No. 741,
Diyalagoda in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Beruwala in Kalutara district in Western Province.
40. St. Francis Church building belonging to Maggona village situated in Grama Niladhari Division, Diyalagoda in
the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Beruwala in Kalutara district in Western Province.
41. St. Mary’s Church building belonging to Aluthgama Village situated in Grama Niladhari Division Aluthgama
East in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Beruwala in Kalutara District in Western Province.
42. Shrine with ancient paintings at the premises of Mahagammedda Sri Dharmaguptha Perivena situated in Grama
Niladhari Division Mahagammedda in the Divisional Secretary’s Division Beruwala in Kalutara District in Western
Province.
43. St. Francis Xaviour Church, Payagala situated in Grama Niladhari Division, Mahapayagala in the Divisional
Secretary’s Division, Beruwala in Kalutara district in Western  Province.
44. St. Vicenthi Home, Kapugoda (Susinodaya building) belonging to Kapugoda village situated in Grama Niladhari
Divison, Kapugoda in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Beruwala in Kalutara District in Western Province.
45. Octagon shape building with ancient paintings at the premises of Kande Vihara belonging to Kaluwamodara
village situated in Grama Niladhari Division, Kaluwamodaya in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Beruwala in
Kalutara district in Western Province.
46. Shrine with ancient paintings at the premises of Dhammikarama Purana Vihara situated in Grama Niladhari
Division, Moragalla in the Divisional Secretary’s Division Beruwala in Kalutara District in Western Province.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'03'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.03.2016
5A
47. St. Mary’s Church building belonging to Maggona village situated in Grama Niladhari Division No. 742, Maggona
in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Beruwaal in Kalutara District in Western Province.
48. Bendiyamulla Tombstone adjoins Miriswaththa- Gampaha Highway belonging to Bendiyamulla village situated in
Grama Niladhari Division, Bendiyamulla in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Gampaha in Gampaha District in
Western Province.
49. Drip ledged cave situated in the land adjoins Warakagoda Gallena Purana Rajamaha Vihara belonging to
Warakagoda situated in Grama Niladhari Division, No. 816B, Warakagoda North in the Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Madurawala in Kalutara District in Western Province.
50. Ancient Shrine and other archaeological remains at the premises of Ganegodella Purana Rajamaha Vihara
belonging to Kithulgoda village situated in Grama Niladhari Division, No. 833A, Kithulgoda North in the
Divisional Secretary’s Division, Agalawaththa in Kalutara District in Western Province.
51. Place with ruins of buildings, place with the evidences of a settlement of pre histroic era and the plight of steps
carved on natural rock at Kalalpitiya Dhathukanda Sri Jinendarama Purana Rajamaha Vihara situated in Grama
Niladhari Division  No. 343, Kalalpitiya in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Aththanagalla in Gampaha District in
Western Province.
52. Tempita Shrine and Pohoya Seemawa at the premises of Kshestrarama Purana Vihara in Hapuwana village situated
in the Grama Niladhari Division No. 87, Hapuwalana in Divisional Secretary’s Division, Divulapitiya in Gampaha
District in Western Province.
53. Drip ledged cave temple with paintings and sculptures of Kandy period and two drip ledged caves, hillock of
ancient Chaitya, stone wall, plight of steps, found nearby, and other archaeologocial remains scattered in premises
of vihara at Gonagiri Rajamaha Vihara belonging to Puhudivula village situated in Grama Niladhari Divsion No.
230, Mahamessalewa in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kahatagadigiliya in Anuradhapura district in North
Western Province.
54. Ancient Chaitya and Shirne at the premises of Hikgoda Sri Sudharmarama Vihara situated in Grama Niladhari
Division, Hikgoda in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Akuress in Matara District in Southern Province.
55. Two ancient Shrines, Chaitya, Chapter house, ancient monk residences, preaching hall, retaining wall around Bo
Tree, ancient devela buildings, place of ruins with ancient stone pillars, place for ruins with stone pillars by west
at the premises of vihara and premises of vihara where other archaeological evidence are scattered at Thelwaththa
Rathpath Rajamaha Vihara belonging to Grama Niladhari Division No. 67, Thelwaththa in the Divisional
Secretary’s Division, Hikkaduwa in Galle District in Southern Province.
56. The area belonging to Ganegodella Rajamaha Vihara, where archaeological remains including ancient shrine,
Chaitya, footprint of Buddha, moonstone statue of Buddha and ancient tombstone are scatterd, situated in Grama
Niladhari Division No. 17, Nape in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Balapitiya in Galle District in Southern
Province.
03-615
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.