

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 642
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 638
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"063 – 2018 ud¾;= ui 16 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'03'16
No. 2,063  –  fRiday ,  MaRch  16, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 06th april, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 23rd March, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting).
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
635-B 81262- 5,403 (03/2018)
Note.–   (i) Penal code (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of March 09, 2018.
 (ii) code of criminal Procedure (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 09, 2018.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
636
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
637
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
638
Posts – vacant
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
ministry of home Affairs
REcRuitMENt oN oPEN BaSiS foR thE PoSt 
of LEGaL officER of GRadE iii of ExEcutiVE 
SERVicE catEGoRy
aPPLicatioNS are hereby invited from the Sri Lankan 
Citizens who have fulfilled following qualifications for 
the post of Legal Officer - Grade III of Executive Service 
category of the Ministry of home affairs.
01. Method of Recruitments.– Based on the results of the 
structured inverview conducted by the board of interview 
appointed by the Public Service commission, the candidate 
who secures the highest marks will be recruited to the 
existing vacancy. the structured interview will be held 
in accordance with the marking scheme (specified under            
No. 06) approved by the Public Service commission.
02.  Required Qualifications :
 (i) Educational/professional qualifications :
  a  degree in Law from a university recognized 
by the university Grants commission or should 
have taken oaths as an attorney-at-Law of 
Supereme court.
 (ii) experience :
  active professional experience of not less than 
three(03) years as an attorney at Law after taking 
oaths as an attorney-at-Law of the Supreme 
court.
 (iii) Physical Fitness :
  Every candidate should be mentally and 
physically fit to serve in any part of the island 
and discharge the duties of the post.
 (iv) Other :
 *  Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
 *  Should be a excellent moral character,
 *  Should have obtained at least a credit pass for 
English Language at the G. c. E. (o/Level) or 
G. c. E. (a/Level),
 *  Required  qaulifications for rercuitment should 
have been completed in every respect as at 
the date specified in the notification calling 
for application/ Gazette Notification as the 
date on which the required qualifications for 
recruitment to the post should be completed.
03. General Terms and Conditions of employment :
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable. you 
shall be liable to policy decision to be taken 
in future by the government in respect of 
your pension entitlement. further, you shall 
make contributions to Widow/Widowers and 
orphans' Pensions Scheme. you shall pay your 
subscriptions in the manner decided by the 
government from time to time.
 (ii) the appoinment is subject to a probation period 
of 03 years. Candidates should pass the first 
efficiency bar examination within 03 years of 
the appointment to Legal Officer, Grade III, as 
specified in the recruitment procedure.
 (iii) in terms of the Public administration circular 
No.: 01/2014 the relevant level of proficiency in 
official language should be obtained within five 
(05) years of the appointment to the post.
 (iv) this appoinment is subject to Procedural 
Rules of the Public Service commission, the 
Establishment code of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka, financial Regulations of 
the government and other departmental orders.
04. Age Limit.– candidates shall be not less than 21 
years and not more than 45 years as at the closing date of 
applications.
05. Salary Scale.– the monthly salary related to this 
post as per Schedule i of Public administration circular 
No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 is Rs. 47,615/ 10 x 1,335 - 8 
x 1,630 - 17 x 2,170 - Rs. 110,895 (SL-1-2016). you shall 
be paid salaries in accordance with the provisions available 
under the said circular and as specified in Schedule II therein.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
639
06. the following making scheme shall be the basis for the structured interview :
Serial 
No.
Subject Marks Maximum 
Marks
01 Additional Educational Qualifications :  
degree in Law from a university recognized by the university Grants commission  
 * first class pass  
 * Second class uppper division pass  
 * Second class lower division pass  
 For first class pass in the final year of Law College  
 For a second class pass in the final year of Law College  
Note : Ten (10) marks should only be awarded if the final examination has been completed 
with honours 
(Marks will be awarded only for the highest qaulification - Either for the degree or 
qualifications from Law College)
20
15
10
15
10
20
02 Additional Professional qualifications :
For a post graduate diploma or a post Law diploma in the relevant field of a duration of 
not less than one year awarded by an institute recognized by the university Grants 
commission  
(05 marks for each diploma)
For a diploma of not less than 06 months duration in the relevant field awarded by an 
institute recognized by the Government (03 marks for each diploma)
For a certified course of not less than 03 months duration in the relevant field conducted 
by an institute recognized by the government (02 marks for each course)
15
03 Additional Experience
Experience as an attorney at law in the public service or in the private sector-
More than 06 months and less than a year - 02 marks
Maximum marks of 30 with 05 marks per year
(Expect for the 03 year period of service as an attorney at Law required for obtaining 
basic qualifications)
(Additional experience should be corroborated through a certificate obtained from an 
attorney-at-law with a period of service of not less than 20 years or a President's 
counsel or a judge. Where marks shall be awarded only if the service period is clearly  
mentioned)
30
04 English Language Proficiency  
Post graduate degree/degree/post graduate degree in law/degree in Low completed in 
English Medium 
(all relevant question papers should have been answered in English Language medium) 
for a diploma in English Language conducted by a university recognized by the university 
Grants commission or the government or an institute recognized by the government  
(01 year or 1500 hours)
15
10
15

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
640
Serial 
No.
Subject Marks Maximum 
Marks
For a Certificate course in English conducted by a university recognized by the University 
Grants commission or a university recognized by the government or a government 
accredited institute 
 * 06 months/720 hours  
 * 03 months/360 hours  
07
05
05 knowledge on information Technology  
for studying information technology as major subject for a degree of a university 
recognized by the university Grants commission.
for a diploma course in information technology of 1500 hours/of not less than 01 year in 
an institute recognized by the Government  
A certificate course on information Technology in an institute recognized by the 
government 
 * 06 months/720 hours  
 * 03 months/360 hours  
15
10
07
05
15
06 Performance at the interview 05
Total 100
07. Identity of the Candidates.– the candidates who have perfected the application in every respect shall only be 
called for the structured interview.
Originals of all the certificates and duly certified copies shall be submitted at the interview Candidates shall produce 
one of the following identification documents at the intereview to prove their identity :
(1) National identity card issued by the commissioner General of Registration of Persons 
(2) Valid passport
08. Mode of application :-
 (a) applications shall be forwarded under registered cover to reach the following address on or before 
16.03.2018 applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
  Secretary,
  Ministry of home affairs,
  independence Square,
  colombo 07.
 (b) t op left - hand corner of the envelope containing the application should be marked "Recruitment to the post 
of Legal Officer - Grade III of Executive Service Category of the Ministry of Home Affairs- 2017"
 (c) the signature of the applicant should be attested by Principal of a Government School/Justice of the 
Peace/Commissioner of Oaths/Attorney at Law/Notary Public/a Commissioned officer of the three armed 
forces or an officer holding a permanent government position drawing a monthly consolidated salary of                                 
Rs. 47,615.
 (d) applicants who are already in the Public Service should forward their applications through the head of the 
department they are currently attached to.
 (e) Applications that are not in conformity with the specimen application given in this notification shall be 
rejected. No any complaint with respect to loss or delay of the applications will be accepted. the name of 
the examination in the heading shall be mentioned in English Language as well in applications prepared in 
both Sinhala and tamil Mediums. the candidates thall prepare their application using a4 size (22-29cm) 
papers using both sides of the papers with No. (1) to (5) (ii) in the first page and the remaining in next pages 
respectively. the relevant details should be completed by the applicant's own handwriting.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
641
 (f)  the letter calling for the interview shall be sent 
by registered post to the address given in the 
application in the name of the applicant.
09. Submission of false information.– if any information 
mentioned by the candidate in the application is found to 
be false or incorrect before recruitment, his/her candidature 
will be cancelled. if any such false or incorrect information 
is found after the recruitment, action will be taken to 
dismiss him/her from public service subject to relevant legal 
procedure.
10. the Public Service commission shall have the right 
to fill or not to fill the vacancies.
By the order of the Public Service commission.
Secretary,
Ministry of home affairs,
independence Square,
colombo 07.
Specimen application
Structured interview for recruitment to the poSt of 
legal officer of the miniStry of home affairS - 2017
For office use only
Language medium for the interview
(indicate the relevant number within the cage : Sinhala 2/
tamil -3)
 (1)  (i) Name with initails with initails at the end :––––––.
   (in English block letters)
  (ii) Names denoted by initails :––––––––––.
   (in English block letters)
  (iii) Name with initails :––––––––––.
   (in Sinhala/tamil)
  (iv) Names denoted by initals :––––––––––.
   (in Sinhala/tamil)
 (2)  complete address :
  (i) Permanent address :––––––––––.
   (in English block letters)
  (ii) Permanent address :––––––––––.
   (in Sinhala/tamil)
  (iii) address to which the interview calling letter to be 
sent :––––––––––.
   (in English block letters)
  (iv) t elephone No. :––––––––––.
(3)   Gender : (indicate within the relevant cage)
    female  - 1 
    Male  - 0
(4)  civil status :-  (indicate within the relevant cage)
    Married  - 1   
 unmarried  - 2
(5)  (i) date of birth : 
   y ear :  Month :  date
  (ii) age as at 16.04.2018 :
   y ear :  Month :  date :
(6)  National identity card Number :
 `
(7) according to the notification for calling applications, 
the educational qualifications achieved to apply for the 
interview :
 Qualification Institution Date received
  ........................... ........................ .......................
  ........................... ........................ .......................
(8) Grade obtained for English language  at G. c. E. (o/L) 
or G. c. E. (a/L) Examination :––––––––––.
 
(9) date of taking oaths as an  attorney at Law of Supreme 
court :––––––––––.
 
(10) Details with regard to obtaining each qualification under 
No. 06 of the notification for calling applications :
   Qualification Institution Date received/ 
    duration
1.  Additional educational qualifications :
 (i)  .................. ..................... .....................
 (ii)  .................. ..................... .....................
 (iii)  .................. ..................... .....................

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
642
   Qualification Institution Date received/ 
    duration
2.  Additional professional qualifications :
 i.  .................. ..................... .....................
 ii.  ..................  
 iii.  ..................  
3. additional experience :
 i.  ....................................  
 ii. ....................................    
 iii. ....................................  
4. English Language proficiency
 i.  ....................................  
 ii. ....................................    
 iii. ....................................  
5. Knowledge on information technology :
 i.  ....................................  
 ii. ....................................    
 iii. ....................................    
(11) Declaration/Certification of the applicant :
i hereby certify that the information furnished by me in 
this application is ture and correct and i agree to be bound 
by the orders/regulations stipulated by the Public Service 
commission with respect to holing the interview and issuing 
results.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
(12) attesting the signature of the applicant :
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................... who is 
submitting this application is known to me and he/she 
placed his/her signature in my presence
  ––––––––––––,
  Official stamp of the attesting person.
Name  :–––––––––––.
designation  :–––––––––––.
date  :–––––––––––.
(13) Recommendation of the head of the department :
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss.............. is serving 
in this institution and the information furnish by him./her 
are correct and he/she can be released for his/her present 
position if the officer is selected for this post.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of department/ 
 Establishment.
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
(Place the official stamp)
03-609
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
DEPARTmENTAL   ExAmINATION   fOR   
PRELImINARy   GRADE mEDICAL   OffICERS   
AND   DENTAL   SuRGEONS – mARCh,  2018
it is hereby notified that the departmental Examination 
should be passed by Medical Officers in Preliminary Grade 
before promotion to Grade ii, By dental Surgeons before 
confirmation in the service and by the Medical officers in 
administrative Grade or Specialist Grade who have not 
completed this departmental Examination during a period 
of two years from the date of appointment to such post as per 
Section 08 of the Medical Service Minute of Sri Lanka in the 
health Services published in the Gazette extraordinary of 
the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1883/17 
of 11.10.2014, will be held on 22.04.2018 in Sinhala, 
tamil and English medium. the venue and the time of the 
examination will be notified along with the Admission Card.
02. Qualifications.– Medical Officers in the Preliminary 
Grade who have not completed the relevant examination 
and Dental Surgeons who are not confirmed in the service 
can apply for this examination. Medical officer appointed 
to a post in the administrative Grade or Speicalist Grade 
without having completed this examination also can apply 
for the above Examination.
03. Applications.– applications that should be prepared 
by the candidates as per specimen shown at the end of this 
circular must be handed over to the head of the institute on 
or before 23.03.2018. The applications that are certified as 
all the eligibilities have been fulfilled, should be forwarded 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
643
to the director (Examinations), Ministry of health, Nutrition 
and indigenous Medicine, “Suwasiripaya”, No. 385, Ven. 
Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha, colombo 10, 
on or before 28.03.2018 through their heads of institutions. 
the head of division should certify the accuracy of contents 
in each application. a self addressed envelope in the size of 
9" x 4" inches, affixed with stamps to the value of Rs. 35.00 
should be sent along with the application. (candidates can 
write their official or private address). Applications which 
are received late, incomplete or inaccurate will be rejected.
Note.– the application should be prepared using 
an a4 paper based on the specimen form of the 
application so as to recommended from 01 to 04(e) 
on the first front page and from 04(f) to 09 on the 
second page. applications which do not conform to 
above will be rejected any information. 
04. examination fees :
 (i)  Candidates who sit the examination for the first 
time need not pay examination fees. however, in 
every subsequent sitting they should affix stamps 
to the value of Rs. 25 per subject in the stamps 
cage provided for in the application and cancel 
same by placing their signature and the date.
 (ii)  the fees once paid will not be allowed to transfer 
for any other Examination or refunded under any 
circumstances.
05. Admission to the examination:
 (i)  candidates whose applications have been 
accepted will be issued with admission cards. 
they should duly complete and submit same 
to the Supervisor at the Examination centre. 
otherwise they will not be allowed to sit the 
examination.
 (ii)  candidates should prove their identity to 
the Supervisor at the examination hall. for 
this purpose one of the following documents 
will be accepted :
  (a) National identity card ;
  (b) departmental identity card ;
  (c) Valid driving License ;
  (d) Valid Passport.
 (iii) if you did not receive your admission card 
due to any unavoidable reason you can 
trace your examination centre and the index 
number through the web site ; if you were 
able to trace your examination centre and the 
index number as mentioned above you are 
permitted to be presented at the examination 
centre in the web site together with a letter 
attesting your signature by your immediate 
superior officer and sit the examination 
by establishment of your identity. the 
applicants who have received the admission 
card should certify their signature and 
should be bought. the applicants who have 
obtained the certification on their signature 
will not be entitled to face the examination. 
(Web site : www.health.gov.lk).
06. Scheme of the examination.– the examination will 
consists of four parts that is three written essay type question 
papers and a Sinhala/t amil oral test. Each part carries 100 
marks. a minimum of 50 marks should be obtained for each 
part to pass the examination and this examination could be 
completed in one sitting or appearing for the parts of the 
examination in several sittings. At the first attempt officer 
should appear for all relevant subjects. 
07. Syllabus of the examination :
 7.1  Written examination :
 7.1.1  Establishments code Questions Paper :
  Duration 02 hours. Should answer five 
(05) out of eight (08) questions.  
  Syllabus :
 (i)  General Regulations of the department 
of health Services in health Ministry ;
 (ii)  orders and Regulations of the Public 
Service commission ;
 (iii) establishments Code :
  Part i - chapters Vi, Vii, Viii, ix, xii, 
xiii, xiV , xV , xVi, xVii, xViii, xxiii, 
xxiV , xxV , xxVi, xxVii, xxViii, 
xxx, xxxi, xxxii
  Part ii - chapters xLVii and xLViii ;
 7.1.2  Administration of Hospitals and 
Dispensaries Questions Paper :
  duration 1 1/2 hours. total marks 100. 
Should answers four (04) questions out of 
seven (07) questions.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
644
  Syllabus :
  health Manual :
 (i) administration of hospital and Public health, 
 (ii) Management of Laboratory Services, 
 (iii) Management of drugs.
 7.1.3  Accounts Questions Paper :
  duration 02 hours. Should answers 04 questions out of 07 questions.  
  Syllabus :
  (i)  Regulations of Stores accounts of the department of health Services ;
 (ii)  Sections of finance in the Manual of the department of health Services ;
 (iii) Financial Regulations relating to the daily routine duties of a Medical Officer of Health -  
chapter i - f . R. 1, 2, 78.
chapter ii - f . R. 90, 91, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 113, 115, 118, 119.
chapter iii - f . R. 124, 125, 126, 127, 128, 131, 133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 138, 139, 140, 142, 143, 
151, 152, 154, 155, 156, 189.
chapter V - f . R. 200, 201, 215, 225, 238, 245, 255, 257, 260.
chapter Vi - f . R. 380, 381, 382, 383, 384, 385, 386, 388, 389, 390, 391, 392, 393 394.
chapter Vii - f . R. 488, 493.
chapter xiii - f . R. 715, 716, 756, 757, 758.
Procurement Guideline : 
chapter 1 - all Sections
chapter 2 - Section number - 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8.
chapter 3 - Section number - 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9.   
7.2 Viva Voce - Sinhala/Tamil : This oral test is conducted by the staff officers of the Departmental to measure the 
proficiency in Sinhala/Tamil. Ability of the Sinhala medium officers to communicate in Tamil medium and the 
ability of the Tamil medium officers to communicate in Sinhala medium regarding the matters that arise while 
discharging their normal duties is tested. duration 10 minutes. 
08. To follow the regulations related to examination Procedure.- candidates are warned against copying or 
attempting to copy from the script of another candidate or from any book or paper or notes whatsoever. No candidate should 
attempt to look at the script of another candidate and should not help any candidate either help another candidate or obtain 
help from another candidate or person. further mobile phones and the similar electronic equipments should not be used. any 
candidate who disregards this rule is liable to punishment. 
09. Please bring the contents of this circular to the notice of all relevant officers in your Division/Specialized 
compaign/institution. the information is also available in the Web Site - www.health.gov.lk
N.B.– Sinhala medium notification on examination will be effected if any contradictory is arisen in the 
examination notifications published in Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums. 
 
Janaka SugathadaSa,
 Secretary 
 Ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine. 
Ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine,  
“Suwasiripaya”,
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha,
colombo 10,
05th March, 2018.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
645
For Office Use Only   
Specimen form of Application             
dEPaRtMENtaL  ExaMiNatioN  foR  PRELiMiNaRy  GRadE
MEdicaL  officERS  aNd  dENtaL  SuRGEoNS - MaRch, 2018
01. (a)  (i)  full Name of the applicant (in Sinhala) :–––––––––––––.
 (ii)  full Name of the applicant (in English capitals Block Letters) :
 (iii)  Name with initials (in Sinhala) :–––––––––––––.
 (iv) Name with initials (in English Block Letters) :
   (b)  (i) designation (Please mark ( ) in relevant cage) :
   (i) Medical Officer   (ii) Dental Surgeon
 (ii)  date of internship appointment :–––––––––––––.
 (iii)  date of appointment to the Preliminary Grade/Grade ii :–––––––––––––.
02. Subjects offered (Mark ‘’ within the cages against the subjects you offer in this Examination. Mark “x” against the 
subjects not offered) :
 admin. of hospitals and dispensaries Establishments code  accounts
 Sinhala Viva Voce t amil Viva Voce
03. Medium you sit for the examination  (Mark ‘’ in relevant cage)
 Sinhala :                     English :                       tamil : 
04.  (a)  (i) Present Station :–––––––––––. 
  (ii) this institution belongs to :  Line Ministry
       Provincial council
 (b)   (i) if Provincial council mention Province :–––––––––––.
   (ii) district of the Present Station :–––––––––––.
 (c) Mobile telephone No. :
 (d) National identity card No. :
 (e)  Please mark  “” in the relevant cage of the examination centre you prefer out of the following centers. (if any or 
several examination centres, out of those given below, would be cancelled due to a departmental requirement or due 
to absence of a sufficient number of candidates. In such an instance, the candidates already attached to such centers 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
646
would be re-attached to a closest examination centre or to another centre as decided by the director General of 
health Services).
  colombo Kandana hambantota ampara
  Kaluthara Galle Badulla Vavuniya
  Kurunegala anuradhapura Rathnapura Polonnaruwa
  Kandy Batticaloa Jaffna trincomalie
 (f)  Whether two self-addressed envelope in the size of 9x4 inches with stamps affixed to the value of Rs. 35.00 has been 
attached to the application to post the admission card? :––––––––––.
 (g)  (i)  Postal address to post the admission card (in Sinhala) :––––––––––––.
  (ii) Postal address to post the admission card (in English) :––––––––––––.
05.  (a)  Whether you sit for the examination for the first time :––––––––––––.
 (b)  If not so, have you affixed stamps to the application? :––––––––––––.
Stamp cage
06. Certificate of the Candidate :
 (i)  i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge 
and I need not affix stamps since, I sit the Examination for the first time/have affixed stamps to the value of                  
Rs. ………… since i repeat the Examination,* and the stamps affixed by me to the application are genuine and 
not used.
 (ii)  i agree to abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by the Ministry of health, Nutrition to indigenous 
Medicine for the conduct of this Examination and if i was found ineligible in accordance with the scheme of the 
Examination i agree with whatever decision taken for the cancellation of my candidature.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the candidate.
date :–––––––––––.
07. Certification of the officer who handle the Personal File : 
i certify that this application was handed over to me before the closing date and particulars furnished by the applicant 
in this application are true and accurate according to the particulars in the personal file and a copy of this application is 
attached to the personal file. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Name and Signature.
date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
647
08. Certification of Head of Institution :
 
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ……….................. serves as a ................................... in this institution, and the 
particulars furnished by him/her in the application are correct according to the particulars in his/her personal file, and                 
he/she sit the examination for the first time and he/she is eligible to sit this examination and he/she placed his/her signature 
in my presence.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of institution.
 (Rubber Stamp)
date :–––––––––––.
09. Certificate of the Head of Decentralized Unit/Specialized Campaign :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss ………..................…… serves as a Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon* in my Division/Campaign* 
and the particulars furnished by him/her* in the application are correct in accordance with the particulars available in his/
her* personal file and he/she* is eligible to sit for the Examination.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of head of decentralized unit/
 Specialized campaign (frank/Rubber Stamp).
date :––––––––––––.
(* - delete words which are inapplicable)
03–767
––––––––––––––––––––
EffICIENCy bAR ExAmINATIONS fOR OffICERS IN GRADE III Of CLASS 3, GRADE II 
Of CLASS 3, GRADE I Of CLASS 3, GRADE II Of CLASS 2 AND GRADE I Of CLASS 2 Of SRI 
LANkA INfORmATION AND COmmuNICATION TEChNOLOGy SERvICE - 2017 (II)
1.0 It is hereby notified that Efficiency Bar Examinations for the officers in Grade III of Class 3, Grade II of Class 3, Grade 
i of class 3, Grade ii of class 2 and Grade i of class 2 of Sri Lanka information and communication technology Service 
- 2017 (ii) will be held in colombo during weekends from 7th april 2018 to 08th april 2018, by the director General 
of Sri Lanka institute of development administration, under the supervision of Ministry of Public administration and 
Management.
2.0 (a)  these examination shall be held as per the provisions of the Minute of Sri Lanka information and communication 
technology Service published in the Gazette extra Ordinary No. 1894/26 dated 26.12.2014.
 (b)  If there are officers  who have not passed the Efficiency Bar examination, because no prescription has been 
made either in the procedure of recruitment of the previous post or in the letter of appointment in respect of the 
Efficiency Bar, they shall pass the Efficiency Bar examination prescribed for the Grade of the  relevant Class 
within a concessionary period of three years from the date on which above Service Minute has been published 
in the Gazette Notification.
 3.0 Efficiency Bar Examinations which are due to be held in respect of the above services will be as follows :
Serial 
No.
Name of the examination Code
1. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade III of Class 3 of Sri Lanka Information 
and communication technology Service.
SLict 3iii
2. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade II of Class 3 of Sri Lanka Information and 
communication technology Service.
SLict 3ii
3. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade I of Class 3 of Sri Lanka Information and 
communication technology Service.
SLict 3i
4. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade II of Class 2 of Sri Lanka Information and 
communication technology Service.
SLict 2ii
5. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade I of Class 2 of Sri Lanka Information and 
communication technology Service.
SLict 2i
                          

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
648
 4.0 the candidat es will be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the director General of Sri 
Lanka institute of development administration 
with regard to this examination. candidates 
will be subjected to any punishment imposed by 
disciplinary authority for violation of these rules.
 
 5.0 application can be submitted online for this 
examination and accordingly candidates can 
fill their applications by way of opening the sub 
menu  "Examination" from the main menu of the                  
www.slida.lk which is the official website of Sri 
Lanka institute of development administration.
 
  filling of applications is strictly allowed during the 
period from 8.00 a.m. on 16th March 2018 up to 
12.00 midnight on 02nd april 2018.   
 6.0 examination Fees.– The officers appearing for 
the examination for the first time need not pay 
the examination fees. however, for subsequent 
sitting officers shall pay Rs. 500/- for more than 
1 subjects and they are required to pay Rs. 300.00 
if they sit for only one subject. Examination fee 
shall be paid by any post office all over the island 
(except sub post offices) or by using credit cards 
through the official web site of Sri Lanka Institute 
of development administration www.slida.
lk. Payment should be credited to the "SLida" 
account and the number of the receipt issued shall 
be indicated in the relevant cages of the application. 
When filling the application for inland telegraphic 
money order (format 85) for payment of money to 
"SLida" account, "SLida" should be mentioned 
as the recipient. in the meantime, the code name of 
the relevant examination shall be indicated at the 
place for the recipient's address. (the code names 
should be as mentioned in section 03)
  further, when crediting money to the account, the 
application shall be filled including the name of 
the applicant as the remitter and the N.i.c. number 
of the applicant at the space for the address of the 
remitter.
 7.0 When the application filled online is submitted, 
the candidate will be issued a confirmation number 
and the candidate shall keep it for further inquiries. 
candidates shall be able to get their admission 
card of the examination by way of following the 
instructions indicated in the web page to which the 
candidate shall have the access once the application 
duly perfected is sent online. the candidate shall 
get a printed copy of the admission card and get 
his signature certified by the respective Head of the 
Department or a deputy officer authorized by the 
Head for the purpose. The admission card certified 
in this manner shall be submitted to the Supervisor 
of the examination.
 8.0 Any clarification regarding the process for 
submitting applications can be obtained through 
the telephone Number 011-5980236 of Sri 
Lanka institute of development administration 
communication can be made through this line from 
8.30 a.m. up to 4.30 p.m. during working days of 
the week from 16th March, 2018 up to 02nd april 
2018.       
 9.0 heads of departments should grant duty leave for 
the officers who possess admissions enabling them 
to sit for the examination. if it is required to get 
their candidature confirmed, it can be done through 
the telephone Number 011 - 5980236. candidates 
shall not be paid travelling expenses for appearing 
for the examination.
 10.0    Identity of Candidates.- candidates will be required 
to prove their identity at the  examination hall to 
the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject 
they offer. for this purpose one of the following 
documents should be submitted to the supervisor.
 (i) the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons,
 (ii) a  valid Passport
  the candidature of those who fail to produce any of 
the above - mentioned documents may be cancelled 
at the discretion of the director General of Sri 
Lanka institute of development administration.
 11.0 the examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil 
and English media. The officers shall sit for this 
examination in the language medium in which 
they have sat for the examination for entering 
into the relevant service or in an official language. 
The officers who have joined the service without  
a competitive examination shall sit for this 
examination in the language medium of education 
or an official language. Candidates shall not be 
allowed change language medium applied initially.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
649
 12.0 The officers may, on their discretion can appear for each subject of the examination at different sittings.    
 13.0 the results of the examination shall be published in the web site of the Ministry of Public administration and 
Management by the director General of combined Services once the results are issued by the director General of 
Sri Lanka institute of development administration. the relevant heads of departments shall make recommendation 
for confirmation of service and promotions of the officers according to the results.
 14.0 Scheme of examination.–  Subjects and the syllabus of each Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers are as 
follows :–
 14.1 Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade III of Class 3 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service (Schedule 8 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade III of Class 3 of Sri 
Lanka information and communication technology Service, which belongs to combined Service, to sit for this 
examination. 
Subject Subject 
No.
Marks Duration Cut - off marks 
prescribed for a  pass
Establishments code 01 100 01 hour 40
financial Regulation 02 100 01 hour 40
  14.1.1 Establishment code (Subject No.- 01)
    It is expected to measure the basic knowledge of the public officer on the Establishments Code and 
Procedural Rules of Public Service commission. the question paper consists of questions for short 
answers and structured questions. all the questions shall be answered.
  14.1.2 financial Regulations (Subject No.- 02)
    It is expected to measure the basic knowledge of the officer on Financial Regulation and Store management 
and the understanding on the activities related to cash control registers. the question consists of questions 
for short answers and structured questions. all the questions shall be answered.
 14.2 Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade II of Class 3 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service (Schedule 9 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade II of Class 3 of Sri 
Lanka information and communication technology Service, which belongs to combined Service, to sit for this 
examination.
Subject Subject No. Marks Duration Cut - off marks 
Prescribed for a pass
Office systems and procedure 03 100 02 hours 40
information and communication technology 04 100 03 hours 40
 
  14.2.1 Office system and procedure (Subject No - 03)
    It is expected to measure the knowledge of the candidates on the office system applied in public offices 
and ability to apply them. the question paper consists of structured questions. all the questions shall be 
answered.
  14.2.2 information and communication technology (Subject No - 04)
    it is expected to test the knowledge of the candidates on the wider application of ict  and the common 
concepts ICT in public offices. (The method of application of ICT in Government organizations. The 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
650
papers will be consisted following ict areas such as adequate knowledge on computer Networks and data 
Communication, knowledge on General Purpose Software and Specific Application Software, Knowledge 
on data Security and Backing up SW, Basic measure to enhance availability of computer systems and data 
security.)
    the paper consist of two parts.
    Part i - a multiple choice question paper. duration is 01 hour. (40 marks)
    Part ii - Essay type question paper. duration 02 hours. (60 Marks)
 14.3 Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade I of Class 3 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service (Schedule 10 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade I of Class 3 of Sri 
Lanka information and communication technology Service, which belongs to combined Service, to sit for this 
examination. 
Subject Subject 
No.
Marks Duration Cut - off marks 
prescribed for a  pass
information and communication technology 
(Written test)
05 50 01 hour 20
information and communication technology 
(Practical test)
06 50 01 hour 20
 14.3.1 information and communication technology - Written test (Subject No. 05)
 (i) Application of software for office activities and knowledge in this regard,
 (ii) Knowledge in computer networking
 (iii) Knowledge in identification and rectification of errors in computer Software/Hardware.
  this question paper consists of  questions for short answers and essay type questions. all the 
questions shall be answered. 
 14.3.2 information and communication technology - Practical test (Subject No. 06)
 (i) Practical knolwedge in using software for office activities,
 (ii) Practical knowledge in computer networking, 
 (iii) Practical knowledge in identification and rectification of errors in computer Software/Hardware.
 14.4 Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade II of Class 2 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service (Schedule 11 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade II of Class 2 of Sri 
Lanka information and communication technology Service, which belongs to combined Services, to sit for 
this examination.
Subject Subject 
No.
Marks Duration Cut - off marks 
prescribed for a  pass
Establishments code 07 100 02 hours 40
financial Regulations 08 100 02 hours 40
   
  14.4.1 Establishment code (Subject No - 07)
    It is excepted to test the general knowledge of the officer on provisions in Establishments Code/ Procedural 
rules of the Public Service commission and his/her ability to apply his/her knowledge practically. this 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
651
paper shall be prepared based on chapters of V olume i and V olume ii of the Establishments code and 
Procedural rules of the Public Service commission. this question paper consists of questions for short 
answers and structured type questions. all the questions shall be answered.
  14.4.2 financial Regulations (Subject No. 08)
    it is expected to test basic knowledge and understanding of the candidate on Government financial 
Regulations and the purposes of various registers and log books maintained in public office and basis 
knowledge of store keeping. this question paper consists of questions for short answers and structured 
type questions. all the questions shall be answered.
 14. 5 Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade I of Class 2 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service (Schedule 12 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade I of Class 2 of Sri 
Lanka information and communication technology Service, which belongs to combined Service, to sit for this 
examination.
Subject Subject 
No. Marks Duration Cut - off marks 
prescribed for a pass
Office Systems and Procedure 09 100 02 hours 40
information and communication 
technology and e - government 10 100 03 hours 40
  14.5.1 Office Systems and procedure (Subject No. 09)
    It is expected to test the knowledge of the candidate on office systems applied in government offices 
and also to test the ability to apply the same. this question paper consist of multiple choice questions, 
questions for short answers and structured type questions. all the questions shall be answered.
  14.5.2 information and communication technology and e - government (Subject No. 10)
    this question consists of two parts.
    Part i - a multiple choice question paper, duration is 01 hour. (40 marks)
    Part ii - a Question paper consisting of structured essay type questions. duration is 02 hours. (60 marks)
    (all questions shall be answered)
    This question papers shall be tesigned to covers the following subject fields. 
 (a) information and communication part of the paper consists of basic elements of it project life cycle 
such as systems analysis, systems design, software development testing user acceptance testing and 
related areas of algorithms, htML, xtML, php, data and information Security, disaster Recovery, 
systems, intellectual Property Rights and Software licensing, free and open Software and web 2.0.
 (b) e - Government part of the paper consist of system of application of ict in government organizations, 
application of ICT to enhance the efficiency in delivery of public services, Technology requirements 
for e - Government systems, basic elements of ict and interoperability.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
652
  the time table for each subject of each examination is as follows ;
Serial 
No.
Name of the examination Subject Subject 
No.
Date Time
01 Efficiency Bar Examinations for 
Officers in Grade III of Class 3 
of Sri Lanka information and 
communication technology 
Service
Establishments code 01 2018.04.08 9.00 a.m. - 
10.00 a.m
financial Regulations 02 2018.04.08 10.30 a.m. - 
11.30 a.m.
02 Efficiency Bar Examinations 
for Officers in Grade II of Class 
3 of Sri Lanka information and 
communication technology 
Service
Office Systems and 
procedure
03 2018.04.07 1.00 p.m. - 
3.00 p.m.
information and 
communication technology
04 2018.04.07 9.00 a.m. - 
12.00 p.m.
03 Efficiency Bar Examinations 
for Officers in Grade I of Class 
3 of Sri Lanka information and 
communication technology 
Service
information and 
communication technology 
(Written test)
05 2018.04.07 9.00 a.m. - 
10.00 a.m.
information and 
communication technology 
(Practical test)
06 2018.04.07 10.30 a.m. - 
11.30 a.m.
04 Efficiency Bar Examinations 
for Officers in Grade II of Class 
2 of Sri Lanka information and 
communication technology 
Service
Establishments code 07 2018.04.08 9.00 a.m. - 
11.00 a.m.
financial Regulations 08 2018.04.08 11.30 a.m. - 
1.30 p.m.
05 Efficiency Bar Examinations 
for Officers in Grade I of Class 
2 of Sri Lanka information and 
communication technology 
Service
Office Systems and 
procedure
09 2018.04.08 1.00 p.m. - 
3.00 p.m.
information and 
communication technology 
and e-government
10 2018.04.08 9.00 a.m. - 
12.00 p.m.
 15.0 any matter not referred to herein will be decided by director General of combined Services.
 16.0 In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this notification, the Sinhala text 
shall prevail.
  K. V . P. M. J. 
gamage,
  director General of combined Services
  Ministry of Public administration and    
 Management.
Ministry of Public administration and Management,
independence Square,
colombo 07,
28th of february, 2018.
03-673
                  

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
653
DEPARTmENT Of AyuRvEDA 
Efficiency  Bar  Examination  of  Sri  Lanka  Ayurvedic  
medical  Service - 2017-(I)
IT is hereby notify that an Efficiency Bar Examination 
for ayurvedic Medical Service (for ayurvedic Medical 
Officers) will be held in Colombo by the Department of 
ayurveda. 
01. candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner of ayurveda. 
02. the application for this examination should be in the 
form of the specimen appendix to this notification and should 
be prepared by the candidate him/herself. application should 
be sent by those who are qualified according to the service 
minute of the Sri Lanka ayurvedic Medical Service, by the 
registered post through the respective heads of institution to 
reach the "Registrar, Examination division, department of 
ayurveda, Nawinna, Maharagama" on or before 29.03.2018 
"Efficiency Bar Examination for Sri Lanka Ayurvedic 
Medical Service - 2017 (i)" should be indicated at the top 
left hand corner of the envelope containing the application. 
applications received after the closing date will be rejected. 
the candidates appearing for the examination for the 
first time need not to pay examination fees. However, 
stamps to the value of Rs. 230 should be affixed for the 
whole examinations for subsequent sittings and stamps to 
the value of Rs. 57.50 per subject should be affixed if not 
applying for the whole examination. the stamp should be 
duly cancelled by placing signature of the candidate and the 
date. under any circumstance the fees will not be refunded 
or transferred. 
03. Identity of the candidates .– candidates will be 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall to 
the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they offer. 
for this purpose one of the following documents should be 
submitted to the supervisor :–
 (i) the National identity card issued by department 
of Registration of Persons ;
 (ii) a  valid Passport. 
04. the commissioner, department of ayurveda will 
issue the timetable and admission card to all candidates 
whose applications have been accepted. candidates should 
get their signature on the admission card attested in advance 
and submit to the supervisor of the examination hall. 
candidates without admission cards will not be permitted 
to sit for the examination. if a candidate has not received 
his/her admission card at least seven days (07) before the 
day of examination. he/She should without delay inform the 
"Registrar, Examination division, department of ayurveda, 
Nawinna, Maharagama" about the non-receipt of admission 
cards along with the following information : 
 (i) Name of the Examination :–––––––––––.
 (ii) full Name of the candidate :–––––––––––.
 (iii) Postal address :–––––––––––.
 (iv) Name of the Post Office, Registration Number and 
date of the Receipt :–––––––––––.
05. Scheme of examination.- (according to the service 
minute of the Sri Lanka ayurvedic Medical Service) :
 i. Financial Regulation - One paper based on the 
following :
 (i) financial Regulation of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka Part i (Except 
chapter x).
 ii. establishment Code - one paper based on the 
following :
 (i) chapters - i, ii, iii, iV , V , Vi, Vii, Viii, xii, 
xiii, xiV , xxiii, xxVii, xxix, xxx, xxxii 
of the V olume i of the Establishment code of 
the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
and Procedural Rules code of the Public Service 
commission. 
 (ii) chapters - xLVii and xLViii of Part ii of the 
Establishment code of democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka. 
 iii. Hospital Administration - one paper based on the 
following :–
 (i) General rules and regulations relevant to the 
hospitals. 
 (ii) cleanliness in hospital. 
 (iii) Rules and Regulations relevant to the patients. 
 (iv) Supply proper meals to the patients. 
 (v) administration of drug manufactures. 
 (vi) Rules and Regulations regarding the admission 
of patients. 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
654
 (vii) Knowledge of the duties of all the employees 
in the hospitals. 
 (viii) General administration in hospitals. 
 (ix) General administration of the department of 
ayurveda. 
 (x) Regulation of the stores accounts of the 
department of ayurveda. 
 (xi) Manual of procedure of the department of 
ayurveda.
 iV. Official Languages - oral test. Sinhala/tamil (15 
minutes) :
 (i) For officers who joined the service in Sinhala 
Medium :
 (a)  answering the tamil questions in tamil 
Language. 
 (b)  translate tamil sentences to Sinhala 
Language. 
 (c)  translate Sinhala sentences to tamil 
Language. 
 (ii) For officers who joined the service in Tamil 
Medium :
 (a)  answering the Sinhala questions in Sinhala  
Language. 
 (b)  translate Sinhala sentences to tamil 
Language. 
 (c)  translate tamil sentences to Sinhala 
Language. 
Note.– candidate must obtain at least 40 marks to pass 
in each subject. 
 
Janaka SugathadaSa, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of health Nutrition
 and indigenous Medicine. 
Ministry of health Nutrition and 
indigenous Medicine, 
No. 464, 04th floor, t. B. Jaya Mawatha, 
Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha, 
colombo 10,
22nd february, 2018. 
SPEciMEN  aPPLicatioN  foRM 
efficiency  Bar  examination  of  Sri  lanka 
ayurvedic  medical  Service - 2017-(i)
   index No. : 
   (For office use only)
   Medium of Examination : 
   (Write the relevant letter in the cage)
   Sinhala - S    tamil - t
01. Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
 (in English capital Letters)
02. Name with initials :––––––––––––.
 (in Sinhala/tamil)
03. Name denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
 (in English capital Letters)
04. Name denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
 (in Sinhala/tamil Letters)
05. National identity card No. : 
06. (i) Name and address of the Office/Department/
institute (in English capital Letters) :–––––––––.
 (ii) Province of the Office/Department/Institute :                
–––––––––.
07. (i) Name and address of the Office/Department/
institute (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Telephone No. (Official) :––––––––––––.
08. (i) Post :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Number and date of the letter of appointment : –––
–––––––.
09. Subject/Subjects you wish to face : 
Serial Number Subject Subject No. 
10. have you passed one or more subjects from any of the 
following subjects in previous examination sittings. 

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
655
financial Regulations/Establishment code/hospitals 
Management/oral Examination (tamil/Sinhala) : 
 if so, index No., year and Month : 
Subject Index No. Year and Month
11. Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :    
–––––––––––.
 If not, value of the stamps affixed :––––––––––––.
 Stamp cage : 
stamp to the value of Rs. 230 for the whole 
examination and Rs. 57.50 for each subject 
Note.– The candidate should affix stamps to the relevant 
value and cancel them by placing their signature and 
date. Stamps should not overlap each other. 
i declare that the above particulars are true that i am 
eligible to appear for the examination in the language medium 
indicated above. i also certify that the Rs. ........................... 
stamps affixed here to are genuine and have not been used 
before. i agree to abide by the rules and regulations of this 
examination. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the candidate. 
date :––––––––––––.
Note.– the candidate should sign in the presence of the head 
of his/her Department/Institute or an officer authorized 
to sign on behalf of such head of the department. 
Attestation of the Signature 
i do hereby certify that ............................. who forward 
this application is an officer attached to my office/known 
to me personally and that he/she placed his/her signature 
before me on ......................
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature and rubber stamp 
  of the attester. 
Name of the attester :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
03–731
RECRuITmENT (OPEN) TO ThE POST Of 
fOREmEN (bIO mEDICAL) - GRADE III/
TRAINING GRADE Of ThE SuPERvISORy 
mANAGEmENT ASSISTANT NON - 
TEChNICAL/TEChNICAL SERvICE 
CATEGORy Of ThE SRI LANkA 
TEChNOLOGICAL SERvICE - 2018
aPPLicatioNS are invited from those who possess 
following qualifications to recruit as trainees to the post of 
foremen (Bio Medical) Grade iii/t raining Grade under 
Ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine up 
to 16.04.2018.
Eligible persons will be selected for the training on the 
basis of merit of an open competitive examination conducted 
by the Ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous 
Medicine.
02. Qualifications :
 2.1  Educational Qualifications :
 (a)  Should have passed 3 subjects including two 
subjects from Pure Maths, applied maths, 
combined Maths and Physics in one Siting at 
the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination.
or
 (b)  Should have passed 6 subjects with credit 
passes for Sinhala/t amil/English Language, 
Mthematics, Science and one other subject in 
one sitting at the G. c. E.(o/L) Examination.
 2.2  Vocational Qualifications :
 (i)  National diploma in technology (Electronic/
Eletrical) offered by university of Moratuwa 
and hady advanced technological institute, 
ampara 
or
 (ii)  National diploma in Engineering (Electronic/
Electrical) offered by National apprentice and 
industrial training authority
or
 (iii) diploma in technology (Electronic/Electrical) 
offered by open university of Sri Lanka
or
 (iv)  higher National diploma in Engineering 
(Electronic/Electrical) offered by Ministry of 
Education and higher Education.
or
 (v)  Should have successfully completed the Part 
i of Engineering Examination conducted by 
institution of Engineers of Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
656
Note.– Eligibility of the candidates who have satisfied 
above educational and vocational qualifications will 
be checked in the order of merit of the examination 
and they will be appointed to the post of foremen (Bio 
medical) in Grade iii.
Candidates who have satisfied above educational 
qualifications but not the vocational qualifications 
will be recruited to the post of foreman (Bio Medical) 
in training Grade after checking the eligibility in the 
order of merit of the examination.
03. Period of training of the candidates who are recruited 
to the Training Grade is one year. Those who pass the final 
examination conducted at the end of the training period will 
be appointed to the post of foremen (Bio Medical) - Grade 
iii.
 3.1  trainees admitted to the train ing will be subject 
to the rules and regulations prevail in the training 
schools/institutes and orders imposed by the 
Ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous 
Medicine from time to time. training of those 
who fail the prescribed examinations, whose work 
and conduct are not satisfactory or who fail to 
conform to terms and conditions of examination 
and conditions of leave in the training school, may 
be terminated without compensation at any time.
 3.2  at the time he/she is admitted to the training 
school, he/she should enter into an agreement 
with the director General of health Services that 
he/she will complete the training successfully, 
not abandon the training course and serve in the 
hospitals/institutes under the Ministry of health 
for at least a period of 10 years if an appointment is 
granted after completing the said training. if he/she 
resigns from the training or abandon the training 
within the period of training or his/her training is 
terminated as per above section 3.2, he/she should 
refund to the Ministry of health the amount of 
allowance paid to him./her and expenses incurred 
on him/her by the Government during the period of 
training. if not, action will be taken to recover the 
said amount as per the agreem ent. (appointees to 
Grade iii also should enter in to an agreement with 
the director General of health Services that he/
she will serve in the hospitals/institutes under the 
Ministry of health at least for a period of 10 years)
 3.3 Since this course is a fulltime course, those who 
follow a full time course in a university or an 
institute under the Ministry of health or any other 
government institute should not apply for this. if it 
is found to have applied so he/she will be dismissed 
from the course/post and all expenses incurred on 
him/her by the Government up to that, will be 
recovered.
04. Other Qualifications :
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 (ii) Should possess a good character
 (iii) Should be fit mentally and physically
05. Scheme of examination :-
Subjects Duration Total 
Marks
Pass 
Marks
Syllabus
intelligence 
test 
2 hours 100 40% this paper 
will be 
prepared to 
check the 
ability and 
aptitude  of 
the candidate 
for duties in 
the service
Subject 
related 
techno- 
ogical test 
1 1/2 
hours
100 40% this paper 
will be 
prepared 
to measure 
technological 
knowledge 
relevant to 
the post
06. Salary Scale :-
training Grade :- allowance will be paid in terms of the 
schedule (v) of the Public administration circular : 
03/2016 (ii)
Grade ii :- Rs.31,040 - 10 x 445 - 11 x 660 - 10 x 730 - 10 
x 750 - Rs. 57,550 (Monthly)
MN - 3 2006(a) (Salaries will be paid in terms of the 
Schedule ii of Pa circular No. 03/2016)
07. Age Limit.– applicants should be Sri Lankan citizens 
who are not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years 
of age as at.
08. Terms of engagement :-
 (i) Officers recruited should be willing to serve in 
any part of the island.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
657
 (ii) this post is permanent and pensionable. you 
shall be subject to policy decisions taken by 
the Government in future in respect of the 
Pension, Scheme entitled to you. and,you should 
contribute to the widows and orphan pension 
scheme you should make contribution to that as 
ordered by the Government from time to time.
 (iii) Merit is determined based on the marks of the 
final examination conducted at the end of the 
training. you will be attached to service stations 
considering the merit obtained as such and the 
declaration of option for the institutions where  
vacancies exist. it is compulsory to report for 
the duties at the service station to which you 
are attached. appeals in respect of that are not 
considered.
09. Employees in the Public/semi - government 
institutions should forward their applications throught the 
respective head of department/institute.
10. applications which are not conforming to the 
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
11. the receipt of the application will not be 
acknowledged. applications received after the closing date 
of applications will be rejected.
12. Eligible candidates will be called for the examination 
and informed the same to the address mentioned in the 
application.
13. Method of Application :-
 (a) applications prepared in compliance with the 
specimen form appended to this should be sent 
under registered cover to the following address 
and not personally to any officer.
 (b) closing date of applications is 16.04.2018.
 (c) the words "Recruitment (open) to the  training/
Post of foremen (Bio Medical) - 2018'' should 
be mentioned on the top left hand corner of the 
envelop containing the application.
 (d) examination fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 500 
the receipt obtained from any branch of Bank of 
ceylon by paying this amount to the credit of the 
account of director General of health Services 
No. 7041318 of the Bank of ceylon thaprobane 
Branch should be affixed on the cage given under 
No. 13 in the application so as not to be detached. 
(Money orders and stamps will be rejected.)
 
  address : director (admin) 07,
 Ministry of health, Nutrition and 
  indigenous Medicine 
  "Suwasiripaya",
  No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero  
  Mawatha,
  colombo 10.
14. Attestation of the signature.– Signature of the 
applicant should be attested by an officer in the Sri Lanka 
administrative Service/Educational administrative 
Service/Government accountants' Service/a Principal of a 
Government School/a Justice of the Peace/attorney at Law 
or a Public officer who holds a permanent and pensionable 
post and get a salary of not less than Rs. 240,360 per annum.
NB :
* It should be certified that every section of the 
application is perfected and such particulars are 
accurate.
* all candidates recruited as mentioned above will be 
subject to all rules and regulations applicable to 
public servants, provisions of Establishments code 
of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, 
Provisions and rules of the Service Minute of Sri 
Lanka technological Service, Policies stipulated 
by the Ministry of health, financial Regulations 
and other regulations and rules, regulations and 
orders imposed by the Government from time to 
time.
* in case any problem arises in respect of any matter 
regarding recruitment to the posts which is covered 
or not covered by this Gazette notification, the 
decision of the Secretary to Ministry of health, 
Nutrition and indigenous Medicine will be find.
* in the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, tamil and English texts of this Gazette 
Notification, the Sinhala text will prevail.
* you have no right to engage in trade union activities 
or private practice during the period of training. 
and you have also no right to engage in the private 
practice after appointment, if an appointment is 

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
658
grantated at the end of the training. if if will be 
found to have done so. legal action will be taken.
 Janaka SugathadaSa,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of health, Nutrition and 
 indigenous Medicine.
Ministry of health, Nutrition and 
 indigenous, Medicine,
"Suwasiripaya"
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha,
colombo 10,
22nd february, 2018.
Recruitment (Open) ministry of health to the Post of 
foremen (bio medical) training for the post of foreman 
(bio medical) of the Supervisory management Assistant 
Non Techinical/Technical Service Catogory in the       
Sri Lanka Technological Service - 2018
 district of residence 
Medium in which you sit for the examination :
Sinhala  - S
tamil  -  t
English  -  E
01.
  (i) Last Name with initials (in Sinhala) :––––––––––.
  (ii) Last Name with initials (in English capital letters) 
:––––––––––.
  (iii) full Name (in Sinhala) :––––––––––.
  (iv) full Name (in English capial Letters) :––––––––.
02. Permanent address :
  (i) in Sinhala :––––––––––.
  (ii) in English capital Letters :––––––––––.
03.  National identity card No. :–––––––––.
  telephone No. :–––––––––.
04.  Whether citizen of Sri Lanka :––––––––––.
05.  Gender :––––––––––.
06.  district of permanent residence of the candidate :–––––.
07.  Electorate :––––––––––.
08.  date and place of Birth :
  y ear :––––––––. Month :––––––––. date :––––––––.
  ages as at : 
 y ears  :––––––––. Months :––––––––. days :––––––––.
09. civil Status :––––––––––.
10.  Educational Qualifications :
 (a)  G. c. E.( o/L) Examination :
    y ear :––––––––––.      index No. :––––––––––.
  Subject Grade
 01
 02
 03
 04
 05
 06
 07
 08
 09
 10
 (b) G. c. E. (a/L) Examination :
  Subject   Grade
 01
 02
 03
 04
 (c)   Technological qualifications obtained as mentioned 
under 2.2 of the notification :–––––––––––.
 (d)  Other Special Qualifications and Experience :                 
–––––––––––.  
11.  have you been convicted by a court of law ? ( if yes, 
give particulars) :–––––––––––.
12.  i hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in 
this application are true and correct. i am also aware 
that if any particulars contained herein are found to be 
false or incorrect before selection the application will 
be cancelled and if so found after selection. i am liable 
to be dismissed without any compensation.
Affix the receipt obtained by paying Rs. 500 to a Bank of 
ceylon branch so as not to be detached.
  ––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
659
13. attestation of the signature :
i hereby certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss…............... who 
submits this application is know to me personally and placed 
his/her signature....................... in my presence.
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the attestor.
date :––––––––––.
* full Name of the attestor :––––––––––.
* designation :––––––––––.
(Authenticate with the official Frank)
* address :––––––––––.
03-646
–––––––––––––––––
Serial
No
Name of the examination Code
3. Efficiency Bar Examination for 
officers in Grade 1 of Class 1 
of Sri Lanka information and 
communication technology 
Service
SLict 1 
(i)
4.0 the candidates will be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the director General of Sri Lanka 
institute of development administration with regard to this 
examination .candidates will be subjected to any punishment 
imposed by disciplinary authority for violation of these 
rules. 
5.0 application can be submitted online for this 
examination and accordingly candidates can fill their 
applications by way of opening the sub menu "Examination" 
from the main menu of the www.slida.lk . Which is the 
official website of Sri Lanka Institute of Development 
administration.
filling of applications is strictly allowed during the 
period from 8.00 a.m on 16
th of March 2018 up to 12.00 
midnight on 02nd of april 2018.
6.0 examination Fees.– The officers appearing for the 
examination for the first time need not pay the examination 
fees. However for subsequent sitting officers shall pay           
Rs 500/= for more than 1 subjects and they are required to 
pay Rs 300/- if they sit for only for one subject Examination 
fee shall be paid by any post office all over the island 
(except sub post office ) or by using credit cards through 
the official web site of Sri Lanka Institute of Development 
administration www.slida.lk payment should be credited to 
the "SLida" account and the number of the receipt issued 
shall be indicated in the relevant cages of the application 
when filling the application for inland telegraphic money 
order (format 85) for payment of money to "SLida" 
account "SLida" should be mentioned as the recipient in 
the meantime the code name of the relevant examination 
shall be indicated at the place for the recipi ent's address 
(the code names should be as mentioned in Section 03).
further when crediting money to the account the 
application shall be filled including the name of the applicant 
as the remitter and the N.i.c number of the applicant at the 
space for the address of the remitter
7.0 When the application filled online is submitted the 
candidate will be issued a confirmation number and the 
EffICIENCy bAR ExAmINATIONS fOR 
OffICERS IN GRADE III Of CLASS 1 GRADE II 
Of CLASS 1 AND GRADE I Of CLASS 1 Of SRI 
LANkA INfORmATION AND COmmuNICATION 
TEChNOLOGy SERvICE - 2017(II)
 
it is herby notified that Efficiency Bar Examination for the 
officers in grade III of Class I, Grade II of Class I and Grade 
i of class i of Sri Lanka information and communication 
technology Service- 2017(ii) will be held in colombo 
during weekends on 7th of April 2018 to 08th of April 
2018 by the director General of Sri Lanka institute of 
development administration and Management .
2.0 these examinations shall be held as per the provisions 
of the Minute of Sri Lanka information and communication 
technology Service published in the Gazette Extra ordinary 
No. 1894/26 dated 26.12.2014.
3.0 Efficiency Bar Examination which are due to be held 
in respect of the above services will be as follows :–
Serial
No.
Name of the examination Code
1. Efficiency Bar Examination for 
officers in Grade III of Class 1 
of Sri Lanka information and 
communication technology Service
SLict 1 
(iii)
2. Efficiency Bar Examination for 
officers in Grade II of Class 1 
of Sri Lanka information  and 
communication technology 
Service
SLict 1 
(ii)

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
660
candidate shall keep it for further inquiries candidates shall be able to get their admission card of the examination by way of 
following the instructions indicated in the web page to which the candidate shall have the access once the application duly 
perfected is sent online. The candidate shall get a printed copy of the admission card and get his signature certified by the 
respective Head of the Department or a deputy officer authorized by the Head for purpose. The admission card certified in 
this manner shall be submitted to the supervisor of the examination.
8.0 Any clarification regarding the process for submitting applications can be obtained through the telephone 
number 011-5980236 of Sri Lanka institute of development administration.
communication can be made through this line from 8.30 a.m up to 4.30 p.m during working days of the week from 
16
th of March 2018 up to 02nd of april 2018.
9.0 heads of department should grant duty leave for the officers who possess admissions enabling them to sit 
for the examination. If it is required to get their candidature confirmed, it can be done through the telephone number 011-
5980236. candidates shall not be paid traveling expenses for appearing for the examination.
10.0 Identity of Candidates.– candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of he supervisor for each subject they offer . for this purpose one of the following documents should be submitted 
to the supervisor :
 (i)  the National identity card issued by the department of Registration of persons.
 (ii)  a valid passport
the candidates of those who fail to produce any of the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the 
discretion of the director General of Sri Lanka institute of development administration.
11.0 The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media. The officers shall sit for this examination in 
the language medium in which they have sat for examination for entering into the  relevant service or in an official language. 
The officers who have joined the service without a competitive examination shall sit for this examination in the language 
medium of education or an official language. Candidates shall not be allowed change language medium applied initially.
12.0 The officers may, on their discretion can appear for each subject of the examination at different sittings.
13.0 the results of the examination shall be published in the web site of the Ministry of public administration and 
Management by the Secretary, Ministry of public administration and Management once the results are issued by the director 
General of Sri Lanka  institute of development administration to the secretary, Ministry of public administration and 
Management. The relevant Heads of Departments shall make recommendation for confirmation of service and promotions 
of the officers according to the results.
14.0 Scheme of examination.– Subjects and the syllabus of each Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers are as 
follows :
 14.1  Efficiency Bar Examina tion for Officers in Grade III of Class 1 of Sri Lanka Information and 
Communication Technology Service (Schedule 13 of the service minute) The officers shall be in Grade 
iii of class 1 of Sri Lanka information and communication technology Service, which belongs to public 
Service to sit for this examination
Subject Subject
No
Marks Duration Cut-off marks 
prescribed for a pass
Establishments code and administration 01 100 03 hours 40
financial Regulations and public sector 
financial Management
02 100 03 hours 40
Management and organization 03 100 03 hours 40

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
661
 14.1.1  Establishments code and administration (subject No. 01)
  a  question paper based on the following :–
 (i)  Organizing office and field activities and methods of organization.
 (ii)  the following chapter of the Establishments code
  i, ii, iii, V , Vi, Vii, ix, xi, xxiii, xxV , xxVi, xxVii, xxViii, xxix, xxx, xxxi, 
xxxii, xxxiii, xLVii and xLViii
 (iii)  Procedural Rules of public service commission. this question paper consists of essay type 
questions.
 14.1.2  financial Regulations and public Sector financial Management (subject No-02) one question 
paper based on the following 
 (a)  fiscal Governance in Sri Lanka, consititutional provisions relating to public financial 
Management, parliamentary control over Public finance, Meaning of fund consolidated 
fund and its operation meaning and methods of appropriation, contingencies fund, other funds 
and their operation, government Revenue powers and functions of the Minister of finance 
Warrants and impress authority. auditor General, his powers and functions, committee on 
Public Expenditure, committee on Public Enterprises.
 (b) Appointment of Accounting Officer, Chief Accounting Officers and Revenue Accounting 
Officers and their powers and functions.
 (c)  internal audit.
 (d) Public Expenditure Planning and Management, Identification of Organizational Objectives 
and Functions, Identification of Government Policies, Goals, Targets and the Programmes, 
Planning and appraisal of development Projects and Programmes and Prioritization of them, 
formulation and finalization of annual Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure.
 (e) Variations of approval Estimates of Expenditure, application of Virement Procedure, 
Management of Public Sector cadres and Salaries, total cost Estimates and Revisions, 
Supplementary Estimates.
 (f) Losses and Waivers of Government Properties.
 (g) Miscellaneous accounting Matters.
 (h) delegating of functions for financial control.
 (i) custody of Public Money and Bank accounts Procedure.
 (j) Government Procurement Procedure, Procurement of Goods, Services and Works; 
composition, appointment, Powers and functions of Procurement Boards and technical 
Evaluation committees, Procurement Evaluation Procedure, Management of donor funded 
Projects. this question paper shall consist of essay type questions.
 14.1.3 Management and organization (Subject No. 03)
  one question paper based on following
  (a) the principles of management and organization
  (b) the application of these principles to problems and issues in the public sector
  (c) the modern tools and techniques of management
  this question pa per shall consist of essay type questions.
 14.2 Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade II of Class 1 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service (Schedule 14 of the service minute). The offices shall be in Grade II of Class 1 of Sri 
Lanka information and communication technology Service, which belongs to public Service, to sit for 
this examination.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
662
Subject Subject
No. Mark Duration Cut-off marks 
prescribed for a pass
Office Management 04 100 01 hour 40
E- Government concept and 
information technology 
Management
Question paper i-Multiple 
choice Questions 05 - i 40 01 hour 16
Question paper ii - Essay 
type 05 - ii 60 01 hour 24
 14.2.1 Office Management (Subject No. 04)
  Providing answers based on a given case in relation to management of human and physical resources 
of an office in public sector.
 14.2.2 E-government concept and information technology Management (Subject No. 05) 
  this question paper shall consist of 02 parts.
 (a) Question paper i- Mulitple choice Questions
  E- government concept will consist of evolution of the e-Government of system, it's stages, 
Basic elements of e-Government, e-Services and e-Government projects, state information 
and communication technology infrastructure, critical success factors of e-Government, 
e-Government Management interoperability and Serivice oriented architecture. 
 (b) Question paper ii - Essay type
  information technology Management will consist of life cycle of information technology 
Projects, Important of each stage and requirement of specific resources, Basic principals 
of information technology management, information technology Resources management, 
Risks of information technology projects and minimizing them.
 14.3 Efficiency Bar Examination For Officers in Grade I of Class 1 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service (Schedule 15 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade I of Class 1 of Sri 
Lanka information and communication technology Service, which belongs to public Service, to sit for 
this examination.
Subject Subject
No.
Marks Duration Cut-off marks 
prescribed for a pass
information and 
communication 
technology 
Project
Project Report 06-i 60 - 30
Presentation of 
the Project Report 06-ii 40
30 minutes for 
the presentation 
including Questions 
and answers session
20
 14.3.1 Project Report (Subject No. 06-i)
  Preparation of a project report of not less than fifteen thousand (15,000) words related to the subject 
filed of information and Communication Technology, which can be practically applied to enhance 
the productivity of offices of public sector in Sri Lanka.
 14.3.2 Presentation of Project Report (Subject No. 06 - ii)
  Presentation to the panel of examination and answering the questions raised by the panel of 
examiners.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2018
663
 the time table for each subject of each examination is as follows ;
Serial 
No.
Name of the examination Subject Subject 
No.
Date Time
01 Efficiency Bar 
Examinations for Officers 
in Grade iii of class 1 
of Sri Lanka information 
and communication 
technology Service.
Establishment code 
and administration
 01 2018.04.07 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 
p. m
financial Regulations 
and financial 
management  in 
public sector 
02 2018.04.07 12.30 p.m. - 3.30 
p.m.
Management and 
organization
03 2018.04.08 9.00 a.m. - 12.00 
p. m
02 Efficiency Bar 
Examinations for Officers 
in Grade ii of class 1 of 
Sri Lanka information 
and communication 
technology Service
Office Management 04 2018.04.08 9.00 a.m - 10.00 a. 
m
e- government 
concept and 
information 
technology 
management
Question 
paper i - 
McQ
05-i
2018.04.08
10.30 a. m. - 12.30 
p.m.Question 
paper ii - 
Essay type
05-ii
03 Efficiency Bar 
Examinations for officers 
in Grade i of class 1 of 
Sri Lanka information 
and communication 
technology Service
information and 
communication 
technology project
Project 
Report
06-i candidates will be informed the 
time schedule for the submission 
and the presentation of the project 
report after the closing date 
of application by the director 
General of Sri Lanka institute of 
development administration.
presentation 
of the 
Project 
Report
06-ii
15.0 any Matter not referred to herein will be decided by Secretary to the Ministry of public administration and 
Management.
16.0 In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this notification, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail.
 J. J. 
rathnaSiri,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Public administration and  Management.
Ministry of Public administration and Management,
independence Square,
colombo 07,
23rd of february 2018.
03-672  
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.