

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2290
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2288 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"350 – 2023 iema;eïn¾ ui 15 jeks isl=rdod – 2023'09'15
No. 2,350  –  fRiday ,  sEPtEmbER 15, 2023
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE"
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 06
th october, 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22nd september, 2023.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2023.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
2285 - b 082495 - 5,403 (09/2023)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2286
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a sri 
Lankan. a ,sri Lankan, is a citizen of sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a sinhalese educated in sinhala 
medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic socialist Republic of sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in sinhala medium or in tamil medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public service in a medium other than sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public service. such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public service  Provident fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  service and Public 
service respectively.
4:4 Regular force personnel in the army, Navy and air force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public service  which are 
pensionable under the minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public service, Provincial Public 
service, Public corporate sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2287
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall staff. if there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. should the supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. if you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2288
Posts - v acant 
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of births, Deaths and marriages 
Tamil medium
jAffNA    DISTRICT
aPPLicatioNs are called for the Post of Registrar of  births, deaths and marriages/additional marriages for the divisions 
set out in the schedule hereof;
01. applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant births, deaths and marriages/additional marriages division 
and entitled to reasonable properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired sufficient 
interest and influence amongst the residents of the area.
02. both male and female candidates can apply for this post.
03. applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the applications. 
(maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. applicants for the Post of Registrar of marriages should be married and should not be a widow/widower or divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Tamil language with 02 Credit passes in not more than 
two (02) sittings in GcE (o/L) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary language as per the 
language requirement of the populate within the division or else should have passed in any other similar examination.
N.B.-  In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE (O/L) or any other similar Examination, it shall be considered as one 
subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
 
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the post 
and easy access by all or majority of residents.
07. additional details such as V illage name list/Grama Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of births, deaths and 
Marriages/Additional Marriages, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be obtained 
from notices exhibited in public places within the division such as district secretariat, divisional secretariat or relevant 
land and district Registries, Grama Niladhari offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices depicted 
in the schedule hereunder.
08. Relevant application and the said "annex-01" inclusive of V illage Name list/Grama Niladhari divisions could be 
collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. Applications 
could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General's department.
09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 20
th  October, 2023 by registered post to the address given in 
the schedule.
  W. R. a. N. S. WijayaSiNghe, 
  Registrar General.
Registrar General's department, 
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
22nd august, 2023.
scHEdULE
District Divisional Secretariat
Division
Post and Division for which 
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Jaffna chankanai
Post of  births & deaths Registrar 
of chankanai division & Post of 
marriages Registrar of Valikamam 
West division (t amil medium)
district secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
secretariat, Jaffna.
09 - 269

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2289
R EGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of births, Deaths and marriages 
Tamil medium
kILINOChChI   DISTRICT
aPPLicatioNs are called for the Post of Registrar of  births, deaths and marriages/additional marriages for the divisions 
set out in the schedule hereof;
01. applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant births, deaths and marriages/additional marriages division 
and entitled to reasonable properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired sufficient 
interest and influence amongst the residents of the area.
02. both male and female candidates can apply for this post.
03. applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the applications. 
(maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. applicants for the Post of Registrar of marriages should be married and should not be a widow/widower or divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Tamil language with 02 Credit passes in not more than 
two (02) sittings in GcE (o/L) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary language as per the 
language requirement of the populate within the division or else should have passed in any other similar examination.
N.B.-  In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE (O/L) or any other similar Examination, it shall be considered as one 
subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
 
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the post 
and easy access by all or majority of residents.
07. additional details such as V illage name list/Grama Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of births, deaths and 
Marriages/Additional Marriages, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be obtained 
from notices exhibited in public places within the division such as district secretariat, divisional secretariat or relevant 
land and district Registries, Grama Niladhari offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices depicted 
in the schedule hereunder.
08. Relevant application and the said "annex-01" inclusive of V illage Name list/Grama Niladhari divisions could be 
collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. Applications 
could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General's department.
09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 20
th  October, 2023 by registered post to the address given in 
the schedule.
  W. R. a. N. S. WijayaSiNghe, 
  Registrar General.
Registrar General's department, 
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
22nd august, 2023.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2290
scHEdULE
District Divisional Secretariat
Division
Post and Division for which 
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Kilinochchi Kandawalai
Post of  births & deaths Registrar 
of Parandhan division & Post of 
marriages Registrar of Karachchi 
division (t amil medium)
district secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
secretariat, Kilinochchi.
09 - 270
––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Amendment
ministry of Public Administration, home Affairs, Provincial Councils and Local Government 
Revision of Government Notification
Public Service Commission
filling the Vacancies in Grade i of sri Lanka architects' service, under section 11.2 of sri Lanka architects' service 
minute No: 1877/28 dated 28.08.2014
tHE following revision shall be included in the notification published under the above title in the Gazette of the democratic 
socialist Republic of sri Lanka No: 2349 dated 08.09.2023 and the other matters and conditions indicated therein shall 
remain unchanged.
04.  marking scheme:
N. B. - the point under No: i should be removed.
it is not necessary for the applicants, who have already applied, to submit the applications again due to this revision.
  on the order of Public service commission,
K. D. N. RaNjith aSoKa,
secretary.
ministry of Public administration, Home affairs, Provincial 
councils and Local Government.
13th of september, 2023.
09-335
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of hEALTh 
Recruitment for Student Nursing Training – year 2023
aPPLicatioNs are called from eligible sri Lankan citizens to recruit for the student Nurse training, of the ministry of 
Health from 15.09.2023 to 18.10.2023. Applications could be submitted only through the official web site of the Ministry 
of Health ( www.health.gov.lk)
Important :
 1.1.  Each applicant can submit only one application. if an applicant has submitted more than one application, all 
applications will be rejected. An applicant who has passed GCE A/L in both 2019 and 2020 should submit only 
one application. the applicant should submit only one application based on the preferred year of examination. 
applicant should not submit separate applications for the separate years. if an applicant has submitted two 
applications for the two years all applications will be rejected.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2291
1.2.     In the past few years, considering recruitment, it was observed that many other qualified students did not get 
even one such opportunity due to the registration of several courses by one student under the free education 
privileges of the government. apart from this, the government’s money is being wasted due to this situation, and 
the planned goals of the relevant institutions cannot be achieved due to the lack of the expected number of trained 
professionals at the end of course. therefore, necessary provisions to mitigate this situation and give every 
applicant at least one opportunity have been published in paragraph 5 of this Gazette. accordingly, as detailed in 
sub-paragraphs number 5.1 to 5.5, a person who is not eligible, should not apply for this course. However, if a 
person with such disqualification applies for this course and is discovered later, action will be taken against them 
as per sub-paragraph 6.3 of the Gazette notification.   
1.3.   In past recruitments, it was observed that false information (false examination years, subjects, grades obtained 
etc.) was submitted in the applications. It has also been observed some applicants provide certificates with 
false information to the interview board. it is a serious offense. therefore, no applicant should provide false 
information in the submitted e-application. if an applicant submits such false information the application will be 
rejected, applicants name will be submitted to Department of Criminal Investigation for necessary legal actions. 
further their names will be included in the blacklisted names for recruiting to government service.
1.4.    Each applicant should read and understand this Gazette and the information provided in the e- application. if the 
applicant is eligible to apply, ensure the receipt obtained by paying Rs.1000/- to any bank of ceylon branch (as 
per paragraph 7.2) and the documents mentioned in 9.4, 9.5 and 9.6 sections are available with you before you 
apply and submit the application.
 02.  Educational qualifications and other specific qualifications relevant to the post:
Table – 01
G.C.E.(O/L)
qualifications
G.C.E.(A/L)
qualifications
Other specific
qualifications
relevant for the training course
Should have passed 06 subjects 
with credit passes for sinhala/ 
tamil Language, mathematics, 
science and English in not 
more than two sittings at the 
G.c.E.(o/L) examination.
Should have passed any 03 subjects from 
biology, chemistry, agriculture, Physics and 
mathematics which belong to bio science 
subject stream in one sitting at the G.C.E. 
(a/L) Examination either in 2019 (old 
syllabus) or in 2019 (New syllabus) or in 2020 
(old syllabus) or in 2020 (New syllabus). 
(common General test and General English 
is not considered as subjects)
or
Should have passed any 03 subjects from 
combined mathematics, chemistry, Physics 
and advanced mathematics which belong 
to Physical Science subject stream in one 
sitting at the G.c.E. (a/L) Examination either 
in 2019 (old syllabus) or in 2019 (New 
syllabus) or 2020 (old syllabus) or in 2020 
(New syllabus). (common General test and 
General English is not considered as subjects)
• this fulltime training is 
of 3 years duration and 
will be conducted in 
English medium.
• should be not less than 
18 years and not more 
than 28 years of age at 
18.10.2023.
• should not be less than 
4’10’’ (147.3 cm) in 
height.
• should be unmarried.
• both males and females 
can apply.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2292
3.  method of recruitment for training:
 3.1.  Recruitments for the student Nurses’ Training is done from the applicants who have fulfilled the qualifications 
in terms of the sri Lanka Nursing service minute published in the Extra ordinary Gazette No. 1837/8 dated 
19.11.2013 of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka and the amendments made there from time to time. 
(Male applicants will be recruited based on the service exigency of the Institutions under the Ministry subject to 
the provisions of the Nursing service minute)
 3.2.  the total number to be recruited from the island will be divided in proportion to the population in each district 
and then the number recruited from each district will be determined.
 3.3.  thereafter the number to be recruited from each district will be divided in proportion to the number of applicants 
who apply from the respective district in 2019 (old syllabus) or in 2019 (New syllabus) or 2020 (old syllabus) 
or in 2020 (New Syllabus). and have satisfied the minimum educational qualifications, and then number of 
recruits in each year from the respective districts will be determined.
 3.4.  thereafter, the number of recruits from each examination [2019 (old syllabus) or 2019 (New syllabus) or 2020 
(old syllabus) or in 2020 (New syllabus).] will be divided in proportion to the number of applicants who apply 
and satisfied the minimum educational qualifications from the Bio Science and Physical Science subject streams 
in the respective year and then the number of recruits from the respective district in each year from each subject 
stream will be determined.
 3.5.  The number of recruits from each subject stream in each examination [2019 (Old Syllabus) or 2019  
(New syllabus) or 2020 (old syllabus) or in 2020 (New syllabus)] will be determined as such and 5% out of the 
total number will be male applicants and 95% will be for female applicants. Recruitments will be made from the 
applicants who have obtained the highest Z score from each subject stream in the respective district in each year.
4.  Eligibility:
    Each applicant,
 4.1.  should be a sri Lankan citizen.
 4.2.  Applicant should be excellent in character and be physically and mentally fit.
 4.3.  y ou should have been a permanent resident of the district for three consecutive years immediately prior to the 
closing date of applications i.e., 18.10.2023. The Certificate of residence issued by the Grama Niladhari should 
be submitted. Where any applicant is unable to prove the residence during the preceding 3 years, they will not be 
eligible to be recruited from the current (residence) district. based on the past districts of residence, the district 
in which he/she has lived longest duration of time will be considered for recruitment by the interview board. the 
applicant should provide necessary documents to prove the residence to the interview board.
Note :  Where any candidate is unable to prove the residence during the preceding 3 years due to employment of his/her 
father or mother in a transferrable service of the Government or of Provincial Public service or as a state corporation 
or due to any other unavoidable reason, if he/she provides acceptable reasons, the final decision will be taken by the 
secretary of ministry of Health.
5.  Who are not eligible to apply /get selected for the course:
 5.1.  students who are registered or currently following any fulltime/internal course conducted by a state university 
or a state university college recognized by the University Grants commission under the national free educati on 
policy.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2293
 5.2.  students who are registered or currently following any fulltime course conducted by a National college of 
Education of sri Lanka.
 5.3.  students who are registered or currently following any fulltime course conducted by the ministry of Health or 
any other government institute. 
 5.4.  If you have registered for a full-time course conducted by an institute which falls under 5.1, 5.2 or 5.3 above; 
even though, you cancelled your registration after this Gazette  is published, you are not eligible to apply or to get 
selected for the training.
 5.5.  a  student who has registered the marriage or a divorcee.
6.  Other Information:
 6.1.  if you have completed a degree in any University, the effective date should be a date which is earlier than the date 
of application  i.e., 15.09.2023 to the course. 
 6.2.  it should be strictly noted that no section contained in this Gazette  notification implies that you will be selected 
to the course applied for even the above conditions have been fulfilled. It should also be noted even if you have 
satisfied the above conditions, you are not eligible for above course, if you have not obtained a sufficient Z score 
to be eligible or if you have not fulfilled any other condition.
 6.3. subsequent to the recruitment for the training if it is revealed that you are not eligible for the training as you have 
got registered/ or was following a fulltime programme as mentioned in 5.1, 5.2 or 5.3 above or if you are not 
eligible under 5.4 or 5.5 conditions you will be withdrawn from the training /dismissed from the post and all the 
expenses incurred by the government until then will be recovered from you. further, their names will be included 
in the blacklisted names for recruiting to government service.
 6.4.  Educational qualifications and all other qualifications should be fulfilled in all respects by the closing date of 
applications i.e., 18.10.2023.
7. The method of application :
 7.1.  Candidates shall apply for the above training course via the official website of the Ministry of Health  
(www.health.gov.lk). They are required to fill and submit the online application on the website. Instructions for 
filling the application form are available on the online application form. (The application form should be filled 
in English only.)
 7.2.  applicants should pay an amount of Rs.1000/- to the bank of ceylon to the credit of the account of “the 
secretary of the ministry of Health, collection of Examination fee” thaprobane branch of bank of ceylon  
No. 7041318. this amount can be paid through any branch of bank of ceylon. this fee will not be refunded 
under any circumstance. y ou should have documentary evidence (receipt) to prove that you have deposited the 
money. this receipt must be forwarded at the interview. it is not allowed to transfer this examination fee to any 
other examination.
 7.3.  y ou do not need to send copies of the uploaded application to the ministry by post. However, keep the code with 
the 5 digits received after uploading the application safely, for obtaining printed copies later. if you are called 
for the interview, you should bring a duly signed and signature attested copy of the application by an officer as 
mentioned in 8.1.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2294
Note :  If you have fulfilled the conditions and eligible to apply, any questions on completing the application, instructions 
could be obtained by contacting the Human Resources management and coordinating Unit of the ministry of 
Health during working days of the week from 9.00 a.m. to 4.00 p.m. via telephone number 0112 340 007, can also 
be contacted at the email address hrcodmoh@gmail.com . (Here it is always necessary to mention your national 
identity card number and a telephone number where you can be contacted)
       All necessary information has been published in the gazette  and web site of the ministry of health. Therefore, 
please do not call for any other reason.
8.   The attestation of the applicant's signature:
 8.1.  The signature of the applicant should be attested by an officer in Sri Lanka Administrative Service / an officer 
in Sri Lanka Educational Administrative Service / an officer in Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service / a Government 
Principal / a Justice of the Peace / An attorney of Law or an officer who hold a permanent and pensionable post 
and draws an annual salary not less than Rs. 512, 148.00. 
 8.2.  the applications that are not complying with the above terms of the gazette or incomplete applications will be 
rejected without any notice.
9.  If you are called for the interview, you shall submit the following documents:
 9.1.  Out of the applicants those who have satisfied the minimum educational qualifications, according to the 
successfully uploaded online application, only a selected number of applicants will be called for the interview 
based on a priority list prepared according to the Z score. a general interview will be held by a board of interview 
appointed by the Secretary of the Ministry of Health. The interview board will check the qualifications and 
physical fitness required for the post by the Service Minute and this gazette notification. Applicants shall submit 
the Originals  of the following documents at the interview. 
          if due to unavoidable reasons (acceptable to the interview board) any applicant is unable to submit any 
certificate/document on that day, the representative of this ministry shall approach the Deputy Director General 
(admin) ii within 7 days from the date of the interview as per the instructions of the interview board. all 
applicants who fail to do so will be considered ineligible for selection.
 9.2.  Printed copy of the uploaded application (Duly attested by an officer as mentioned in Sub-paragraph 8.1.)
 9.3.  Birth Certificate.
 9.4.  the G.c.E. (a/L) result sheet with the Z score (issued by the Examinations department)
 9.5.  G.c.E (o/L) result sheet (issued by the Examinations department).
 9.6.  National identity card issued by department for Registration of Persons or valid passport or valid sri Lankan 
driving license. 
 9.7. Receipt obtained for the payment of Rs.1000.00 to the bank.
 9.8. Certificate of proving residence issued by the Grama Niladhari.
 9.9.  School leaving certificate. (Education B-59)

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2295
 9.10.  A formal affidavit signed over a stamp at the value of Rs 50/- in the presence of a   Justice of the Peace to confirm 
that the applicant is not married or divorced as per sub-paragraph 5.5.
 9.11.  A solemn declaration of the candidate. (Self-declared certificate to prove that one is free of disqualifications as 
per sub-paragraphs 5.1 to 5.4 of paragraph 5) 
Note :
 (a)  In addition to the originals of the documents mentioned from 9.2 to 9.11 above true copies of the originals certified 
by the applicant himself/herself should be brought to the interview.
 (b)  secretary of the ministry of Health shall decide the number of applicants to be called for the interview and number 
to be selected for training based on the capacity of the training schools and service requirements.
 (c)  any section herein does not mean that those who are called for the interview are selected and it should not be 
understood so.
 (d)  following the interview, information of the selected candidates will be published on the website http://www.health.
gov.lk and the candidates are not informed personally.
 (e)  Appeals will not be considered for any reason by the applicants who have fulfilled   the qualifications in terms of this 
Gazette, but failed to attend the interview/s. further appeals will not be considered by the applicants who have not 
got registered to the course following selection on the due date.
10.  Scheme of training:
 10.1.  applicants selected from the interview will be admitted to training schools to follow the training course. Period 
of the course and the medium in which the course should be followed mentioned in table 01.
 10.2.  Trainees who are admitted to the training schools will be subject to the rules and regulations which are effective 
in the training schools and the orders imposed by the ministry of Health from time to time.
 10.3.  t raining of those who fail the prescribed examinations, whose work and conduct are not satisfactory of who fail to 
adhere to relevant conditions of examination and conditions of leave of the training school or whose educational 
and other qualifications are found to be false, may be terminated at any time without any compensation.
 10.4.  a  monthly allowance will be paid to the trainees during the training in terms of the provisions of section V of 
Public administration circular 03/2016.
 10.5.  at the time the applicant is admitted to the training school, he/she should enter into an agreement and surety bond 
with the director General of Health services that he/she will complete the training successfully, not abandon the 
training and service in the relevant post in the public service /provincial public service for a minimum period of 
10 years if appointment is granted after completing the said training. if he/she resigns from the training, abandon 
the training, or his/her training is terminated as per the terms in 10.3 above or fails to service in the relevant 
post for a period of 10 years after appointment, he/she should refund the ministry of Health the allowance paid 
to, expenses incurred by the Government and the amount of the agreement. if not, legal action will be taken to 
recover the said amount as per the agreement.
 10.6.  applicants who apply for nursing training should be unmarried as at the closing date of applications and should 
remain unmarried during the period of training.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2296
11. T erms of Employment :
 11.1.  Government is not bound to grant permanent appointments at the end of the training. However, the candidates
will be considered for appointing to a post in class iii of the post concerned on the basis of the merit obtained at 
the final examination of the training to fill the vacancies remaining after making the transfers of senior officers, 
according to the priority list of vacancies prepared based on the vacancies exist as at the date of completion of 
the training. 
further selected applicants should serve in any part of the sri Lanka, based on existing vacancies.
 11.2. i f permanent appointment is granted at the end of the training period, salaries will be paid in terms of the 
provisions of the Public administration circular No. 03/2016
11.3. Applicants should carefully and accurately fill the particulars of education and other qualifications in the 
application. If the above certificates are proved to be false after recruitment to the training or after appointment, 
action will be taken to refer the case to the 
criminal investigation department for taking legal action / to cancel 
the appointment, to dismiss him/her from the training / post, and to enter his / her name into the black list of 
those who are not permitted to be reemployed in the Public 
service after taking disciplinary action against him / 
her. action will be taken to recover the allowance paid to him / her during the training period, expenses incurred 
by the Government, and the amount of the agreement and surety bond.
11.4.  Selected applicants should submit themselves for a medical examination during the first month of the training 
to certify that the applicant is physically and mentally fit to follow the course and to serve in any part of the 
Island and if an applicant is found to be unfit from the medical examination he / she will be disqualified from the 
training.
11.5.
 All persons selected as above will be subjected to provisions of the Establishment Code of Democratic Socialist 
Republic of sri Lanka rules, regulations and orders imposed by the Public service commission regarding 
the Public service, provisions of the service minutes, financial Regulations, circulars and instructions of the 
Government and orders imposed and amendments made thereto from time to time.
11.6.  t his ministry is not bound to provide hostel facilities in the training schools for the applicants recruited for 
the training. if such facilities provided, rent assessed for a housing room, water and electricity charges will be 
charged.
11.7.  y ou have no right to engage in trade union activities during the period of training. if it is found to have done so 
you will be removed from training or take other appropriate action.
11.8.  i f any problem arises regarding recruitment to the training or any matter covered or not covered by this Gazette 
notification, the decision of the Secretary of Health, will be the final. In case of any inconsistency between the 
sinhala, tamil and English text, the text in sinhala will prevail. 
S. jaNaKa SRi ChaNDRaguptha,
secretary,
 ministry of Health.
31st august, 2023.
“ suwasiripaya”,
385, Rev baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha,
colombo - 10.
09 - 220

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2297
mINISTR y O f Pub LIC  A D m INISTRATION , hO m E  Aff AIRS , PRO v INCIAL  C O u NCILS  AND  
L OCAL  G O v ERN m ENT
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class I of the Government Translators’ Service – 2016 (2023)
aN Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class I of the Translators’ Service, as provided for in paragraph 08 of 
the translators’  service minute published in the Government Gazette No. 829/7 dated 26.07.1994, shall be held in 
colombo by the commissioner General of Examinations in the month of j anuary, 2024 and candidates may appear for 
the Examination either in sinhala, tamil or English media. the language medium of examination applied for shall not be 
allowed to change subsequently. Only the officers, who belong to Combined Services of Public Service; shall apply for 
the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination as per this notification. The application has been published in the website of  the 
department of Examinations, sri Lanka www.doenets.lk  in online. application (E. b. Exams) under our services and the 
applications can only be submited online. Officers should select the interface in accordance with their sitting. After the 
application is submitted online, it should be downloaded and the parts other details, certification of the applicant, attestation 
of the signature and certification of the Head of the Department should be filled and sent through registered post to reach 
commissioner General of Examinations,  institutional Examinations organization division, department of Examinations, 
P. O. Box 1503, Colombo on or before the closing date of applications. The words “Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers 
in 
class i of Government translators’  service – 2016(2023)” shall be clearly indicated on the top left-hand corner of the 
envelop. the closing date of application is 16th of October, 2023.
Note : the provisions relevant to the applicants of the translators’  service of the Provincial Public service and the provisions 
for the applicants of other relevant institutions shall be issued concurrently to this Gazette Notification by the relevant 
Provincial Public 
service commissions and the relevant institutions respectively.
a code number should be indicated in mentioning relevant service or institution in the heading of the application for the 
purpose of identifying separately the officers who apply for this examination for the Public Service of each Provincial 
council and other institutions. accordingly, the Code Number of the Officers belonging to the Combined Service is 10.
02.  it is compulsory to send the printed copy of the application by post and no complaint that an application has been lost
or delayed  in post shall be considered. the applicants shall bear losses, which may occur due to their delay in sending
applications until the closing date. ( it is advisable to keep a copy of the downloaded application).
03. s yllabus and scheme of Examination :
1st Subject – Paper 01
translation of
(i) A passage of general interest; and
(ii) Extracts from
(a) an official document or report; and
(b) a newspaper article or report
in one of the following ways selected, in accordance with the candidate’s medium of translation.
(i)  f rom sinhala to tamil
(ii)  f rom sinhala to English
(iii)  f rom tamil to English
duration – 03 Hours
marks  - 100

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2298
2nd Subject – Paper  02
translation of
 (i) A passage of general interest; and
 (ii) Extracts from
 (a) an official document or report; and
 (b) a newspaper article or report
in one of the following ways selected, in accordance with the candidate’s medium of translation.
 (i) from tamil to sinhala
 (ii) from English to sinhala
 (iii) from English to tamil
duration – 03 Hours
marks - 100
• candidates should obtain forty percent (40%) or above of the total marks for each paper to pass the examination.
04.  candidates’ handwriting shall be taken into consideration.
05.  (i) applications – online applications shall be perfected in English medium only. once both the soft copy 
submitted online and the printout sent through registered post are received by the department of Examinations, 
the soft copy and the printout are verified. It shall be informed through SMS to the mobile number used to 
access the system or through e-mail as to whether the department accepts/does not accept the same as a 
valid application. download the common instructions sheet prepared for applying for the examination before 
perfecting the online application. strictly follow these instructions when perfecting the application. any 
change made in the application once a printout is taken shall not be considered as a valid change. incomplete 
applications shall be rejected without notice.
 (ii) Officers appearing for the examination for the first time need not pay examination fees. However, for 
subsequent sittings, Rs. 250 for one subject should be paid. Payment of examination fees should be made 
strictly using the following methods provided by the online system.
 i. through any bank credit card
 ii. through any bank debit card
 iii. through bank of ceylon online banking method
 iv. through bank of ceylon slip Payment
 v. Postal Department Payment at any Post Office.
Note.- the instructions on payment through the above methods are published under the technical instructions 
related to the examination in the website.
the receipt of payment shall be acknowledged through sms or e-mail. the total examination fee should be 
paid and applications of the candidates, who have made payments more or less than the prescribed examination 
fee, shall be rejected. Department of Examinations shall not bear responsibility on the errors that occur when 
paying the examination fees through the above methods. Under no circumstances the examination fee shall 
be refunded/allowed to be transferred in favour of another.
06. admission to the Examination .-
 (i) the commissioner General of Examinations shall issue admission cards to the applicants, who have paid the 
prescribed examination fees and sent the duly completed applications along with the relevant receipt on or before 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2299
the closing date of applications mentioned in the examination notice, on the presumption that only those who 
have the qualifications mentioned in the examination notice have applied. A notification shall be published by 
department of Examinations, sri Lanka in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are issued to candidates. if 
the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such an advertisement steps shall be taken to notify 
the institutional Examinations organization division branch of the department of Examinations in the manner 
specified in the advertisement.
 (ii) the name of the examination, full name of the applicant, National identity card Number and address should be 
mentioned accurately when making an inquiry in the said manner. it would be more effective to send a letter of 
request to the fax number mentioned in the notification furnishing a fax number to which a copy of the admission 
card can be obtained without delay in case of applicants outside colombo. it would be advisable to keep the 
following in hand at the time of calling the department of Examinations: i.e. a copy of the application form and 
the receipt obtained by paying the examination fee and the receipt of registration kept at your possession.
 (iii) Each candidate shall be issued a time table along with the admission card.
 (iv) candidates are bound by the rules and regulations prescribed by the commissioner General of Examinations for 
conducting the examination. they shall be liable to any punishment imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations for the breach of these rules.
 (v) Rules prescribed for candidates are printed at the beginning of this Gazette.
 Note - the issuance of an admission card to sit for the examination should not be considered as an acceptance of 
requisite qualifications of a candidate to sit for the examination.
07. Heads of departments shall grant duty leave for candidates to whom admission cards have been issued by the 
commissioner General of Examinations, to present themselves at the examination. traveling expenses are not payable.
08. identity of candidates : candidates shall be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction 
of the supervisor for each subject they offer.
 for this purpose, any of the following documents shall be accepted.
 (i) National identity card,
 (ii) Valid Passport
 (iii) Valid sri Lankan driving License.
 candidates should enter the examination hall without covering face and ears enabling to verify the identity. those 
who refuse to verify their identity as such shall not be permitted to enter the examination hall. further, candidates 
should remain in the examination hall from the moment of entering and leaving the examination hall without covering 
the face and ears enabling the examiners to identify them easily. In case an objection is made, the candidate may be 
allowed to sit for the examination. However, results would not be released for such candidates as the identity was not 
confirmed.
09. Release of the results - commissioner General of Examinations will release the results of the examination to the 
director General of combined services and the results will be published on the website of ministry  of Public service. 
Provincial councils and Local Government.
10. the decision of the director General of combined service s shall be final in respect of any matter, which has not been 
provided for in this notification.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2300
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this Examination Notification, the 
sinhala text shall prevail.
 S. a loKabaNDaRa ,
 director General of combined services.
ministry of Public administration, Home affairs, 
Provincial councils and Local Government, 
independence square,
colombo 07.
29th of august, 2023.
09-200
––––––––––––––––––––––––––
ministry of justice, Prison Affairs and Constitutional Reforms
Department of Prisons
open competitive Examination for the Recruitment to the Post of Prison Guard - 2023
aPPLicatioNs are invited from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka to be recuited to the posts of Prison Guard (Female/
male) fallen vacant at the department of Prisons sri Lanka.
01. Recruitment through this examination is to be made for the posts of the Prison Guard at the department 
of Prisons, under prison Police and other service category regulatory.
02. Written Examination:- this examination consists of 02 question papers as -
i. General intelligence
ii. General Knowledge
Important - Applicants who pass the written examination will have to appear for the physical fitness test and eligibility 
evaluation interview as specified in sub-sections (1), (2) and (3) of clause 13 of this notice of advertisement. Therefore, 
only the candidates who have fulfilled the requirements as mentioned in the said clause are expected to apply.
02. date of Examination and conducting of the examination :-
this examination will be held in December, 2023 in main towns throughout the island as indicated in the schedule 
- i of this notice. the town and its number in respect of which the candidate wishes to sit the examination among 
the towns set out in the said schedule should be clearly indicated. No candidate will be permitted to change later the 
town originally indicated in the application. However, in case of there will not be sufficient number of candidates 
applied for a particular town and pursuant to which an examination centre will not be established therein, such 
number of candidates will be directed to an examination centre to be established in a town in which the candidate 
mentioned in the application as the second preference or an examination centre to be established in any other 
nearby town. Further, in case of there will not be sufficient number of candidates to meet the establishment of 
examination centers in all or majority of such towns proposed in the schedule - I of this notice, the Commissioner 
General of Examinations may make necessary arrangements to conduct the examination only in Colombo.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2301
schedule - 1
Towns and Numbers
colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Jaffna 04
baticaloa 05
Kurunegala 06
anuradhapura 07
badulla 08
Rathnapura 09
03. The total number of Vacancies to be filled amount to 347. [i.e. Prison Guard (Male) 300, Prison Guard (Female) 
47. When the last vacancy or a few of vacancies as the case may be are to be filled, there may be instance 
where the number of candidates have obtained equal marks and such number or numbers exceeds the number 
of vacancies available to be filled, such last vacancy or a few of vacancies as the case may be will have to 
be filled based on the decision to be taken by the order of Public Service Commission in compliance with 
section 80 of its Procedural Rules. the date on which the appointments will take effect will be decided by the 
commissioner General of Prisons.
04. conditions of Employment:-
 4.1 A candidate will be appointed to the post of Prison Guard subject to the General conditions governing 
the appointments in the Public service, Provisions laid down in the Establishments code and financial 
Regulations and the Procedural Rules of the Public service commission published in the Gazette 
extraOrdinary No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009.
 4.2 This post is permanent. It is pensionable. You shall be subject to the policy decision to be taken by 
the Government in future regarding the pension scheme entitled to you. further, y ou are liable to 
contribute to the Widows' and orphans' Pension scheme/Widowers' and orphans' Pension scheme. 
y ou are required to pay contribution in such rate as may be determined from time to time by the 
Government.
 4.3 This appointment subject to a probationary period of three years. The First efficiency Bar Examination 
should have to be passed within 03 years from the date of appointment to the post.
 4.4 in terms of the Public administration circular No. 01/2014 and circulars issued incidental thereto, 
prescribed official language proficiency should have to be reached.
 4.5 the commissioner General of Prisons reserves the power to cancel any appointment of a selected 
appointee in such instances Where failure by any such appointee to assume duties in his/her post 
on the scheduled date and/or denial by any such appointee to  assume duties in his/her post at the 
workstation which such appointee will be directed in the letter of appointment to assume duties. the 
selected appointees to the post of Prison Guard should agree to engage in the duties during the initial 
05 years from the date of their appointment, accommodating in the bachelor's quarters of the prisons 
even far away from the area of their permanent residence.
05. Monthly Salary Scale:-
in terms of Public administration circular No. 03/2016, salary segment Rs. 1 - 2016. (step 1) is applicable to this post.
accordingly, this post carries the salary scale as follows:-
Rs. 29,540/- 7x300 - 27x370 - 41630/- (per month)
(in terms of provisions of the Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016, in that schedule ii thereof, 
salaries will be paid based on the initial salary step corresponding to Rs. 29,540/-)

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2302
06. Terms of engagement:-
(a) Every candidate must furnish a clear proof to the effect that he/she
(i) should be a citizen of sri Lanka.
(ii) should be physically and mentally sound and should have a exemplary character, the latter of 
which should be attested by a police clearance report.
(iii) conviction by any court of law for any offence committed pertaining to immoral character is a total 
disqualification for the appointment to the above post.
(iv) should have minimum height of 5 feet 4 inches (male)  
(v) should have minimum height of 5 feet 2 inches (female)
(vi) Should have a chest measurement of 32 inches deflated (This does not apply in case of female 
candidates)
(vii) should be unmarried. (divorcees and widowers are treated be married persons.)
(b) Educational Qualifications :-
 Should have passed the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at least 06 subjects in not more than two sittings including 
Sinhala/Tamil/English and Mathematics with two (02) credit passes for any subjects.
(c) Age:-
• should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years of age .(accordingly, any candidate whose date of birth 
falls on or before 16.10.2005 and on or after 16.10.1993 are only eligible to apply (maximum age limit shall not apply 
for those who are already serving in the Public or Provincial Public  service.)
(d) Restrictions on eligibilities:-
Every candidate should fulfill all qualifications required to apply for this examination on or before the closing date 
of applications in all respects.
07. examination Fee:-
the examination fee is Rs. 600/- which may be paid by the applicant in his/her own name in cash at any Post 
Office/Sub - Post Office or District/Divisional Secretariat throughout the island to the credited of the Public 
Revenue under the Revenue Head 20 - 03 -02 - 13 in favor of the commissioner General of Examinations 
before the closing date of applications and the receipt issued in proof of the payment should be affixed in the 
relevant cage of the application form so that only one edge thereof is firmly pasted on the space provided. 
Under no circumstances will the examination fee refunded to you or transferred to other examination. it is 
advisable if a photo copy of the receipt should be kept preserved.
08. Application Procedure:-
 8.1 the application should be in conformity with the specimen application appended at the end of this 
notification and thus it should be prepared and completed by the candidate in his/her own legible hand 
writing in 8.27"x11.69" sheet of paper (a4) in  size using both sides. the application may be typed either 
using computer or type writer. Item No. 01 -05 should appear on the first page while item No. 06 - 11 
on the second page and the remaining items on the third page. applications which are in not conformity 
with the specimen application form and are incomplete will be rejected without serving a notice. (It is 
advisable if a photo copy of the application is retained in your safe custody) further, the candidate should 
check as to whether the completed application form is in accordance with the specimen application 
appended at the end of this notice. deviation from such requirement may render the application to be 
rejected.
 8.2 applications should be prepared and completed in such medium of language in which the candidate 
intends sitting the examination.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2303
 8.3 completed applications should be sent under registered cover to reach the "commissioner General of 
Examinations, Establishment Exams organizations branch, department of Examinations, sri Lanka, 
P.o. box 1503, colombo" on or before 16.10.2023. the words "open competitive Examination for the 
Recruitment to the Posts of Prison Guards (2023)" should clearly be written on the top left hand corner 
of the envelope enclosing the application. When preparing the application, the name of the examination 
indicated in the caption of the application prepared and completed in sinhala Language should also be 
written in English Language while the name of the examination indicated in the caption of the application 
prepared and completed in tamil Language should also be written in English Language.
 8.4 the commissioner General of Examination will issue admission cards to all those candidates who have 
submitted their applications in accordance with the specimen form on or before the closing dated to sit 
for the competitive examination upon payment of the prescribed examination fee provided however on 
the presumption that all those candidates have possessed the basic qualifications specified in Gazette 
Notification. Receipt of an admission card to sit the competitive examination shall not be deemed as 
being the candidate has fulfilled the qualifications for this post. In the event of  the qualifications required 
to this post in accordance with this notice are found to be false at the time of interview, candidature of 
such candidate is liable to be cancelled.
 8.5 the signature of the candidate placed in the application should be attested by a Principal of a Government 
school, Justice of the Peace, commissioner of oaths, attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, commissioned 
Officer in the Armed Forces, an officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service or a Staff Officer 
holding a permanent post in Government and in case of the signature of the candidate from the Public/
Provincial Public Service, the Head of the Institution to which such candidate attached. Officers 
already serving in the Public service should submit their applications to the commissioner General 
of Examinations through respective Heads of department before the closing dated of applications. in 
such case, the respective Head of the Department should certify indicating that such an officer could be 
released from the current position, if he/she will be selected to this post.
 8.6 an application in respect of which the examination fee has not been paid before the due date and any 
such application which is incomplete will be rejected without serving any notice for rejection. Any risk 
resulting from not duly completing any application in all respect shall be borne by the relevant candidate 
himself. any complaints that an application gets lost or delayed in the post will not be accepted under any 
circumstances.
 8.7 Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. immediately upon the admission cards will be issed 
to the candidates, a notice into that respect will be published in the national press and the official website 
of the department of Examinations of sri Lanka. any candidate who will be not in receipt of admission 
card even 2 or 3 days will elapse from the date of such publication of the notice, should inquire forthwith 
to the department of Examinations informing non receipt as per directions given in the notice. such 
inquiry should contain your full name, address, National identity card Number and the name of the 
Examination applied. in case of the candidate is not resident in colombo, such inquiry incorporating 
above particulars in writing may be sent by fax given in the notice to the department of Examinations 
further indicating a return fax number so that respective candidate's admission card may directly be sent 
to it. as a matter of supporting of such candidate's inquiry in such instance, it will be very useful for such 
candidate to retain photocopies of the application, receipt in proof of payment of examination fee and 
registered postal article receipt.
09. Admission to the examination:
(a) Every candidate should sit the examination only in the examination hall allotted to such candidate. 
Every candidate should get his/her signature which appears in the admission card duly attested and 
surrender same to the Head of the Examination Hall on the date on which he/she sits the examination. 
under no circumstance should any candidate be permitted to sit the examination without submitting 
a duly attested admission card. Rules and regulations bound to be abided by every candidate at the 
Examination Hall are published in the beginning of this Gazette Notification. Every candidate is liable 
to be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations from 
the commencement of examination to the issuance of results. any breach by any candidate of such 

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2304
rules and regulations may render such candidate to be subject to any punishment to be imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
10. Identity of Candidates :-
Every candidate is required to establish his/her identity to the satisfaction of Head of the Examination Hall 
in every subject. For the establishment of the identity, any one of the following documents is required to be 
produced to the Head of the Examination Hall.
(i) National Identity Card ;
(ii) Valid Passport ;
(iii) Valid Driving License ;
further, candidates should enter the examination hall without covering their face and ears so that their identity 
can be verified. Applicants who refuse to prove their identity will not be admitted to the examination hall. 
further, from the moment of entering the Examination hall until the end of the examination and leaving it. the 
candidate must remain uncovered so that the examination authorities can identify him.
11. Penalty for furnishing false information:-
In filling the application, utmost care should be exercised to incorporate accurate information. If any candidate 
is found to be disqualified in terms of the rules and regulations of this examination his candidature may be 
cancelled at any time even before the examination or at the time where the examination is in progress or after 
the conclusion of the examination. if it is found that a candidate has furnished any information with knowledge 
that they are false or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact, his/her appointment is liable to be 
cancelled.
12. method of Examination and medium of Language:-
(a) this examination will be held in sinhala, tamil and English medium of languages.
(b) No candidate will be permitted to change the medium of language at a later stage.
13. scheme of Recruitment:-
 Written Examination:-
The written examination will consist of 02 question papers designing to test the knowledge of the subjects 
mentioned in the paragraph 02 of this notice. To pass the examination, at least 40% marks of for each subject 
required to be obtained. candidates are required to answer all question papers.
Subject :- 1. General Intelligence
 2. General knowledge
•	 the syllabus of the written Examination:-
(a) General intelligence - duration allowed is 01 hour. full marks to be awarded is 100%. this paper is 
designed to include 50 multiple choice questions to assess the candidate's ability in logical thinking, 
analytical reasoning and ability in determining.
(b) General knowledge - duration allowed is 02 hours. full marks awarded is 100%. this paper consisting 
of 50 multiple choice questions is a common general paper designed to include questions to assess 
the candidate's ability on current important matters relating to the political, cultural and economic 
environment of sri Lanka.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2305
(2) Physical fitness t est:-
 Physical fitness t est alias Endurance test will be conducted only in respect of twice the number of available vacancies 
based on the order of the merit secured at the written Examination upon calling such list of order of the merit of 
the candidates from the commissioner General of Examinations in alphabetical order of the name. the date of this 
interview will be decided by the commissioner General of Prisons.
men  - Running 1000 meters (1 km) in 03 minutes and 44 seconds.
Women - Running 400 meters (0.4km) in 02 minutes and 05 seconds.
the testing board will be appointed by the commissioner General of Prisons.
 (3) Eligibility assessment interview :-
 (i) The Eligibility Assessment Interview will be conducted to check as to whether the recruitment qualifications 
mentioned in clause 06 above are fulfilled and the restrictions imposed on such qualifications are complied 
with.
 (ii) the maximum markes allotted to the key areas are shown in the table below. the Eligibility assessment 
interview Panel will award marks accordingly.
Key areas for which marks will 
be awarded
Maximum marks that could be 
awarded
Minimum marks to be 
considered for selection
additional educational and 
other qualifications
25
Not applicable
V ocational qualifications 15
sports talents 30
Leadership and community 
services
25
skills shown at the interview 05
total 100
 (iii) only the candidates who pass the Physical fitness test alias Endurance test will be called for the Eligibility 
Assessment Interview. The basic qualification will be checked at the Eligibility Assessment Interview (The 
marks obtained by the candidates at the Written Examination will not be called at this stage.)
 (iv) marks obtained by each candidate at the Eligibility assessment interview will be sent to the commissioner 
General of Examinations. the recruitment to the post of Prison Guard will be made based on the order of merit 
of the total marks secured by the candidates both at the Written Examination and the Eligibility assessment 
interview.
Important :- Attending at the interview is not deemed to be a qualification for awarding of appointment.
•	 The appointing authority reserves the right either not to fill any certain number of vacancies or all of the vacancies.
•	 any matter not provided for herein will be determined by the commissioner General of Prisons. all candidates 
are bounded to be obliged to act in compliance with the general rules and regulations  indicated in this Gazette  
Notification.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2306
•	 In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, the Tamil and the English texts of this notification, the 
sinhala text shall prevail.
 h. M. t . N. u pulDeNiya ,
 commissioner General of Prisons.
Prison Headquarters,
No. 150, baseline Road,
colombo 09.
on 07
th  september, 2023.
(For Office use only)
Specimen Application
Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to the Post of Prison Guard - 2023)
town town No.
1st  Preference
2nd  Preference
 (According to paragraph 02 of the Gazette Notification, please indicate the town in words which you intend to sit the 
examination and corresponding town number in figure)
medium of language at the Examination
     
sinhala - 2
tamil - 3
English - 4
 (Write appropriate number in the box)
 (this option is not allowed to change later)
 01. (a) Name in full (i n English block capitals) : ……………………………………………
 (b) Name with initials (initials be written after the names) : …………………………………………………
………………………………………
  (in English block capitals) ( eX. GUNaW aRdHaNa, m.G.b.s.K.)
 (c) Name in full (in sinhala/ tamil) : …………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 02. (a) Permanent address (in English block capitals) (admission card will be sent to this address) : …………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2307
 (b) Permanent address (in sinhala/ tamil) : ……………………………………………...................................
........................................................................................................................................................................
03. sex 
 (female - 1, male - 0 (indicate the appropriate number in the box)
04. National identity card No. : 
05. t elephone No.  mobile
  fixed
06. marital status :
 Unmarried - 1 (indicate the appropriate number in the box)
 married - 2
07. date of birth : 
 y ear                          month    date
08. age as at the closing date of application (16.10.2023)
 y ears  months   days
09. citizenship (by descent/ by registration) : …………………………………
10. Physical measurement of the body
 Height feet : …………… inches : ……………
 chest : inches : ……………
11. Educational Qualifications  
 G.c.E. (o/L) G.c.E. (o/L)
 (i) y ear of the Examination : …………… (i) y ear of the Examination : ……………
 (ii) index No. : …………… (ii) index No. : ……………
 (iii) Examination results : …………… (iii) Examination results : ……………

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2308
Subject Grade
 12. Other Qualifications  : : ……………………………………………............................................................
........................................................................................................................................................................
........................................................................................................................................................................
 13.  if you have been convicted by a court of low for any offence, please indicate all information about such 
conviction : ……………………………………………................................................................................
........................................................................................................................................................................
 14.  Payment of examination fee :
 (i) amount paid : ……………………………………………
 (ii) Office at which the examination fee was paid : ……………………………………………
 (iii) date of payment : ……………………………………………
 (iv) Receipt No. : ……………………………………………
Affix an edge of the receipt.
(if would be advisable to keep a photo copy of the receipt in your safe custody)
 15.  Certificate of the candidate :
  i do hereby declare that the particulars furnished in this application are true and accurate to  the best of 
my knowledge and belief and that the receipt containing No. ……………… dated ……………… in 
proof of the payment of examination fee is affixed herewith. I agree that I am bound to abide by the rules 
and regulations applicable to this examination and that the decision to be taken to cancel my candidature 
at any before the examination or at the time the examination is in progress or after the conclusion of the 
examination if it has been established that I am disqualified for the examination according to the criteria 
of this  examination. i doe further hereby declare that i am liable to be obliged to the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations pertaining to conducting of the examination and 
issuance of results. 
  date : ……………… ……………………
   signature of the candidate
16.   attestation of the applicant's signature :- (shall be as per 8.5 of the Gazette Notification)
Subject Grade

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2309
  i do hereby certify that mr/ mrs./ miss …………………………………… who submits this application 
is personally known to me and that he/she his/her signature in my presence on ………… and further that 
he/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and has affixed the receipt in the space provided in this 
application.
   …………………
    (Signature of the Officer attesting the signature of the candidate)
  Name : ………………………………
  designation : ………………………………
  address : ………………………………
  date : ………………………………
  (Please place the Official stamp in the attestation )
 17.  Certificate of the Head of the Department (This certificate is applicable only for the applicants already serving in 
the Public service)
i do hereby certify that mr/ mrs./ miss …………………………………… who is submitting this 
application is serving in this department /institution and that his/her work and conduct is satisfactory and 
that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications necessary for applying for this post as per this notice and that he/
she could be released/could not be released from his/her present post if he/she will be selected for this post.
   ………………
    (signature of the Head of the department/ institution)
  Name : ………………………………
  designation : ………………………………
  address : ………………………………
  date : ………………………………
  (Please place the Official stamp in the Certification)
09-253
––––––––––––––––––––––––––
mINISTR y Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION, hOmE Aff AIRS, PROvINCIAL  COuNCILS AND 
LOCAL  GOvERNmENT  
EfficiENcy baR ExamiNatioN foR GRadE i officERs of GRama NiLadHaRi-2022/2023  
01.  It is hereby announced that an efficiency bar examination in accordance with the provisions available under the 
approved scheme of recruitment for Grade I Officers of Grama Niladhari will be conducted by the Department of 
Examinations in December, 2023, and applications are invited for that purpose. the application for that has been posted 
on the website of the department of Examinations, sri Lanka, through online applications (Recruitment/E.b.Exams) 
under Our Services, and the applications shall only be submitted under the online method. The officers who appear for 
the examination in their first attempt and those who appear in their subsequent attempts shall select their respective 
attempts correctly. following the submission of the application under online methodology, it should be downloaded, 
and after having completed other details, applicant’s certification, attestation of signature, and the certification of 
the Head of departments, it should be sent under registered cover to reach commissioner General of Examinations, 
institutional Examinations Evaluation branch, department of Examinations of sri Lanka, P.o. box 1503, colombo, on 
or before the closing date of applications. the top left hand corner of the envelop should be clearly marked  Efficiency 
Bar Examination for Grade I officers of Grama Niladhari- 2022/2023. the closing date for applications will be 16th 
October, 2023. 

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2310
 Note- it is compulsory that the printed copy of the application be forwarded by post, and the complaints made that it is 
lost or delayed in the post cannot be considered. applicants themselves should bear the losses and damages that may be 
caused by delaying the applications until the last date. (it will be useful to keep a copy of the downloaded application.)  
02. This examination for officers in Grade I of the Grama Niladhari will only be held in the towns indicated in Table No. 01 
below. the numbers relevant to each town are indicated in the below table, and the relevant heading of the application 
should be completed as per the table containing these towns and town numbers. it will not be allowed to change the 
town or towns indicated subsequently. Any centre mentioned above can be cancelled due to a lack of a sufficient number 
of candidates, and the candidates can be directed to a nearby centre.
Furthermore, if a sufficient number of candidates have not applied for the establishment of examination centres in all 
or the majority of the proposed towns, the Commissioner General of Examinations will make arrangements to hold the 
examination only in colombo.
Table No. 01: towns and town numbers where the examination is held
Town Town Number
colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Jaffna 04
batticaloa 05
Kurunegala 06
anuradhapura 07
badulla 08
Ratnapura 09
03. (i) this examination will be conducted by the commissioner-General of Examinations, and the candidates will be 
bound by the rules and regulations imposed by him with regard to holding this examination. 
(ii) the rules and regulations for candidates have been separately printed in the Gazette Notification. Candidates will 
be subjected to any punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for violation of these rules 
and regulations.
04. Qualifications- Officers who have been promoted to Grade I of the Grama Niladhari as per the scheme of Recruitment 
for Grama Niladhari effective from 29.09.2010 are eligible to appear for this examination.
05. candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each 
subject they appear. For this purpose, any of the following documents will be accepted.
I. National identity card
II. a Valid Passport
III. a Valid driving License
further, the candidates should enter the examination hall without covering their face and ears so that their identity can 
be confirmed. Applicants who refuse to prove their identity in such a manner will not be admitted to the examination 
hall. also, they shall remain without covering their face and ears from the moment they enter the examination until they 
leave the examination hall at the end of the examination so that the examination authorities can identify them.

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2311
06. (i) Applications- online examination applications should only be completed in English. following the receipt of both 
the soft copy filled via online methodology and the printed copy forwarded by registered post, the verification of 
the online copy and the soft copy is done, and acceptance or non-acceptance as a valid application will be notified 
either through a short message (sms) to the mobile phone number used to access the system or to the email address. 
before completing the online application, download the common instructions prepared to apply for the examination. 
Strictly adhere to these instructions when filling out the application. After receiving a hard copy of the application, any 
amendment made therein shall not be treated as a valid amendment. Incomplete applications will be rejected without 
notice.
(ii) Punishment for false information- Care should be taken to furnish accurate information when filling out the 
application. if a candidate is found to be ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage, prior to, 
during, or after the examination, as per the rules and regulations of this examination.
(iii) Officers applying for this examination for the first time need not pay an examination fee. However, for subsequent 
sittings, a fee of Rs. 250 per subject should be paid. When paying the examination fees, payment should be made only 
under the following fee payment methods provided through the online system.  
i. through bank credit cards
ii. any bank debit card with internet banking facility.  
iii. bank of ceylon online banking method
iv. through any bank of ceylon branch. 
Note- instructions on how to make payments through the above methods are posted on the website under technical 
instructions related to the examination.  
Receipt of payment will be notified through a short message (SMS) or an email message. The full amount of the 
examination fee shall be paid, and applications with an underpayment or overpayment of the examination fee shall 
be rejected. The Department of Examinations will not be responsible for errors that may occur in the payment of 
examination fees through the above payment methods. the fee paid for this examination will not be refunded/transferred 
to another examination under any circumstance.
07. On the presumption that only the candidates who fulfill the qualifications specified under the Gazette notification have 
applied,  the commissioner General of Examinations will issue copies of the time table and admission cards to all 
candidates whose applications have been received. A notification of the issuance of admission cards will be posted on the 
department of Examinations website as soon as the admission cards are issued to the candidates. if the admission card is 
not received even after 2 or 3 days of such a notification, steps should be taken to notify to Department of Examinations 
in the manner specified in the notification. With the copy of the application kept in hand, you are requested to inquire 
from the department of Examinations, sri Lanka, stating your full name, address, national identity card number, and the 
name of the examination, and in case of applicants outside colombo, it will be more effective to send a letter of request 
together with the above information to the fax number mentioned in the said advertisement, furnishing a fax number to 
which the admission card should be sent.  
Note- The issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that he/she has fulfilled the 
qualifications to sit for the examination.
08. The candidate’s signature on the admission card should have been attested by the Head of Establishment or an officer 
delegated by him. a candidate shall appear for the examination under the assigned index number at the relevant 
examination hall.
09. The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the 
commissioner General of Examinations, enabling them to appear for the examination.  No travel expenses will be paid. 

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2312
10. the examination will be held only in sinhala and tamil, and candidates should answer question papers in the language 
in which they took the entry examination to the relevant service or in an official language. Officers who joined the 
service without a competitive examination can also appear for this examination in the medium of their education or in 
an official language. It will not be allowed to change the language medium of the examination applied for subsequently.
11. The officers, at their choice, may appear for each subject separately and in different attempts. However, they should 
secure at least 40% of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass. The final date of the year of holding the 
examination on which the candidate completes the examination by passing all the subjects shall be treated as the date 
of passing the Efficiency Bar Examination.
12. the results of the examination will be issued by the commissioner General of Examination to me, and action will 
be taken to notify the applicants of the names of the candidates who have passed the examination through district 
secretaries and divisional secretaries.
13. the candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examination when 
conducting the examination. He /she is liable to a punishment imposed by the commissioner General of Examination 
for violation of these rules and regulations, and my decision shall be final in respect of any matters related to this subject 
that are not provided for in this notification.
14. If it appears that there is any inconsistency or mismatch between language texts in this notification, which is published 
in Sinhala, Tamil, and English mediums, the notification in Sinhala medium shall prevail, and thus action will be taken 
accordingly.
15. Examination Procedure: Candidates should sit for a written examination, which will consist of the following subjects.
Table No. 2:  The subjects in which the examination is held and the other applicable details
         
Subject Subject 
No Marks Duration Pass 
Mark
Office systems , General Conduct and Discipline in 
Public service                    1 100 01 ½ hours 40%
Subject related studies and Professional Knowledge             2 100 01 ½ hours  40%
15.1 Office methods , General Conduct and Discipline in Public Service (Subject No. 01) 
(a) Office Systems 
It is expected to test the basic knowledge on office systems used in government offices and Grama Niladhari offices and 
ability to apply that knowledge in practice. 
(b) General conduct and discipline in Public service
Knowledge and understanding of the delegation of powers on matters as per Public service commission Procedural rules, 
termination of service, rules related to retirement, provisions mentioned in chapter xLVii and xLViii  related to General 
conduct and disciplinary Procedure of V olume ii of the Establishment code, and the circulars that have been currently 
issued in that regard will be tested.   

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2313
15.1.1 Details about the question paper
this paper consists of two parts. 
Part i   - multiple choice question paper. duration is 30 minutes 
(25 marks) 
Part ii - A semi-structured question paper consisting 05 questions. All five 
questions should be answered.  (75 marks)
15.2 Subject related studies and Professional knowledge (Subject No. - 02) 
the knowledge of Grama Niladhari on the duties entrusted to him by various acts and regulations, ministries, departments, 
provincial councils, and other statutory institutions of the government will be tested, and the case studies consist of cases 
related to the subject.  
15.2.1 Details about the question paper
this paper consists of two parts. 
Part i   - multiple choice question paper. duration is 30 minutes (25 marks)
Part ii - A semi-structured question paper consisting 05 questions. All five questions 
should be answered. duration is 01 hour. (75 marks)
    
K.D.N. RaNjith aSoKa,
ministry of Public administration, Home affairs,               secretary. 
Provincial councils and Local Government,     
Nila medura, Elvitigala mawatha, 
colombo 05. 
on  07th september, 2023.      
09-325/1
––––––––––––––––––––––––––
mINISTR y Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION, hOmE Aff AIRS, PROvINCIAL  COuNCILS AND 
LOCAL  GOvERNmENT
Efficiency Bar Examination for Grade II Officers of Grama Niladhari-2022/2023  
01.  It is hereby announced that an efficiency bar examination in accordance with the provisions available under the 
approved scheme of recruitment for Grade II officers of Grama Niladhari will be conducted by the Department of 
Examinations in december 2023, and applications are invited for that purpose. the application for that has been posted 
on the website of the department of Examinations, sri Lanka, through online applications (Recruitment/E.b.Exams) 
under Our Services, and the applications shall only be submitted under the online method. The officers who appear for 
the examination in their first attempt and those who appear in their subsequent attempts shall select their respective 
attempts correctly. following the submission of the application under online methodology, it should be downloaded, and 
after having completed other details, applicant’s certification, attestation of signature, and the certification of the Head 
of departments, it should be sent under registered cover to reach commissioner General of Examinations, institutional 
Examinations Evaluation branch, department of Examinations of sri Lanka, P.o. box 1503, colombo, on or before the 
closing date of applications. the top left hand corner of envelop should be clearly marked  Efficiency Bar Examination 
for Grade II officers of Grama Niladhari- 2022/2023. the closing date for applications will be 16th October, 2023.
      Note- it is compulsory that the printed copy of the application be forwarded by post, and the complaints made that it is 

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2314
lost or delayed in the post cannot be considered. applicants themselves should bear the losses and damages that may be 
caused by delaying the applications until the last date. (it will be useful to keep a copy of the downloaded application.)
02. This examination for officers in Grade II of the Grama Niladhari will only be held in the towns indicated in Table No. 01 
below. the numbers relevant to each town are indicated in the below table, and the relevant heading of the application 
should be completed as per the table containing these towns and town numbers. it will not be allowed to change the 
town or towns indicated subsequently. Any centre mentioned above can be cancelled due to a lack of a sufficient number 
of candidates, and the candidates can be directed to a nearby centre.
Furthermore, if a sufficient number of candidates have not applied for the establishment of examination centres in all 
or the majority of the proposed towns, the Commissioner General of Examinations will make arrangements to hold the 
examination only in colombo.
Table No. 01: towns and town numbers where the examination is held
Town Town Number
colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Jaffna 04
batticaloa 05
Kurunegala 06
anuradhapura 07
badulla 08
Ratnapura 09
03. (i) this examination will be conducted by the commissioner-General of Examinations, and the candidates will be 
bound by the rules and regulations imposed by him with regard to holding this examination.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been separately printed in the Gazette Notification. Candidates will 
be subjected to any punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for violation of these rules 
and regulations.
04. Qualifications- Officers who have been promoted/absorbed into Grade II of the Grama Niladhari Service as per the 
scheme of Recruitment for Grama Niladharies effective from 29.09.2010 are eligible to appear for this examination.
05. candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each 
subject they appear. For this purpose, any of the following documents will be accepted.
i. National Identity Card;
ii. A Valid Passport;
iii. a Valid driving License.
further, the candidates should enter the examination hall without covering their face and ears so that their identity can 
be confirmed. Applicants who refuse to prove their identity in such a manner will not be admitted to the examination 
hall. also, they shall remain without covering their face and ears from the moment they enter the examination until they 
leave the examination hall at the end of the examination so that the examination authorities can identify them. 
06. (i) applications- online examination application should only be completed in English. following the receipt of both the 
soft copy filled via online methodology and the printed copy forwarded by registered post, the verification of the online 
copy and the soft copy is done, and acceptance or non-acceptance as a valid application will be notified either through a 
short message (sms) to the mobile phone number used to access the system or to the email address. before completing 
the online application, download the common instructions prepared to apply for the examination. strictly adhere to 
these instructions when filling out the application. After receiving a hard copy of the application, any amendment made 
therein shall not be treated as a valid amendment. Incomplete applications will be rejected without notice.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2315
(ii) Punishment for false information- Care should be taken to furnish accurate information when filling out the 
application. if a candidate is found to be ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage, prior to, 
during, or after the examination, as per the rules and regulations of this examination. 
(iii) Officers applying for this examination for the first time need not pay an examination fee. However, for subsequent 
sittings, a fee of Rs. 250 per subject should be paid. When paying the examination fees, payment should be made only 
under the following fee payment methods provided through the online system.  
i. Through bank credit cards;
ii. Any bank debit card with internet banking facility;
iii. Bank of Ceylon online banking method;
iv. through any bank of ceylon branch. 
Note- instructions on how to make payments through the above methods are posted on the website under technical 
instructions related to the examination.  Receipt of payment will be notified through a short message (SMS) or an email 
message. the full amount of the examination fee shall be paid, and applications with an underpayment or overpayment 
of the examination fee shall be rejected. The Department of Examinations will not be responsible for errors that may 
occur in the payment of examination fees through the above payment methods. the fee paid for this examination will 
not be refunded/transferred to another examination under any circumstance.
07. On the presumption that only the candidates who fulfill the qualifications specified under the gazette notification have 
applied,  the commissioner General of Examinations will issue copies of the time table and admission cards to all 
candidates whose applications have been received. A notification of the issuance of admission cards will be posted on the 
department of Examinations website as soon as the admission cards are issued to the candidates. if the admission card is 
not received even after 2 or 3 days of such a notification, steps should be taken to notify to Department of Examinations 
in the manner specified in the notification. With the copy of the application kept in hand, you are requested to inquire 
from the department of Examinations, sri Lanka, stating your full name, address, national identity card number, and the 
name of the examination, and in case of applicants outside colombo, it will be more effective to send a letter of request 
together with the above information to the fax number mentioned in the said advertisement, furnishing a fax number to 
which the admission card should be sent.  
Note - The issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that he/she has fulfilled the 
qualifications to sit for the examination.
08. The candidate’s signature on the admission card should have been attested by the Head of Establishment or an officer 
delegated by him. a candidate shall appear for the examination under the assigned index number at the relevant 
examination hall.
09. The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the 
commissioner General of Examinations, enabling them to appear for the examination.  No travel expenses will be paid.
10. the examination will be held only in sinhala and tamil, and candidates should answer question papers in the language 
in which they took the entry examination to the relevant service or in an official language. Officers who joined the 
service without a competitive examination can also appear for this examination in the medium of their education or in 
an official language. It will not be allowed to change the language medium of the examination applied for subsequently.
11. The officers, at their choice, may appear for each subject separately and in different attempts. However, they should 
secure at least 40% of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass. The final date of the year of holding the 
examination on which the candidate completes the examination by passing all the subjects shall be treated as the date 
of passing the Efficiency Bar Examination.
12. the results of the examination will be issued by the commissioner General of Examination to me, and action will 
be taken to notify the applicants of the names of the candidates who have passed the examination through district 
secretaries and divisional secretaries.

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2316
13. the candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examination when 
conducting the examination. He /she is liable to a punishment imposed by the commissioner General of Examination 
for violation of these rules and regulations, and my decision shall be final in respect of any matters related to this subject 
that are not provided for in this notification.
14. If it appears that there is any inconsistency or mismatch between language texts in this notification, which is published 
in Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums, the notification in Sinhala medium shall prevail and thus action will be taken 
accordingly. 
15.  Examination Procedure: Candidates should sit for a written examination, which will consist of the following subjects.
table No. 2:  The subjects in which the examination is held and the other applicable details
Subject Marks Duration Subject 
Number 
1. Establishments code and Procedural Rules                     100 01 ½ hours 1
2. case studies and Professional Knowledge                       100 01 ½ hours 2
15.1 Establishments Code and Procedural Rules 
 (a) Office Methods
  It is expected to test the basic knowledge on office methods used in government offices and Grama Niladhari offices 
and ability to apply that knowledge in practice.
 (b) Establishments functions and Procedural Rules   
 Knowledge and understanding of the provisions mentioned in Public service commission Procedural Rules and 
chapters, Vii, ix, xi, xii, xiV , xV , xVi, xVii, xxi, xxii, xxiii, xxiV , xxV , xxVi, xxVii, xxViii, xxix, 
xxx, xxxi, xxxii, xxxiii of the Establishment code and the currently used Public administration and Public 
service commission circulars, will be tested. 
15.1.1 Details about the question paper
 this paper consists of two parts.
Part i   - multiple choice question paper. duration is 30 minutes (25 marks)
Part ii - a semi-structured question paper consisting 03 questions. all three questions 
should be answered. duration is 01 hour.  
 (75 marks) 
15.2 Case Studies and Professional knowledge  
Knowledge of Grama Niladhari on the duties entrusted to him by various acts and regulations, ministries, departments, 
provincial councils, and other statutory institutions of the government will be tested, and it consists of a case study 
related to the said subject.
15.2.1 Details about the question paper
 this paper consists of two parts. 

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2317
Part i   - multiple choice question paper. duration is 30 minutes 
(25 marks)
Part ii - a semi-structured question paper consisting 03 questions. all three questions 
should be answered. duration is 01 hour.  
(75 marks) 
    
K.D.N. R aNjith  a SoKa ,
ministry of Public administration, Home affairs,   secretary.
Provincial councils and Local Government,     
Nila medura, Elvitigala mawatha,       
colombo 05,     
on 09th september, 2023.      
09-325/2
––––––––––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION, hOmE AffAIRS, PROvINCIAL COuNCILS AND 
LOCAL GOvERNmENT 
Written Test to examine the Computer Skills and the Efficiency Bar Examination for Grade III officers of Grama 
Niladhari-2022/2023 
01.  it is hereby announced that an efficiency bar examination and a written test to examine computer skills in accordance 
with the provisions available under the approved scheme of recruitment for Grade III Officers of Grama Niladhari will 
be conducted by the department of Examinations in December 2023, and applications are invited for that purpose. 
the application for that has been posted on the website of the department of Examinations, sri Lanka, through 
online applications (Recruitment/E.b.Exams) under our services, and the applications shall only be submitted under 
the online method. The officers who appear for the examination in their first attempt and those who appear in their 
subsequent attempts shall select their respective attempts correctly. following the submission of the application under 
online methodology, it should be downloaded, and after having completed other details, applicant’s certification, 
attestation of signature, and the certification of the Head of Departments, it should be sent under registered cover to reach 
commissioner General of Examinations, institutional Examinations Evaluation branch, department of Examinations 
of sri Lanka, P.o. box 1503, colombo, on or before the closing date of applications. the top left hand corner of the 
envelop should be clearly marked Written Test to examine the Computer Skills and the Efficiency Bar Examination for 
Grade III officers of Grama Niladhari - 2022/2023. the closing date for applications will be 16th October, 2023.           
 Note- it is compulsory that the printed copy of the application be forwarded by post, and the complaints made that it is 
lost or delayed in the post cannot be considered. applicants themselves should bear the losses and damages that may be 
caused by delaying the applications until the last date. (it will be useful to keep a copy of the downloaded application.)      
02. This examination for officers in Grade III of the Grama Niladhari will only be held in the towns indicated in Table 
No. 01 below. the numbers relevant to each town are indicated in the below table, and the relevant heading of the 
application should be completed as per the table containing these towns and town numbers. it will not be allowed to 
change the town or towns indicated subsequently. any centre mentioned above can be cancelled due to a lack of a 
sufficient number of candidates, and the candidates can be directed to a nearby centre.   
Furthermore, if a sufficient number of candidates have not applied for the establishment of examination centres in all 
or the majority of the proposed towns, the Commissioner General of Examinations will make arrangements to hold the 
examination only in Colombo.

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2318
Table No. 01: towns and town numbers where the examination is held
Town Town Number
colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Jaffna 04
batticaloa 05
Kurunegala 06
anuradhapura 07
badulla 08
Ratnapura 09
03. (i) this examination will be conducted by the commissioner-General of Examinations, and the candidates will be 
bound by the rules and regulations imposed by him with regard to holding this examination. 
(ii) the rules and regulations for candidates have been separately printed in the Gazette Notification. Candidates will 
be subjected to any punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for violation of these rules 
and regulations.
04. Officers who have been recruited to Grade III of the Grama Niladhari Service as per the Scheme of Recruitment for 
Grama Niladhari effective from 29.09.2010 are eligible to appear for this examination.
05. candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each 
subject they appear. For this purpose, any of the following documents will be accepted.
I. National identity card 
II. a Valid Passport 
III. a Valid driving License 
further, the candidates should enter the examination hall without covering their face and ears so that their identity can 
be confirmed. Applicants who refuse to prove their identity in such a manner will not be admitted to the examination 
hall. also, they shall remain without covering their face and ears from the moment they enter the examination until they 
leave the examination hall at the end of the examination so that the examination authorities can identify them.       
06. (i) applications- online examination application should only be completed in English. following the receipt of both the 
soft copy filled via online methodology and the printed copy forwarded by registered post, the verification of the online 
copy and the soft copy is done, and acceptance or non-acceptance as a valid application will be notified either through a 
short message (sms) to the mobile phone number used to access the system or to the email address. before completing 
the online application, download the common instructions prepared to apply for the examination. strictly adhere to 
these instructions when filling out the application. After receiving a hard copy of the application, any amendment made 
therein shall not be treated as a valid amendment. Incomplete applications will be rejected without notice.        
(ii) Punishment for false information- Care should be taken to furnish accurate information when filling out the 
application. if a candidate is found to be ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage, prior to, 
during, or after the examination, as per the rules and regulations of this examination.  
(iii) Officers applying for this examination for the first time need not pay an examination fee. However, for subsequent 
sittings, a fee of Rs. 250 per subject should be paid. When paying the examination fees, payment should be made only 
under the following fee payment methods provided through the online system. 

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2319
i. through bank credit cards 
ii. any bank debit card with internet banking facility.  
iii. bank of ceylon online banking method 
iv. through any bank of ceylon branch. 
Note- instructions on how to make payments through the above methods are posted on the website under technical 
instructions related to the examination.  
Receipt of payment will be notified through a short message (SMS) or an email message. The full amount of the 
examination fee shall be paid, and applications with an underpayment or overpayment of the examination fee shall 
be rejected. The Department of Examinations will not be responsible for errors that may occur in the payment of 
examination fees through the above payment methods. the fee paid for this examination will not be refunded/transferred 
to another examination under any circumstance.     
07. The presumption that only the candidates who fulfill the qualifications specified under the Gazette notification have 
applied,  the commissioner General of Examinations will issue copies of the time table and admission cards to all 
candidates whose applications have been received. A notification of the issuance of admission cards will be posted on the 
department of Examinations website as soon as the admission cards are issued to the candidates. if the admission card is 
not received even after 2 or 3 days of such a notification, steps should be taken to notify to Department of Examinations 
in the manner specified in the notification. With the copy of the application kept in hand, you are requested to inquire 
from the department of Examinations, sri Lanka, stating your full name, address, national identity card number, and the 
name of the examination, and in case of applicants outside colombo, it will be more effective to send a letter of request 
together with the above information to the fax number mentioned in the said advertisement, furnishing a fax number to 
which the admission card should be sent.   
Note- The issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that he/she has fulfilled the 
qualifications to sit for the examination.
08. The candidate’s signature on the admission card should have been attested by the Head of Establishment or an officer 
delegated by him. a candidate shall appear for the examination under the assigned index number at the relevant 
examination hall.
09. The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the 
commissioner General of Examinations, enabling them to appear for the examination.  No travel expenses will be paid.
10. the examination will be held only in sinhala and tamil, and candidates should answer question papers in the language 
in which they took the entry examination to the relevant service or in an official language. Officers who joined the 
service without a competitive examination can also appear for this examination in the medium of their education or in 
an official language. It will not be allowed to change the language medium of the examination applied for subsequently.
11. The officers, at their choice, may appear for each subject separately and in different attempts. However, they should 
secure at least 40% of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass. The final date of the year of holding the 
examination on which the candidate completes the examination by passing all the subjects shall be treated as the date 
of passing the Efficiency Bar Examination.    
12. the results of the examination will be issued by the commissioner General of Examination to me, and action will 
be taken to notify the applicants of the names of the candidates who have passed the examination through district 
secretaries and divisional secretaries.
13. the candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examination when 
conducting the examination. He /she is liable to a punishment imposed by the commissioner General of Examination 
for violation of these rules and regulations, and my decision shall be final in respect of any matters related to this subject 
that are not provided for in this notification. 
14. If it appears that there is any inconsistency or mismatch between language texts in this notification, which is published 
in Sinhala, Tamil, and English mediums, the notification in Sinhala medium shall prevail, and thus action will be taken 
accordingly. 

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2320
15. Examination Procedure: Candidates should sit for a written examination, which will consist of the following subjects.  
Table No. 2:  The subjects in which the examination is held and the other applicable details:
Subject Subject No. marks Duration 
01 Office Methods and Accounting 01 100 02 hours
02 Subject related Professional 
Knowledge               02 100 02 hours
03 computer test                       03 100 01 ½ hours
15.1 Office methods and Accounting (Subject No - 01)
(a.) Office Methods 
It is intended to test the candidate's ability to apply the basic knowledge on office systems used in Grama Niladhari 
office and other government offices, ability to understand official letters and documents properly and to present his/her 
opinions/observations through brief notes and the ability to draft a report on subject related matters.
 (b.) accounting 
it is expected to test the candidates of their knowledge on basic accounts and accounts systems used in the duties 
related to Grama Niladhari service and other government offices, functions of cash control accounts and procurement 
procedures.
15.1.1 Details about the question paper 
Part i   -
consists of a short answer questions. Questions should be answered in
the paper itself. should answer all questions (25 marks)
Part ii - a paper consisting of 03 structured essay type questions. all 03 
Questions should be answered. (75 marks)
  
15.2 Subject related Professional knowledge (Subject No. - 02) 
this paper is designed to test the knowledge of Grama Niladhari on the duties entrusted to him by various acts and 
regulations, ministries, departments, provincial councils and other statutory institutions of the government.
15.2.1 Details about the question paper
Part i   - consists of a short answer questions. Questions should be answered in the paper itself. 
should answer all questions (25 marks)
Part ii - a paper consisting of 03 structured essay type questions. all 03 
questions should be answered. (75 marks)

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2321
15.3 Computer Test (Subject No - 03) 
 The objective of this test is to examine whether the applicant possesses the following skills.
i. basic concepts of information technology 
ii. operating systems 
iii. folder management 
iV. Word Processing i. basic skills, screen familiarization, editing texts, aligning texts,  fonts and 
attributes ,  indenting paragraphs, change of line spacing , 
Tab Settings,  finding and replacing text ,
ii. spelling and grammar mistakes,  thesaurus ,
iii. Working with columns, page setup ,
iv. Printing documents, creating tables. sorting texts ,
v.  file management,
vi. mail merging, ,
vii. Working with macros ,
V. spreadsheets i. basic skills, 
ii. formatting ( formatting ),
iii. Editing,
iv. columns and ranges ,  insertion and deletion ,
v.  sorting data ,
vi. creating charts , 
vii. Printing,
viii.  function 
ix. working with macros, file management
Vi. data base i. introduction, basic skills 
ii. designing database and use ,
iii. formats,
iv. alignment formats, popup forms,
v.  Queries,
vi. sorting,
vii. obtaining reports,
viii. Use of macros,
Vii. Presentation/ 
illustrations 
i. basic skills, editing, formatting ,
ii. applying designs ,
iii. images, clip art and chart entry,
iv. slide transition and animation, use of presentation tools
v.  Printing slides and noes,
Viii. internet i. introduction to internet , world wide web, 
ii. How to navigate,
iii. Practical internet

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2322
ix. Email i. introduction, basic skills, receiving mail,
ii. sending mail, responding to mails,
iii. working with attachments, creating and using nicknames,
iv. composing messages,
15.3.1 Details about the question paper
this paper consists of two parts, and the stipulated time for the below-mentioned Part i and Part ii is 1 ½ hours.
Part i - consists of 40 multiple choice Questions/short answer questions. 
(40 marks)
Part ii - 05 semi structured questions. 
(60 marks)
15.3.2 Required qualifications to be exempted from the written test of the Computer subject
(a) Courses and certificates that will qualify to be exempt from the written test for the computer subject
The officers who have obtained computer operating license awarded by the National Apprentice and Industrial Training 
Authority and those who have obtained certificates (of which the recognition is equivalent or higher to computer operating 
license) on theory and practical knowledge of computer technology issued by the institutions recognized by tertiary 
Education and V ocational Education commission as per Paragraph 06 of annexure 2 of the Recruitment Procedure for 
Grama Niladharies dated 29.09.2010 shall be exempted from the requirement of passing this computer test. Further, officers 
who have obtained the certificate of Computer Application Assistant (NVQ-Level 3) offered by the National Apprentice and 
industrial training authority shall also be exempted from the written test.
(b) Degree courses that will qualify to be exempt from the written test for the computer subject. 
The officers who have obtained the below-mentioned degree from a university recognized by the University Grants 
Commission shall be exempted from the computer test of the Efficiency Bar Examination.
1. computer science/information technology degree
                                    or
2. A degree with Computer Science/Information Technology as a subject 
                                    or
3. A degree with the subject covering the syllabus of the computer test related to first efficiency bar examination  
on 07th september, 2023     
K.D.N. RaNjith aSoKa,
ministry of Public administration, Home affairs,   secretary. 
Provincial councils and Local Government,     
Nila medura, Elvitigala mawatha,       
colombo 05.      
09-325/3

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2023
2323
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  sRi  LaNKa.
DEPARTmENT  Of  ImmIGRATION AND EmIGRATION
Amendment of closing date of accepting applications
First Efficiency Bar Examination for Grade II Authorized Officers of the Department of Immigration 
and Emigration - 2023 
01. It is hereby notified by virtue of the powers vested in with the Controller General of Immigration and Emigration as 
the appointing authority that the closing date of accepting applications is extended up to 22.09.2023 in Paragraph 04 
of the Notification in Gazette No. 2,346 of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka dated friday, 18th august, 
2023 - (18.08.2023) issued notifying that the sri Lanka institute of development administration would conduct the 
First efficiency bar examination for Authorized officers in the year 2023 in Colombo in compliance with the provisions 
in the Approved Scheme of Recruitments for Authorized officers of Department of Immigration and Emigration,
02. The other provisions in the notification in Gazette No. 2,346 of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka dated 
friday, 18th august, 2023 (18.08,2023) will further remain in effect.
03. If there is any inconsistency in Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification, the text in the Sinhala notificaiton 
shall prevail.
     
i. S. h. j. iluKpitiya,
     controller General of immigration and Emigration.
department of immigration and Emigration,
suhurupaya,
battaramulla.
13th september, 2023.
09 - 340