

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
BUDGETARY RELIEF ALLOWANCE OF
WORKERS ACT, No. 4 OF 2016
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 23rd March, 2016]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 18.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 24, 2016

<!-- page 2 -->

1Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers
Act, No. 4 of 2016
2—PL 009757—  2,950 (02/2016)
[Certified on 23rd March, 2016]
L.D.—O. 27/2015.
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE PAYMENT OF A BUDGETARY RELIEF
ALLOWANCE BY EMPLOYERS TO WORKERS AND FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Budgetary Relief
Allowance of Workers Act, No. 4 of 2016.
2. (1) The Commissioner-General shall be the competent
authority for the purposes of this Act.
(2) The competent authority may delegate to any officer
of the Department of Labour any power, function or duty
conferred or imposed on, or assigned to, such authority by
this Act.
3. (1) With effect from May 1, 2015, every employer in
any industry or service shall, in respect of each month pay to
every worker employed by him, a Budgetary Relief
Allowance (hereinafter referred to as “the allowance”),
calculated on the following basis:-
(a) in the case of a worker whose  monthly wages or
salary for the month of May, 2015 (hereinafter
referred to as the “relevant month”) is rupees forty
thousand or below, the allowance payable shall be
one thousand five hundred rupees:
 Provided however, that in the case of a worker
who for any reason other than the failure of the
employer to provide work for such worker, does
Short title.
Competent
Authority.
Payment of
Budgetary Relief
Allowance.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers
Act, No. 4 of 2016
not work for the required number of days in a month as
prescribed by any written law or contract of
employment, the allowance payable to such worker
for such month shall be in proportion to the number of
days he has worked during such month;
(b) in the case of a worker who is paid a daily rate not
exceeding  rupees one thousand six hundred for the
relevant month, the allowance payable shall be sixty
rupees per day for each day he has worked during the
month;
(c) in the case of a worker who is employed in the relevant
month on a piece-rate basis, the allowance payable in
respect of a month shall be not less than fifteen per
centum of the total wages or salary payable to such
worker for that month:
Provided however, the total allowance payable for
a month under paragraph (a), (b) or (c) shall not exceed
one thousand five hundred rupees;
(d) in the case of a worker whose monthly wages or salary
for the relevant month exceeds rupees forty thousand
and does not exceed rupees forty one thousand five
hundred, the allowance payable shall be the difference
between rupees forty one thousand five hundred and
the amount of wages or salary for the relevant month;
(e) in the case of a worker who is paid a daily rate of a sum
exceeding rupees one thousand six hundred and not
exceeding rupees one thousand six hundred sixty for
the relevant month, the daily allowance payable shall
be one twenty fifth of the difference between rupees
forty one thousand five hundred and the total wages
for the relevant month.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers
Act, No. 4 of 2016
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1),
every employer in any industry or service shall, in respect of
each month commencing from January 1, 2016 pay to every
worker referred to in subsection (1)  employed by him, an
allowance calculated on the following basis:–
(a) in the case of a worker whose monthly wages or
salary for the relevant month is rupees forty
thousand or below, the allowance payable shall be
one thousand rupees:
Provided however, that in the case of a worker
who for any reason other than the failure of the
employer to provide work for such worker, does
not work for the required number of days in a month
as prescribed by any written law or contract of
employment, the allowance payable to such worker
for such month shall be in proportion to the number
of days he has worked during such month;
(b) in the case of a worker who is paid a daily rate not
exceeding rupees one thousand six hundred for the
relevant month, the allowance payable shall be a
sum of forty rupees per day for each day he has
worked during the month;
(c) in the case of a worker who is employed in the
relevant month on a piece-rate basis, the allowance
payable in respect of a month shall be not less than
ten per centum of the total wages or salary payable
to such worker for that month:
Provided however, the total allowance payable
for a month under paragraph (a), (b) or (c) shall not
exceed one thousand rupees.
(3) (a) The allowance payable under subsection (1) or (2)
or both subsections (1) and (2), as the case may be, shall be
subjected to a maximum limit of the total wages or salary of
rupees forty one thousand five hundred to a worker for a
month.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers
Act, No. 4 of 2016
(b) For the avoidance of doubt, it is declared that any worker
who has received the allowance under paragraph ( d) or (e) of
subsection (1) shall not be entitled to any allowance under
subsection (2).
(4)  An employer in any industry or service who had made
wages or salary increase of the workers employed by him, during
the period between October 1, 2014 and April 30, 2015 if such
increases added together exceed the amount to be increased
under subsection (1) or under subsections (1) and (2), such
employer shall be exempt from the application of subsection
(1) or both subsections (1) and (2), as the case may be.
(5) A worker who has received wages or salary increase of a
sum less than one thousand five hundred rupees during the
period between October 1, 2014 and April 30, 2015 shall be
entitled to an allowance under subsection (1) which is equivalent
to the difference between one thousand five hundred rupees
and the amount of such wages or salary increase.
(6) A worker who has received wages or salary increase of a
sum more than one thousand five hundred rupees and less than
two thousand five hundred rupees during the period between
October  1, 2014 and April 30, 2015 shall be entitled to an
allowance under subsection (2) which is equivalent to the
difference between two thousand five hundred rupees and the
amount of such wages or salary increase.
(7) A worker who is covered by–
(a) a Collective Agreement entered into under the
Industrial Disputes Act (Chapter 131), which is in
force on the date of coming into operation of this
Act and which contains provisions relating to
increase of wages; or
(b) an order under subsection (2) of section 10 of the
Industrial Disputes Act, extending the application
of a Collective Agreement referred to in paragraph
(a) in respect of such worker,

<!-- page 6 -->

5Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers
Act, No. 4 of 2016
shall not be entitled to the allowance under subsection (1)
or subsection (2).
(8) A worker who is employed –
(a) by any charitable institution within the meaning
of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006; or
(b) by any religious institution maintained for, or
connected with worship,
shall not be entitled to the allowance under this Act.
For the purpose of this subsection, “religious institution”
means any temple, kovil, church, mosque or other similar
institution and includes any institution owned and
maintained by such temple, kovil, church or mosque for the
purpose of, or connected with worship.
(9) The Minister may, taking into consideration the
relevant declining economic conditions prevailing in
relation to any industry or service, in consultation with the
Minister assigned the subject of Industry and the Minister
assigned the subject of Economic Affairs, defer by Order
published in the Gazette, the operation of the provisions of
this section in relation to any industry or service specified
in such Order, to such date as may be specified therein :
Provided that, any deferment in terms of this subsection
shall not extend beyond a period of twelve months from the
date of the making of such Order.
 (10) For the purposes of subsections (4), (5) and (6), the
expression “wages or salary increase” means any increase of
wages or salary connected to Budgetary Relief Allowance
under this Act but does not include any annual or periodical
increments given to a worker or to which a worker is entitled:
Provided however, any increase paid to a worker by any
employer, which is in the nature of increment connected to
the allowance under this Act within the period commencing

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers
Act, No. 4 of 2016
from October 1, 2014 and ending on April 30, 2015 shall be
deemed as a part of the wages or salary for the purpose of this
section.
 4. Every worker who had been employed by any employer
in the relevant month subject to the provisions of section 3, for
so long as he continues to be a worker of such employer, shall
continue to be so employed on such terms and conditions
relating to wages or salary, allowances or other payments in
money by whatsoever name or designation as are not less
favourable than those which such worker had enjoyed on the
day immediately prior to the date of the coming into operation
of this Act.
5. (1) The employer of a worker in any industry or
service shall from and after the date of the coming into operation
of this Act, maintain and keep in the premises in which that
industry or service is carried on, a register setting out—
(a) the name of each worker employed by him;
(b) the class of work performed by each worker employed
by him; and
(c) the amount paid to each such worker as allowance in
accordance with the provisions of this Act.
(2) Every register maintained under subsection (1) shall be
preserved for a period of six years by the employer. Every
employer shall when required by the Commissioner-General,
produce such register for inspection or furnish a true copy
thereof or permit a copy of such register to be made.
(3) Where an employer of any worker in any industry or
service has failed to maintain and keep in the premises where
that industry or service is carried on the register required to be
kept under subsection (1) or fails, when required to do so under
subsection (2) to produce such register for inspection, the
Special
provisions
regarding
continuation
of
employment.
Duty of the
employer to
maintain a
register.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers
Act, No. 4 of 2016
Commissioner-General is hereby empowered to assess the
allowance or the short payment of allowances, as the case
may be, payable to such worker under this Act on the basis
of all the evidence, both oral and documentary, available to
him and the provisions of section 11 shall apply where
default is made in the payment of any such allowance.
6. The competent authority shall have power—
(a) to enter into and inspect at all reasonable hours
of the day or night, any place in which workers
in any industry or service are employed, for the
purpose of examining any register or for
ascertaining whether the provisions of this Act
are being complied with;
(b) where no such register is available for
examination when he inspects such place, to
require the production of such register on a
specified later date for examination at such place
or at the office of such authority;
(c) to take copies of the whole or any part of any
such register;
(d) to question any person whom he finds in such
place and whom he has reasonable cause to
believe is an employer of workers employed in
any industry or service carried on in such place;
or
(e) to direct, in writing, any employer of workers
employed in any industry or service to furnish
him on or before a specified date, with–
(i) a return, relating to all workers employed
by any such employer in any specified
class or description of such workers and
containing such other particulars as he
may require for the purposes of this Act;
Powers of
competent
authority.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers
Act, No. 4 of 2016
(ii) such information or explanation as he may
require in respect of particulars stated in any
return furnished by any such employer; or
(iii) a true copy of the whole or any part of any
register maintained by any such employer.
7. (1) Any employer in any industry or service who
contravenes the provisions of section 3 or section 4 or section
5 of this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding twenty five
thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either description for a
term not exceeding six months or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
 (2) Any person who–
(a) fails to furnish the competent authority with such
assistance as is necessary for any entry or inspection
or for the exercise of his powers under section 6;
(b) hinders or obstructs such authority in the exercise
of the powers conferred by that section;
(c) refuses to produce any register or furnish any
information which such authority requires him to
produce or furnish;
(d) makes or causes to be made in any register, any
false statement or makes or causes or knowingly
permits to be produced, any register containing a
false statement to such authority, knowing the same
to be false;
(e) furnishes any information to such authority acting
under the powers conferred by that section,
knowing the same to be false; or
(f) fails to comply with any directions given by such
authority under section 6, or who, when called upon
Offences and
penalties.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers
Act, No. 4 of 2016
to furnish a return under that section, knowingly,
makes or furnishes, or causes to be made or
furnished, a return containing any false statement,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding twenty five thousand
rupees or to imprisonment of either description for a term
not exceeding six months or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
8. Where an offence under this Act is committed by a
body of persons then—
(a) if that body of persons is a body corporate, every
person who at the time of the commission of the
offence was a director, general manager, agent,
secretary or officer holding similar office of that
body;
(b) if that body of persons is a firm, every partner of
that firm; or
(c) if that body of persons is not a body corporate,
every person who at the time of the commission of
the offence was a member of that body,
shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence, unless he proves
that the offence was committed without his consent or
connivance and that he exercised all such diligence so as to
prevent the commission of that offence as he ought to have
exercised having regard to the nature of his functions and
the related circumstances.
 9. The allowance payable to a worker under this Act
shall be deemed for all purposes to include—
(a) contributions to Employees’ Provident Fund,
Employees Trust Fund and pension;
Liability of the
directors and
certain officers
for offences
committed by a
body of persons.
Payment due
under this Act to
constitute part of
a worker’s
wages or salary.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers
Act, No. 4 of 2016
(b) wages or salary of annual holiday or leave;
(c) overtime remuneration;
(d) maternity benefit payment; and
(e) gratuity,
and shall constitute part of the wages or salary of such worker.
Every employer of any such worker shall pay such allowance
within the period within which such employer is required by
any relevant written law to pay the wages or salary of such
worker.
10. (1) Any employer who fails to pay the allowance
required to be paid to a worker under this Act shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction by a Magistrate to
a fine not exceeding twenty five thousand rupees or to
imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding six
months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) Upon conviction by the Magistrate of an employer for
failure to pay any sum required to be paid to a worker under this
Act, the court shall, in addition to the penalty imposed for such
offence, order such employer to pay such sum to such worker
within a period specified in the Order, and if the sum is not so
paid, such sum shall be recovered by Order of court, as if it were
a fine imposed by the court and paid to such worker.
11. (1) Where any employer defaults in payment of the
allowance payable to any worker or workers the Commissioner-
General shall, after such investigation as he may deem necessary,
if he is satisfied that the employer has defaulted payment of the
allowance to such worker or workers, by notice issued to such
employer, require the employer to deposit with him the amount
of the allowance defaulted in respect of such worker or workers
for the period the amount is due, within the date specified in
such notice.
Failure to
pay sums due
to workers.
Action
against
default of
payment of
the
allowance.

<!-- page 12 -->

11Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers
Act, No. 4 of 2016
(2) The employer shall, upon receipt of such notice under
subsection (1), deposit with the Commissioner-General the
amount indicated in the notice on or before the date specified
in the notice and any payment of allowance to the worker or
workers made by the employer after receipt of such notice
shall not be deemed to be a valid payment of the allowance
in default.
(3) Where an employer fails to make the payment of any
sum he is liable to pay as the allowance under this Act and
contravenes subsection (2), the Commissioner-General shall
issue a certificate containing particulars of the sum so due
and the name and place of residence of the defaulting
employer to the Magistrate having jurisdiction in the
division in which the place of employment of the worker or
workers in respect of whom default is made is situate. The
Magistrate shall, thereupon summon such employer to appear
before him to show cause why further proceedings for the
recovery of the sum due under this Act should not be taken
against him and if such employer fails to appear before court
on the day specified in such summons or sufficient cause is
not shown, as the case may be, such sum shall be deemed to
be a fine imposed by a sentence of the Magistrate on such
employer for an offence punishable with imprisonment and
the provisions of subsection (1) of section 291 [except
paragraphs (a), (d) and (i)] of the Code of Criminal Procedure
Act, No. 15 of 1979 relating to the default of payment of a
fine imposed for such an offence shall thereupon apply and
the  Magistrate may make any direction which by the
provisions of that subsection he could have made at the
time of imposing such sentence.
(4) The correctness of any statement in a certificate issued
by the Commissioner-General for the purpose of this section
shall not be called in question or examined by the court in
any proceedings under this section, and accordingly any
statement in such certificate shall be sufficient evidence to
the facts that the amount due under this Act from the
defaulting employer has been duly calculated and that such
amount is in default.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers
Act, No. 4 of 2016
(5) In any proceedings against any employer under this
section for failure to pay any sum which he is liable to pay
under this Act, the burden of proving that the sum was paid
shall lie on the employer.
12. No prosecution for any offence committed under this
Act shall be instituted except by, or with the previous written
sanction of, the Commissioner-General.
13. (1) Section 3 of this Act shall be deemed for all purposes
to have come into operation on May 1, 2015.
(2)  Where there remains, as on the date of coming into
operation of this Act, any unpaid amount of the allowance
payable by any employer to any worker under subsection (1) or
subsection (2) of section 3 of this Act for the period commencing
on May 1, 2015 and ending on the date on which this Act
comes into operation, and where such employer pays to such
worker such arrears of the allowance in equal monthly
instalments or higher monthly installments within  a period of
twelve months commencing from the date on which this Act
comes into operation, such employer shall for all purposes  be
deemed to have complied with the provisions of subsection (1)
or (2) of section 3 of this Act.
14. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
“Collective Agreement” shall have the same meaning
as in the Industrial Disputes Act (Chapter 131);
 “Commissioner-General” means the person for the
time being holding the office of Commissioner-
General of Labour and includes any person for
the time being holding office as an Additional
Commissioner-General, a Commissioner of
Labour, a Deputy Commissioner of Labour, an
Assistant Commissioner of Labour or a Labour
officer;
Retrospective
effect.
Interpretation.
Conditions
necessary for
the
prosecution
for offences
under this
Act.

<!-- page 14 -->

13Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers
Act, No. 4 of 2016
“employer” means any person who employs or on
whose behalf any other person employs, any
worker and includes a body of employers
(whether such body is a firm, company, local
authority or trade union), and any person
who on behalf of any other person employs
any worker including a competent authority
of a business undertaking vested in the
Government under any written law, the legal
heir, successor in law, executor or
administrator and liquidator of a company
and in the case of an unincorporated body
the president or secretary of such body, and
in the case of a partnership the managing
partner or manager;
“industry or service” includes–
(a) any trade, business, manufacture and
agriculture, any undertaking or
occupation by way of trade, business,
manufacture or agriculture and any
branch or section of trade, business,
manufacture or agriculture;
(b) work or labour of any description
whatsoever performed by persons in
the employment of a local authority,
or of a corporation established by or
under any written law for carrying
on an undertaking whether for
purposes of trade or otherwise;
(c) every occupation, calling or service
of workers, and
(d) every undertaking of employers,
but does not include any industry, business
or undertaking which is carried on by any
corporation, board or other body which was

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers
Act, No. 4 of 2016
or is established by or under any written law
where the Government holds a majority of the
share capital with funds or capital wholly or
partly provided by the Government by way of
grant, loan or otherwise; or any registered
society within the meaning of the Co-operative
Societies Law, No. 5 of 1972;
“wages or salary” means–
(a) the contractual wage or salary of the
worker or the wage prescribed under the
Wages Boards Ordinance (Chapter 136)
for the industry or service to which the
worker belongs; and
(b) wages or basic salary together with the
cost of living allowance, special living
allowance or any other similar
allowance;
“worker” means, any person who has entered into or
works under a contract with an employer in any
capacity, whether the contract is expressed or
implied, oral or in writing and whether it is a
contract of service or of apprenticeship
excluding a contract of apprenticeship covered
under the Tertiary and Vocational Education
Act, No. 20 of 1990 and the Employment of
Trainees (Private Sector) Act, No. 8 of 1978, or
a contrcat personally to execute any work or
labour and includes any person ordinarily
employed under any such contract whether such
person is or is not in employment at any
particular time and includes any person whose
services have been terminated but does not
include a domestic servant.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 16 -->

15Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers
Act, No. 4 of 2016
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .