

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'05'29
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.05.2015
513
wxl 1"917 - 2015 uehs ui 29 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'05'29
No. 1,917 – FRIDAY , MAY 29,  2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 19th June, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 05th  June
2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
Government Printer ( Acting ).
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 470
By-Laws ... ––
Posts - Vacant ...       ––
P
AGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
513
N.B.—  (i)  Part  IV(A)  of the Gazette No. 1,916 of  22.05.2015 was not published.
(ii) The Catalogue of books printed Quarterly in June to September, 2012 was registered under the Printers’ and Publishers’
Ordinance had been Published in Part V of this Gazette in English Language only.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'29
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –29.05.2015
514
Examinations, Results of Examinations, & c.
Provincial Councils Notifications
SOUTHERN  PROVINCIAL  MINISTRY   OF  EDUCATION,  LAND  & LAND DEVELOPMENT,  HIGHWAYS  AND
INFORMATION
Notification under Section 6(1) of the Land Development Ordinance No. 19 of 1935
IT is hereby notified that the Southern Provincial Minister in-charge of the land and land development honorable Chandima Rasap uthra
accordance with the interpretation under Section 2(1) A of the provincial Council (consequential provisions) Act  12 of 1989 has appointed
under mentioned officers as Land Officers with effect from 01st of January 2012 by virture of the powers vested in him by Section 6(1) land
development ordinance No. 19 of 1935 as amended by Act, No. 16 of 1969 on 27of 1981 No. 22 of 1993 No. 09 of 1995 No. 20 of 1996.
Y.  WICKRAMASIRI,
Secretary,
Southern Provincial Ministry of Education,
Land and Land Development, Highways and Information.
09th April, 2015
SCHEDULE
Serial Name of the Officer The Officer to which the Province for which the
No. Office is attached Officer is appointed
01. Koralage Chilani Rukmali Assistant Land Commissioner’s Southern Provincial
Office - Galle
02. Mabotuwana Jagodage Four Gravets - Galle Divisional Southern Provincial
Don Koshala Chaminda Kithsiri Secretariat Office
05-650
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO  THE  POST  OF  APPRENTICE  AYURVEDA
PHARMACIST  (TRAINEE GRADE) OF  THE  NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCIAL  DEPARTMENT  OF
  AYURVEDA - 2015
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the permanent residents (male/female) of the North Western Province who have fulfilled the
following qualifications, for recruitment to the post of Apprentice Ayurveda Pharmacist (Trainee Grade) of the North Western Provincial
Department of Ayurveda.
1. It is notified that this examination will be conducted in an examination centre set up by the North Western Provincial Counci l
Public Service Commission in the city of Kurunegala. The North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission reserves
the right to postpone or to cancel the examination.
2. Salary Scale .– The monthly salary scale applicable to this post in terms of the Public Administration circular 06/2006 (IV) is MT
2/2006A is, Rs. 14,570 - 10x170 - 11x180 - 6x240 -14x320 - Rs.24,170
3. (a) Educational Qualifications  .– Should have passed 06 subjects in one and the same sitting of the General Certificate of
Education (Ordinary Level) Examination with 04 Credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil/English Language, Mathematics/Arithmetic,
Science/Health Science and one other subject.
and

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'05'29
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.05.2015
515
Should have passed 03 subjects including Biology and Chemistry under the new syllabus or Botanical Science and Chemistry
under the Old syllabus of the General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination at the same sitting.
The above educational qualifications should have been completed and obtained the certificates on or before 30.06.2015.
(b) Other qualifications  .–
I. Age limit .— Should be above 18 years and  not more than 30 years. (the upper age limit will not be applicable to those
who are already in the permanent Public/Provincial Public Service).
II. Should be a Sri Lankan Citizen.
III Should be a permanent resident of the territory of the North Western Provincial Council for a period of 03 years to
the closing date of applications. (Permanent residency should be proved by a residency certificate issued by the
Grama Niladhari certified by the Divisional Secretary)
IV . Should have an excellent moral character.
V . Technical Competency/Proficiency
Applicants selected for the appointment should undergo two-year training in Ayurveda Pharmaceuticals at the
Insitute of Indigenous Medicine and should obtain the certificate and get registered with the Ayurvedic Medical
Council as a Ayurveda Pharmacist
Applicants who pass the open competitive examination will  be called for an interview and the selected applicants
will be appointed to the post of Apprentice Ayurveda Pharmacist (Trainee Grade)  by the North Western Provincial
Public Service Commission. Appointees will be directed to the Institute of Indigeneous Medicine to undergo the two
year training programme in Ayurveda Pharmaceutics. They will be paid a monthly salary of Rs. 12,360 during the
training.
VI. Apprentice Ayurveda Pharmacists who obtain the professional qualification by completing the above training
programme will be placed on the initial salary step of the MT2/2006A Salary scale with effect from the date of
obtaining the professional qualification.
4.  Conditions of Service .—
I. This post is permanent and pensionable. Contribution should be made to the Widow/Widowers and Orphans
Pension Scheme.
II. This appointment is subject to a probation period of three years and if the work and the conduct is satisfactory during
the probation period and if the first EB examination is passed and the other requirements fulfilled, the appointment
will be confirmed at the end of the probation period.
III. Provisions of the sections 10 to 12 of the Chapter II of the V olume I of the Establishment Code will be applicable to
the post as appropriate.
IV . The appointees should abide by the regulations of the Establishment Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka, Financial Regulations, Departmental Regulations, Provincial Fiancial Regulations, Provincial Disciplinary
Procedure Code, Regulations of the Governmet and the North Western Provincial Council already issued and will be
issued from to time.
5. Method of Recruitment.— Recruitment will be made through an interview to verify the qualifications where the number of
applications are less than the number of vacancies. Recruitment should be made on the results of an examination conducted by
the North Western Provincial Public Service Commission where the number of applications are higher than the number of
vacancies. 70% of the vacancies will be filled through this examination. A Shortlist in order of merid will be prepared after
selecting the applicants who shall secure at least 40% of marks of above for each and every subject mentioned in the examination
syllabus. Shortlisted applicants will be called for an interview to verify their qualifications according to the order of merit and the
number of vacancies. (marks will not be given at the interview)

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'29
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –29.05.2015
516
6. Examination Procedure .—
     Subjects Time Marks
General Knowledge 02 hours 100
Aptitude test 01 hour 100
Note :
I. These question papers shall be prepared to test the aptitude and the ability of the applicants for official duties.
II. Illegible handwriting and the spelling mistakes will be penalized.
III. 40% of the marks or above should be obtained for each and every subject. Vacancies will be filled according to the
order of merit and the number of vacancies.
IV . Medium of Examination : Applicants must sit all the papers of the examination in one and the same language on their
choice.
7. A sum of Rs. 500 being the examination fee should be paid to the Divisional Secretariat of the area of permanent residence to be
credited to Revenue Head 200-02-13 of Secretary, North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission and the receipt
WPSM/2 obtained from the Divisional Secretariat should be affixed to the application. Receipts other than the receipts obtained
from the Divisional Secretariat or Money Orders will not be accepted and it should be noted that the examination fee is non-
refundable under any circumstance.
8. Method of Application.—
8.1 Applications should be prepared in A4 size (21cm x 29cm) paper using the both sides as per the specimen
application given at the end of this notification. Duly filled applications should be sent under registered cover to
reach  “Secretary, North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission, Provincial Council Complex,
Kurunegala.” The words “Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to the post of Apprentice Pharmacist
(Trainee) - 2015” should be clearly indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the the application.
8.2 Officers who are already serving in the Public or Provincial Public Service should forward their applications through
their Heads of the Department.
8.3 Applications that do not comply with the specimen application form, do not include receipts of  payment of
examination fees before the due date, which are incomplete and received after the closing date will be rejected without
any notice. Further, it is the responsibility of the applicants to make sure that the completed application form
complies with the specimen. Applicants should bear the responsibility of the losses due to non-completion of the
applications accurately. The receipt of the applications will not be acknowledged.
9. Closing date of applications is 30.06.2015.
10. Applications of the candidates who have not fulfilled the qualifications mentioned in this notification will be rejected. Th e
issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite qualifications to sit for the
examination. Originals of the relevant documents to prove the qualifications should be submitted at the interview. It is compulsory
that all the candidates must fulfill all the relevant requirements on or before the closing date of applications.
11. Identity of the applicants .— Every applicant should prove his/her identity by producing the following documents at the
examinations hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor of the examination hall .
1. National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of persons.
2. A valid Passport
Notice :  If the applicants fail to establish their indentity at the examination hall they will be considered disqualified to sit the examination.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'05'29
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.05.2015
517
12. In case the admission for the examination is not received at least 7 days prior to the examination, it should be notified
immediately to the “Secretary, North Western Provincial  Council Public Service commission, Provincial Council Complex,
Kurunegala”. Following details should be furnished when such notification is made.
A. Name of the Examination
B. Full Name of the Applicant
C. Address
D. Address to which the application was sent, registered number and the date.
13. If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his/her candidatuer is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or aft er the
examination. If it is found that ta candidate has furnished false information with knowledge, or if he/she has willfully suppressed
any material fact, he/she shall be liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
14. The decision of the Public Service Commission, North Western Provincial Council is final and conclusive with regard to any
matter related to this notification or any other matter not provided in the notification.
15. The North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission reserves the decision of conducting or not conducting this
examination, filling or not filling the vacancies and the number of vacancies. And also, the North Western Provincial Council
Public Service Commission reserves the right of taking decisions pertaining to the matters not provided in this notification.
By Order of the North  Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission.
K
ANTHI WEHELLA,
Secretary,
North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission.
11th May, 2015.
Provincial Council Public Service Commission (NWP),
Provincial Council Office Complex,
Kurunegala.
Specimen Application Form
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF APPRENTICE PHARMACIST (TRAINEE
GRADE) OF THE NORTH WESTERN PROVINCIAL DEPARTMENT OF AYURVEDA - 2015
Language Medium of examination: Index No.
Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3,  English - 4                      (For official use only)
1. 1.1 Name with Initials at the end :————————————————.
(In Block Letters) Eg.: SILV A  A. B.
1.2 Name in Full (In Block Letters) :————————————————.
1.3 Name in Full (Sinhala/Tamil) :————————————————.
1.4 Permanent Address (In Block Letters) :————————————————.
(admission card will be posted to this address)
1.5 Permanent Address (Sinhala/Tamil):————————————————.
1.6 Gender (Female - 1, Male - 0)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.7 Civil Status (Single - 1, Married - 2)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.8 National Identity Card No.:

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'29
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –29.05.2015
518
2. 2.1 Period of permanent residency in the North Western Province to the date 30.06.2015
Years:——————— Months:——————— Days:———————
2.2 Telephone Number: Private:——————— Residence:———————
3. Date of Birth : Year:——————   Month:—————— Date:——————
3.1 Age as at 30.06.2015 which is the closing date of application:
Years:————— Months:————— Days:—————
3.2 Are you a Citizen of Sri Lanka by Birth?/by Registration ?:——————
4. Educational and other Qualifications
. 4.1 G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination :
First Attempt Second Attempt
Year:————— Index No.:————— Y ear:————— Index No.:—————
Subject Grade Subject  Grade
…………………… …………… …………………… ……………
…………………… …………… …………………… ……………
…………………… …………… …………………… ……………
…………………… …………… …………………… ……………
…………………… …………… …………………… ……………
…………………… …………… …………………… ……………
…………………… …………… …………………… ……………
…………………… …………… …………………… ……………
4.2 The year in which the candidate sat for the G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination and whether it was under the new syllabus
or old
Syllabus:———————
I. Index No. :—————
II. Subject Grade
…………………… ……………
…………………… ……………
…………………… ……………
…………………… ……………
5. Examination Fee Receipt No.:——————————
Date:—————
Divisional Secretariat to which the payment was made :—————
Paste the Receipt inside this cage properly
6. Declaration of the Candidate
I, .…………………………………………hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and
accurate to the best of my knowledge and belief and the receipt No. .……………………dated……………………issued for the payment
of the examination fee is affixed. I also agree to be bound by the rules governing the examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel
my candidature prior to, during or after the examination, if it is found that I am ineligble according to the regulations of this examination.
Further, I agree to be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission with
regard to the conducting of the examination.
——————————,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date:———————

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'05'29
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.05.2015
519
Attestation of the Signature of the Applicant
I do hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs/Miss .………………………………………… is known to me personally and
he/she placed his/her signature before me on .………………………
Name of the Certifying Officer :———————
Signature :———————
Designation and Rubber Stamp :———————
(This certificate should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/a Justice of Peace/Commissioner of Oaths/Attorney-
at-Law/Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces/an officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service or an officer holding a permanent
post in the Public/Provincial Public Service whose annual combined salary is above Rs. 240,360)
Recommendation of the Head of Department for the applicants who are currently serving in the
Public Service or Provincial Public Service
(Delete unnecessary words)
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss.………………………………… is working in this Ministry/Department / Institution in the
post of .……………………………and his/her work and conduct are satisfactory, no disciplinary action pending against her/him, he/she has
been/not been dismissed or sent/not sent on compulsory retirement on inefficiency as a sympathetic alternative, he/she is consi dered/not
considered as a officer who has vacated the post, and he/she can/cannot be released from the service if he/she is selected for a post on the
results of this examination.
——————————————,
Signature of the Head of Department,
(Place the rubber stamp).
Date:———————
05-687
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.