

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1081
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1076
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"068 – 2018 wfm%a,a ui 20 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'04'20
No. 2,068  –  fRiday ,  aPRil 20, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 11th May, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 27th april, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting).
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1073-B 81273- 5,403 (04/2018)
N. B.–   Part iii and iV (a) of the Gazette No. 2,067 of 12.04.2018 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2018
1074
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2018
1075
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2018
1076
Posts – vacant
REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTmENT 
Post of Registrar of marriage, birth and Death
RatNaPuRa diStRict
Notice of caNcellatioN 
tHE calling for applications for the following division which appeared in the notice of calling applications for the post 
of Registrar of Births and deaths in Ratnapura district which was published by me in the Part 1(iia) of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka bearing No. 1978 dated 29.07.2016 is cancelled hereby. 
District Divisional Secretariat Division Post and Division for which application are called
Ratnapura imbulpe Post of Registrar of Births and deaths in Balangoda Base 
Hospital division
 Neil De alwis,
 Registrar General. 
Registrar General's department, 
No. 234/a3, 
denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha, 
Battaramulla, 
03rd april, 2018.
04–672
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTmENT 
Post of Registrar of marriage, birth and Death
RatNaPuRa diStRict 
Notice of caNcellatioN 
tHE calling for applications for the following division which appeared in the notice of calling applications for the post of 
Registrar of Births and deaths and Registrar/additional Registrar of Marriages (Kandyan/General) in Ratnapura district 
which was published by me in the Part 1(iia) of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 
2064 dated 23.03.2018 is cancelled hereby. 
District Divisional Secretariat Division Post and Division for which application are called
Ratnapura Ratnapura Post of Registrar of Marriages (Kandyan/General) in 
Nawadun Koralaya division
 Neil De alwis,
 Registrar General. 
Registrar General's department, 
No. 234/a3, 
denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha, 
Battaramulla, 
03rd april, 2018.
04–671
 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2018
1077
REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTmENT 
 
Post of Registrar of birth and Death
coloMBo diStRict  
 
Notice of caNcellatioN 
tHE calling for applications for the following division which appeared in the notice of calling applications for the post 
of Registrar of Births and deaths in colombo district which was published by me in the Part i(iia) of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka bearing No. 2064 dated 23.03.2018 is cancelled hereby. 
District Divisional Secretariat Division Post and Division for which Application are called
colombo Maharagama Post of Registrar of Births and deaths in apeksha Hospital 
division
 Neil De alwis,
 Registrar General. 
Registrar General's department, 
No. 234/a3, 
denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha, 
Battaramulla, 
03rd april, 2018.
04–673
––––––––––––––––
amendment
REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTmENT 
Amendment of closing date of Applications and marriages Division for Recruitment of Registrar of 
marriage, birth and Death
NuwaRa Eliya diStRict 
IT is kindly notified that the closing date of application for recruitment for the post of Marriage, Birth and Death Registrar, 
for the division appearing in the following Schedule which was published by me in the Gazette No. 2064 of 23.03.2018 is 
extended as 21.05.2018 and also note that the Marriages division should be change as walapane. 
02. Please note that the closing date of applications and the Marriages division only changed all other details in the 
said Gazette Notification remain unchanged.
 
Neil De alwis,
       Registrar General.
  
scheDule
District Divisional 
Secretariat Division
Post and Division for which 
application are called
Address to which Application 
should be sent
Nuwara 
Eliya
walapane Post of Birth and death Registrar of 
Pallegampaha South division and Post 
of Marriages Registrar of walapane 
division (Kandyan/General)
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Nuwara Eliya
 
04–670

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2018
1078
amendment
REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTmENT 
Amendment of Post and Division for which Applications are called for Recruitment of Registrar of 
marriage, birth and Death
GallE diStRict 
IT is kindly notified that the Post and Division for which applications are called for recruitment for the post of Marriage, 
Birth and death Registrar, for the division appearing in the following Schedule which was published by me in the Gazette 
No. 2065 of 29.03.2018 is amended as Post of Birth and death Registrar of Kirindiela division and Post of Marriage 
Registrar of wellabada Pattuwa division (General). 
02. Please note that  all other details in the said Gazette notification remain unchanged. 
District Divisional 
Secretariat Division
Post and Division for which 
applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Galle Gonapinuwala Post of Birth and death Registrar 
of Kirindiela division and Post of 
Marriage Registrar of wellabada 
Pattuwa division (General)
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Galle
 
Neil De alwis,
 Registrar General. 
03rd april, 2018.
04–674
––––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of INTERNAL AffAIRS, 
WAyAmbA DEvELOPmENT AND CuLTuRAL 
AffAIRS
Department of Cultural Affairs
REcRuitMENt to tHE PoSt of daNcER iN tHE 
StatE daNcE ENSEMBlE oN coNtRact BaSiS
aPPlicatioNS are invited from the Sri lankan citizens 
who possess under - mentioned qualifications for making 
recruitment, on contract basis, to the vacancies in the State 
dance Ensemble of the department of cultural affairs.
Duly filled applications, prepared in A4 sheets as per the 
specimen given at the end of this notification should be sent 
to reach the director, department of cultural affairs, 8th 
floor, Sethsiripaya, Battaramulla on or before 31.05.2018 
by registered post, "dancer" (contract Basis) should be 
written on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing 
the application. applications received after the closing date 
will be rejected. this application could also be obtained on 
www.culturaldept.gov.lk.
01. Terms of engagement and Conditions :-
 (i) appointment is made on contract basis for a 
period of 3 years.
 (ii) Salary : a monthly allowance of Rs. 33,600 will 
be paid.
02. Educational and other Qualifications :
 (i) Educational Qualifications :
  Should have passed three subjects (03) including 
Dancing at General Certificate of Education 
(advanced level) Examination 
  and Should have passed the National dancing 
intermediate (Jathika Netum Madyama) or final 
Examination or Nruthya Visharad Examination 
of Bathkande faculty or 
  Should have possessed a degree in dancing 
subject, recognized by the university Grants 
commission.
 (ii) Professional Qualifications :
  Not applicable (Professional Qualifications will 
be considered as an added qualification at the 
interview to test the eligibility)

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2018
1079
 (iii) experience :
  05 years experience as a dancer in an arts School (Kalayathanaya) or an equivalent institution approved by the 
Government ; or 
  should be a traditional dancer (Should be certified in writing)
 (iv) Physical Qualifications :
 (i) Every candidate should physically and mentally fit to perform the duties in the post and to serve in any 
part of the island.
 (ii) Height of the candidate should be not less than 5 feet and 3 inches.
 (v) Other Qualifications :
 (i) Every candidate should possess a good moral character and physically fit.
 (ii) Every candidate should have fulfilled all the requisite qualificatons in every manner as at the date stipulated 
in the advertisement for the recruitment to the post.
 (iii) Proficiency in dancing/playing instruments will be considered.
03. Age Limit.– Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years at the date of closing applications.
04. Method of Recruitment :
 *  Recruitments will be made on the results of an interview to test the eligibility and a Professional test.
 *  twice the number of vacancies existing will be called upon for the Professional test. in order of merit, based on 
the marks, obtained at the interview to test the eligibility, Recruitments will be made in order of merit of the total 
marks obtained both from the interview to test the eligibility and the Professional test.
 interview to test the eligibility
 
Key headings of giving marks Maximum Marks Minimum Marks for Selection
1. Additional Educational Qualifications 20 Not applicable
2. Experience in the relevant field 35 Not applicable
(Should be certified through certificates)
3. Professional Qualifications 25 Not applicable
(i) Should have participated in the events at national level 
under the guidance of veterans in the field.
(ii) Should have participated in performance shows held 
abroad with the veterans or by cultural centers.
4. Language Proficiency 15 Not applicable
5. Skills shown at the interview 05 Not applicable
total 100
 Professional Test :
Key headings of giving marks Maximum Marks Pass Mark
1. competency in Skills 30 15
2. Knowledge on lines, figures and rhythm 20 10
3. appearance (Heigh/Shape) 20 10
4. Special Skills 20 10
5 theoretical Knowledge 10 05
total 100 50

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2018
1080
05. Identity of the candidates.– applications should be 
furnished with correct information on educational and other 
qualifications of the candidate, Only the candidates, who 
have submitted duly filled complete applications, will be 
called upon for the interview to test the eligiblity.
The original certificates and the duly certified copies 
thereof should be submitted at the interview.
the following papers of identity will be accepted in proof 
of identity of the candidates.
 1. National identity card issued by the commissioner 
of Registration of Persons. ,
 2. Valid Passport.
06. Any type of canvassing will be a disqualification.
 
07. if any information contained in the application is found 
to be incorrect the applicant will be liable to disqualifications 
if the inaccurancy is revealed before the selection and to 
dismissal if it is so revealed after the appointment.
08. if there is any inconsistency or mismatch among 
Sinhala, Tamil and English texts in this notification, action 
will be taken as per the Sinhala text.
 aNusha gokula ferNaNDo,
 director,
 department of cultural affairs.
department of cultural affairs,
08th floor, Sethsiripaya,
Battaramulla,
06th april 2018.
specimeN applicatioN form
For Office Use
applicatioN for the post of DaNcer (coNtract basis) 
iN the DepartmeNt of cultural affairs 
01.  Name with initials :––––––––––––.
02. Name denoted by initials  :––––––––––––.
03. date of Birth :––––––––––––.
04. age (as at 31.05.2018) :
  y ears  :––––––––, Months  :–––––––, days  :––––––––.
05. Height :
 feet :––––––––––––.  inches :––––––––––––.
06. National identity card No. :––––––––––––.
07. Sex :––––––––––––.
08. address :––––––––––––.
09. telephone No. :––––––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications :
 (i)  G. c. E. (advanced level)
   y ear :–––––––––––.  index No. :–––––––––––.
  
Year Grade
 (ii)  degree obtained :––––––––––––.
  
effective Date Field University/Institute
 iii. National dancing intermediate (Jathika Netum 
Madyama) or final Examination or Nruthya 
Visharada Examination of Bathkande faculty :
 
effective 
Date
examination 
Passed
University/
Institute
11.  Professional Qualifications :––––––––––––.
12. Experience :––––––––––––.
I hereby confirm that the particulars furnished by 
me in this application are ture and correct to the best of 
my knowledge. i am aware that if it is revealed that any 
information contained in the application is found to be 
incorrect I will be liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy 
is revealed before the selection and dismissal if it is so 
revealed after the appointment.
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the candidate.
date :––––––––––––.
04-797

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2018
1081
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of SkILLS DEvELOPmENT AND 
vOCATIONAL TRAINING 
National Apprentice & Industrial Training 
Authority
iNStitutE of ENGiNEERiNG tEcHNoloGy 
- KatuNayaKE REcRuitMENt of SPEcial 
aPPRENticES iN ENGiNEERiNG foR NatioNal 
diPloMa iN ENGiNEERiNG SciENcES (NdES) 
couRSE 2018 BatcH
aPPlicatioNS are invited from citizens of Sri lanka to 
recruit Special apprentices in Engineering 2018 batch for 
the above course of studies at the institute of Engineering 
technology (iEt), Katunayake.
1. Educational Qualifications for entry.– candidates 
with qualifications mentioned below are eligible to apply.
 1.1 a Pass at the GcE (o/l) Examination in 06 
subjects in one sitting including credit passes for 
Mathematics, Science and language 
And
 1.2 an ordinary pass for English subject at the GcE 
(o/l) Examination for all the courses except 
Marine Engineering course.
  for the Marine Engineering course, credit pass for 
English subject at the GcE (o/l) Examination is 
considered compulsory
 And
 1.3 Passes at the GcE (a/l) in combined Mathematics, 
Physics & chemistry in one sitting.
OR
 1.4 Passes at the GcE (a/l) in combined Mathematics, 
Physics & information & communication 
technology in one sitting.  (it is compulsory to 
have passed the information & communication 
technology as a main subject). 
2.   Age: Between 18 and 25 years as at 31.12.2018
3.  Duration & Course Schedule.– this is a four 
year course, where the 18 Month academic instruction 
Programme is sandwiched with the 30 Month industrial 
training as given below.
Basic instruction Programme at iEt  -  06 Months
Basic industrial training in industry -  12 Months
General instruction Programme at iEt -  06 Months
General industrial training in industry -  12 Months
Specialized instruction Programme at iEt -  06 Months
Specialized industrial training in industry -  06 Months
instruction Programmes consist of theoretical 
instructions & laboratory Practicals conducted at institute 
of Engineering technology.
industrial training Programmes are conducted at 
recognized industrial Establishments.
                                                  
an English course will be conducted at the beginning of 
the course. Participation in this programme is compulsory 
for all selected apprentices for the English course.
4.  courses conducted in the iEt are as follows:
 a.  Civil Engineering Sector
 1. civil - Building & Structural Engineering.  
 2. civil - Highway & Railway Engineering.
 3. civil - water & Environmental Engineering.
 B. Electrical Engineering Sector & Communication 
 
 4. Electrical - Electronics & communication 
Engineering.
 5. Electrical - Electrical Power Engineering. 
 c. mechanical Engineering Sector 
 6. Mechanical - automotive Engineering
 7.  Mechanical - Mechanical General Engineering
 8. Mechanical - Marine Engineering.
 (a) “the Quality Management System of Marine 
Engineering Course of IET is certified for 
iSo 9001:2015 quality Management System.
 (b) in respect of Marine Engineering course, 
the institute is engaged in providing 
academic instructions and industrial 
training Programmes to meet the mandatory 
requirements for knowledge, understanding 
and proficiency in Marine Engineering at 
the operational level related with Stcw  95, 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2018
1082
including its amendments and model course 
7.04 of international Maritime organization 
(iMo) coverage.
5.  medium of Instruction.– all academic programmes 
are conducted in   English. 
6.  Contract of Apprenticeship :
 6.1.  Each selected candidate is required to enter into 
a contract with the training establishment, which 
consists of mutual obligations on both the training 
establishment and the apprentice. at the time of 
registration, students should deposit a sum of  
Rs. 5,000, refundable at the completion of the 
course. The deposit of the students, who are 
leaving the programme within two weeks from 
the date of registration will be refunded. 
 6.2 Sumurdhi beneficiaries are exempted from the 
refundable deposit, on submission of original 
Sumurdhi card with a certified letter from Grama 
Niladari approved by divisional Secretary.
 6.3 all selected students will have to make a non 
refundable payment of  Rs. 1,500 which is  
Rs. 500 as a registration fee and Rs. 1,000 for 
library development fund. 
 6.4 there is no guarantee of employment at the end of 
the training period.
 6.5 all the students registered for the above courses, 
should maintain a minimum requirement of 
attendance specified by the Institute for each 
subject during the course period. those who fail 
to meet this requirement are not allowed to sit for 
the examinations and evaluations and they have to 
leave the course.  
7.  Award of Certificates.– National diploma in 
Engineering Sciences Certificate will be awarded on 
successful completion of all examinations, evaluations and 
on clearance of all obligations. 
8.  Selection Criteria :
 8.1 all applicants who have the minimum entry 
qualifications as stated in para 1 and within the age 
limit mentioned in para 2 above, would be eligible. 
Selections will be done as given below.
 8.2  those candidates who are eligible will be required 
to sit for a written aptitude test in the English 
medium.(Eligible candidates will be informed in 
advance)
 8.3 limited number of applicants will be called for 
an interview depending on the merit order of the 
written test.
 8.4 Applicants are finally selected, based on the written 
test marks and the    interview marks.
 8.5 Those who are selected for the Course will 
have to appear for a medical test at their own 
expenses before the registration.  (Those who 
are selected for marine Engineering Course will 
have to appear again for a special medical test at 
their own expenses after the registration). 
9. Applications :
 9.1 Certified copies by school principal of educational 
qualifications {GCE (O/L) & GCE (A/L)} must be 
attached with the application. applications without 
copies of educational certificates will be rejected. 
Photocopies of the G.C.E. O/L & A/L certificates 
shall be verified by the department of examination.
the charges should be paid by the applicants who 
will be selected for the registration.
 9.2 all applicants should pay a non-refundable 
examination fee as follows :
 (a) if the application is purchased from any 
branch of National apprentice & industrial 
training authority by paying Rs. 200, need to 
pay additional payment of Rs. 550.
 (b) if the application is downloaded from the 
website or obtained by any other means, the 
payment should be of Rs. 750.
 9.3 the Pay-in-Slip needs to be duly perfected with the 
following:
 (i) branch Code and Account No: 276-1-001-
8-6351396.
 (ii) Credit Instruction: to the credit of National 
apprentice & industrial training authority 
collection account No.  276-1-001-8-
6351396. at People’s bank, katunayake.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2018
1083
 (iii) Name & the address of the applicant.
 9.4 applications & additional information can be 
obtained from iEt web site (www.iet.edu.lk) 
 9.5 application forms could be collected from the 
Registrar, institute of Engineering technology, 
temple Road, Katunayake on payment of Rs.200 
in cash, or by post by sending a money order for 
Rs.200 with a self-addressed stamped envelope (size 
9”x4”) to the Registrar, institute of Engineering 
technology, temple Road, Katunayake  up to 
04th May, 2018. the above Money order should 
be drawn in favour of the accountant, institute of 
Engineering technology, payable at Katunayake 
Post Office. (( 011-2252833 / 011-2252834 / 011-
2254667)
 9.6 applicants are advised not to purchase applications 
from private institutes, other than the National 
apprentice and industrial training authority 
(Naita). 
 9.7 Duly filled application forms, should be sent under 
registered cover to reach the Director / Principal, 
Institute of Engineering Technology, Temple 
Road, katunayake along with the Pay-in-Slip 
duly signed by an Authorized officer of the Bank, 
on or before 31st may, 2018 “Recruitment of 
Special apprentices – 2018” should be mentioned 
in the left hand corner of the envelope. late 
applications or applications forwarded by hand 
will not be accepted.
 9.8 those who have followed or are following diploma 
or degree level full time courses of studies in a 
Government technical institute or university are 
not eligible to apply.
 9.9 Receipt of the applications will not be 
acknowledged. 
 9.10 application forms also could be obtained from the 
following offices of the National Apprentice & 
industrial training authority up to 31st may, 2018 
on payment of Rs.200 in cash.
 (i) National apprentice and industrial 
training authority, 971, Sri 
Jayewardenepura Mawatha, w elikada, 
Rajagiriya. 011-2888782-7
 (ii) industrial Engineering training institute, 
581, Galle Road, Katubedda,     Moratuwa 
011-2647393/011-2643356
 (iii) automobile Engineering training 
institute, 69/a, denister de Silva 
Mawatha, orugodawatta, w ellampitiya 
011-2572977 / 011-2532182
 (iv) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No. 10/4" Malwatta 
Road, Badulupitiya. Badulla. 055-
2230644
 (v) National apprentice & industrial training 
authority, No:642" Vidyala Road, New 
town, Ratnapura. 045-2228667
 (vi) National apprentice & industrial training 
authority, 27 a, open university Road, 
Nupe, Matara. 041-2226958
 (vii) National apprentice & industrial training 
authority, No.108/2B, thiwankaBodhi 
Mawatha, Kandy. 081-2201918
 (viii) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, airport Road, 
anuradhapura 025-2223178
 (ix) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, Negombo Road, 
Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala. 037-
2223789
 (x) National apprentice & industrial training 
authority, No:44 Somasundaram Road, 
chundikkuli, Jaffna. 021-2222383
 
 (xi) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No.07, G S lane, 
Kalmunaikudi 13, Kalmunai. 067 – 
2229357
 (xii) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No. 242, Havelock 
Road, colombo 05. 011-2597671/011-
2587258
 (xiii) National apprentice and industrial 
training authority, 326/2,Main Street, 
Kaluthara South 034-2224239

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2018
1084
 (xiv) National apprentice & industrial training 
authority, No. 61/5,          Minuwangoda 
Road, Gampaha. 033-2232874
 (xv) National apprentice & industrial training 
authority, Molawatta Medagama 
Road,Madampe. 032-2248250
 (xvi) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No:103, irrigation 
Place, New town, Polonnaruwa.  027-
2223023
 (xvii) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, Kachcheri complex, 
Monaragala.  055-2276504
 (xviii) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No.116, Kovila 
Road, Haawa Eliya, Nuwara Eliya. 052-
2223702
 (xix) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No. 11, temple Road, 
Mandandawala, Matale. 066-2223173
 (xx) National apprentice & industrial training 
authority, S.w .R.d.Bandaranayake 
Mawatha, Ballapana, Galigamuwa town, 
Kegalle. 035-2284931
 (xxi) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No.395, wakwella 
Road, Julgaha, Galle.  091-2235628
 (xxii) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No. 39, Pallikkudawa 
Road, tangalle.  047-2241512
 (xxiii) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority,Mankulam Road, 
Mulliyawalai, Mulathivu. 021-2061012
 (xxiv) National apprentice & industrial training 
authority, a9 Road, anandapuram, 
Kilinochchi. 021-2285615
 (xxv) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No. 103/7, Post 
Office Road, Trincomalee. 026-2226569
 (xxvi) National apprentice & industrial training 
authority, No 294, Nochchimunei, 
Batticaloa. 065-2228130
 (xxvii) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, off park Road , 
Vavuniya. 024-2224679
(xxviii) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No. 952/1, old Moor, 
Street, Nallayar Street, Mannar.  023-
2223404
10. the institute of Engineering technology will not 
be responsible for any delay or loss of applications in the 
mail. therefore, the candidates are requested to post their 
applications well ahead in time to avoid delays.
 shehaN seNevirathNe, 
 chairman,
 National apprentice & industrial  
 training authority.
No. 971, Sri Jayewardenepura Mawatha,
welikada,
Rajagiriya.
04–564
–––––––––––––––
AL ALIm CERTIfICATE ExAmINATION
i. (a) i hereby announce that the regulation and syllabus for 
the al alim Examination proclaimed by the commissioner 
General of Examination on 20th of 2012 to be implemented 
in 2013 and there in after as revised as mentioned in this 
notification.
II.  The Scheme of Al Alim Certificate Examinations - 
2013 and there after The above Examination will be 
held in two levels
 (1) Al Alim Muthawassitha Certificate Examination
(2) Al Alim Sanaviyya Certificate Examination
General conditions, rules and regulations for the 
above two examinations
1. the above examinations will be condcted annually by 
the commissioner General of Examinations on behalf of and 
on the advice of the Secretary to the Ministry of Education. 
whenever the commissioner General of Examinations 
deems it to be necessary he may consult the director, 
department of Muslim Religious and cultural affairs.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2018
1085
2. Al Alim certificate Examination has been held since 
2016.
3. Medium of Instruction.– this examination will be 
conducted in arabic language. Except the translation 
questions all other questions must be answered in arabic 
language. the candidate should select only one of Sinhala, 
tamil and English languages to answer the translation 
questions.
4. Qualifications :
 4.1  those who have completed three years of 
study in an arabic college registered with 
the department of Musim Religious and 
cultural affairs are eligible to sit for al - 
Alim Muthawassitha Certificate Examination 
while those who have completed five years of 
study are eligible to sit for al alim Sanaviyya 
Certificate Examination.
or 
 4.2  if the Principal of such an arabic college 
considers that a student studying in the arabic 
college is eligible to sit for the examination, 
then that student can sit for any one of the 
above two examinations. Both these category 
of students described under 4.1 and 4.2 can 
sit for the examination as arabic collegiate 
candidates.
 4.3  those who are not following a course of study 
in an arabic college also can sit for these 
examinations as private candidates but they can 
apply only through an arabic college.
 4.4  a candidate who passes the al alim 
Muthawassitha Certificate Examination is 
eligible to sit for Al Alim Sanaviyyah Certificate 
Examination.
 4.5  a candidate who has not passed al alim 
Muthawassitha certificate Examination cannot 
apply for Al Sanaviya Certificate Examination.
05. application forms and instructions will be sent by 
post to the arabic colleges registered with the department of 
Examinations for the purpose of these examinations. those 
arabic colleges which do not receive the application forms 
and instructions must contact the "commissioner General 
of Examinations, organization and foreign Examinations 
Branch, department of Examinations, Pelawatta, 
Battaramulla" to obtain the application forms.
 5.1  applications should be prepared in duplicate 
and one copy should be sent to the department 
of Examinations and the other copy must be 
filed in the Arabic college.
 5.2  Forms of application must be clearly filled 
without errors. incomplete or late applications 
will be rejected.
 5.3  Closing date for the applications will be notified 
by means of press gazette notifications or when 
calling for application.
 5.4  completed application forms must be sent by 
registered post to the following address.
  commissioner General of Examinations,
  organization and foreign Examinations Branch,
  National Examination and testing Service
  department of  Examinations,
  P.o. Box 1503,
  colombo.
06. examination Fee :
6.1 Fresh (first attempt) Arabic collegiate candidates will 
not be levied a fee, candidates applying for a second or later 
attempt and all private candidates must pay examination fee.
6.2 Method of Payment.– the fee must be paid at a post 
office and the receipt obtained should be attached to the 
application form.
from time to time, the amount and the mode of payment 
of the examination fee will be notified by the Department of 
Examinations.
07. admission cards for the examination will be 
distributed through the principals of the relevant arabic 
colleges.
 7.1  Each candidate must submit the admission card 
to the exam supervisor on the first instance he/
she appears for the examination. failing to do 
so, will result in loosing the candidature.
 7.2  candidate's signature on the admission card 
must be attested by the Principal of the relevant 
arabic college.
08. Identity of Person.– Each candidate must submit any 
one of the following for personal identification :

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2018
1086
(a) National identity card
(b) a valid pass port.
09. towns where Examination centres will be 
Established.
 (i)  Eastern Province t rincomalee, Batticaloa,  
  Kalmunai, akkaraipattu.
 (ii)  western Province colombo, Gampaha,   
  Kalutara
 (iii)  Southern Province Galle, Matara.
 (iv)  North western  Puttalam, Kurunegala.
  Province
 (v) central Province Kandy, Matale, Nuwara  
  Eliya
 (vi)  North central anuaradhapura,    
Province  Polonnaruwa
 (vii)  uva Province Badulla, Monaragala
(viii)  Sabaragamuwa Mawanella, Ratnapura, 
  Province  Kegalle
 (ix)  Northern Province Vavuniya, Mannar, Jaffna
In case of insufficient number of applicants for a town, the 
examination centre there will be shifted to the nearest town. 
the commissioner General of Examinations, according to 
his discretion may or may not establish examination centres 
in the above towns or elsewhere.
10. Re Scrutiny of Answer Scripts.– application for 
re scrutiny will be accepted  within 30 days from the date 
of releasing the results. application should be made 
according to the specimen form issued by the department 
of Examinations through the principal of the relevant arabic 
college in respect of both the collegiate and the private 
candidates. a fee must be paid and will be refunded only if 
the results get changed.
11. Al Alim Muthawassitha Certificate Examination 
(year 2013 and thereafter)
Details of examination.– this examination consists of six 
question papers, one for each of the following six subjects. 
Each question. paper will be of 3 hours duration.
 1.  al lukathul arabiyyah arabic language and 
wal adhab - 1  literature - 1
 2.  al Qur'anul Kareem al Qur'anul Kareem
 3.  al Hadhees Nabavi Sayings of the Prophet
 4.  al fikhul islami islamic law
 5.  ath tharbiya al islamiyya islamic code of Ethics
 6.  aththareekul islami islamic History
12. Syllabus :
1. al lukathul arabiyyah wal adhab - 1 arabic language 
and literature - 1
ability to organize and express opinion and thought will 
be tested. Translation of unspecified texts, Essay writing, 
Grammar and Studies on language also will be tested.
Prescribed Text Books :
 (a)  al arbiyathul linnashi'een Section 1,2,3 : Mahmud 
ismail Zeeni, Nasib Mustapha abdul azeez, 
Mukthar, thahir Hussain.
 (b)  Majmoo athunnahv - the sections of Meezan, 
ajnas, thaqweemullisan, al awamil
 (c)  Mudhammimadhul aajooroomiyya - Muhhammath 
ibnu Muhammath arraeeni.
 (d)   annahuwul wadhih al Marhala al ifthithayiah 
Juz'u 1,2,3 : ali Jasim, Mustafa ameen
2. Al Quran ul Kareem.– Memorization of Juz'u amma, 
General understanding of al Qur'an including translation, 
concise meaning and understanding of rules of thajweedh.
Prescribed Text Books :
 (a) Hidhayathul Musthabeeth - as Sheikh 
Mahmoothul Mahmooth
 (b) thafseer al Jalalaine - imam Jalaluddeen 
assuyoothi
3. al Hathees un Nabavi - Sayings of the Prophet
 -  General understanding of Hathees as the 
fundamental source of law
 -  Meanings of Hathees
 -  Memorizing specified Hathees and
 -  Hathees in relation to law will be tested in this 
question paper.
Prescribed Text Books :
 (a) al arbaoonan Navaviya - imam Navavi (rah)
 (b) Sathuth thalibeen - Moulana Muhammadh ashik 
llahi
4. Al Fikh ul Islami - Islamic Law :
* Knowledge and understanding of islamic law and
* ability to draw legal solutions for issues arising at 
periodically of time will be tested in this paper.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2018
1087
Prescribed Text book :
 Madnu abeeshujah - al Qali abi Shujah ahmadh 
ibnu Hussain ahamadh al isfahani.
5. Ath Tharbiya Al Islamiyyah - Islamic Code of ethics.
Knowledge of islamic Practices, islamic ethics and 
islamic conduct will be tested in this question 
paper.
Prescribed Text books :
tha'leemul Mutha'allim - Burhanul islam as sarnooji
Hisnul Muslim - Sa'eedh ibnu ali ibnuwahb al Kahdhani
6. Ath Thareekul Islami - Islamic History :
understanding of Jahileeya Period,
the History of Muhammed (Sal) from his birth to 
wafath and 
Kulafaur Rashidun - their characters, achievements, 
administration and expansion of rule
Prescribed Text book :
 tharikhul islami - Hassan ibrahim Hassan
13. Structure of the question papers.– there are two parts 
in each question paper.
Part 1 - consists of 10 structured questions for which 
short answers are expected. all ten questions must 
be answered. Each answer carries 4 marks. 40 
marks are allocated for this part.
Part 11 - one essay type question and six semi 
structured questions are included in this part of 
the paper. Essay type question is compulsory and 
carries 20 marks. out of the six semi structured 
questions, selected four should be answered. Each 
of these questions contain two parts a and B which 
carry 5 marks each making the marks allocated for 
each questions 10.
14. Criteria for a Pass in the examination.– while total 
marks for each paper is 100, minimum of 35 should be 
obtained for a pass. Grades will be awarded as shown below.
 Marks  Grades
 00-34 w
 35-49 S
 50-64 c
 65-74 B
 75-100 a
those who pass in all six subjects in al alim 
Muthawassitha Certificate Examination and at least in six 
subjects including language (Sinhala, tamil or English) 
and Mathematics in the G.c.E. (o/l) examination is 
eligible to obtain Al Alim Muthawassitha Certificate from 
the department of Examinations. But the department of 
Examinations will not issue individual result sheets to all 
the candidates.
15. Release of examination Results and Criteria for 
pass.– those who pass in all six subjects in al alim 
Muthawassitha Certificate Examination are considered to 
have passed the Examination. those who pass in all but 
one subject are considered as deferred candidates. if the 
candidate completes the deferred subject in any one of 
the two immediately succeeding examination diets such 
candidate will also be considered to have passed the al alim 
Muthawassitha Certificate Examination.
To obtain Al Alim Muthawassitha Certificate, a candidate 
should pass in the above Examination as well as the G.c.E. 
(o.l.) Examination conducted by the department of 
Examinations in six subjects including language (Sinhala, 
tamil or English) and Mathematics. the department will 
issue  Al Alim Muthawassitha Certificate only to those who 
have passed in both of these Examinations. a candidate can 
obtain the certificate by properly applying to the Department 
of Examinations.
16. Al Alim Sanaviyyah Certificate Examination (year 
2015 and thereafter)
Details of examination.– this examination consists of six 
question papers, one for each of the following six subjects. 
Each question paper will be of 3 hours duration.
 1. al lukathul arabiyyah arabic language and  
 wal adhab - ii literature - ii
 2. al Qur'an wa'ulumuhu the Qur'an and its  
   sciences
 3. al Hadhees  wa'ulumuhu Hathees and its sciences
 4. al fikh ul islami  islamic law and its 
wausuluhu  fundamentals
 5. al Hazharathul islamiyya islamic civilization
 6. al akeedhathul islamiyya islamic theology
17. Syllabus :
 1.  al lukathul arabiyyah wal adhab - ii    
arabic language and literature - ii
ability to organize and express thoughts and ideas, 
ability to translate from arabic to Sinhala/Engilsh / tamil 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2018
1088
and knowledge in arabic grammar at the level given on 
the book lynul Hudha fisharhikathrinnadha will be tested. 
translation passages not given on the text book, translation 
of Sinhala/English /t amil texts into arabic language and 
features of literature given on the text book will also be tested.
Prescribed Text book :
 (a) al arbiyathul linnashi'een volumes 4,5,6 - : 
Mahmoodh ismail Zeeni, Nasir Mustapha 
abdul azeez, Mukthar thahir Hussain.
 (b) al Qira'athur Rshidha volume - 3 (lessons 1-15) 
abul Hassan ali (Nadhvi)
 (c) an Nahwul walih al Marhala (Sanaviyyah) 
1,2,3 ali Jasim, Mustafa ameen.
 (d) lynul Hudha be Sharahikathrinnatha - assheik 
udman ali fannani.
 (e) al falakathul wadhiha (Kismul bayan wal 
bathee'u) ali Jasim, Mustafa ameen.
2. al Qur'an waulumuhu (the Qur'an and its Sciences). 
-Detailed knowledge of the contents of specified Surahs and 
comprehension of the Sciences of Quran will be tested.
Prescribed Text books :
 (a) Safwathuth thabasir - Muhammed ali assabooni 
Surha al Mulk, al waqia, an Noor, al Hujrath, 
al Kahfu and Sura yaseen
 (b) aththibyan fi ulumil Qur'an - Muhammed ali 
assabooni
3. al Hadhees wa ulumuhu - Hathees and its Sciences.– 
Hathees given in the prescribed text books, their content and 
application and effects of these in practical life will be tested. 
technical terms related to Hadhees and their understanding; 
Knowledge of studies and contribution made by forefathers 
in order to safeguard Hadhees will also be tested.
Prescribed Text books :
 (a) Buloohul Maram - ibnu hajar al askalani 
(chapters from thahara to Nikah)
 (b) Mishkathul Masabeeh - al imam waliyudeen 
aboo abdullah Muhammath ibnu abdullah 
al Katheeb (Rah) (the following parts, al 
iman, al ihthisam bil kethabi was sunnah, al 
llmu, fala'ilul Qur'an, al adhab, al fithan, al 
Manaqib)
 (c) thaiseer Mustalahil Hadhees - Mahmood 
aththahan
4. Al Fikh ul Islami Wusooluhu - islamic law and 
its fundamentals.– Based on the Prescribed text books, 
knowledge of Fikh and Usoolul fikh and understanding of 
the way it is practiced in practical life will be tested.
Prescribed Text books :
 (a) umthathussalik wauthathunnasik - imam 
Shahabudeen ahamed ibnu anna keeb 
ashshafeei.
 (b) Sharahul warakath bee llmi usoolil fikhi 
- Jalalu deen Muhammath ibnu ahamed 
Almahalli Ashshafie 
 (c) thasheelul wusool lla fahmi llmi usool.
5. Al hazharathul Islamiyya - Islamic civilization.– Based 
on the prescribed text books islamic History from the period 
of umaiya Qilafath upto the fall of usmaniya Qilafath, and 
about the development of islamic civilization will be tested.
Prescribed Text book :
aththarikul islami - ibrahim bin mahmooth abdurrali
6. Al Akeedhathul Islamiyyah - islamic theology
Knowledge and understanding of islamic akeedha 
and application of it in day to day life will be tested 
based on the prescribed text book.
Prescribed Text book :
Jawharathuth thawheedh - al imam lbrahim al - 
likayi or
akeedathut thahaweyyah - al imam aboo Jawfar 
ahamath ibnu Salma aththahavi
18. Structure of Question paper.– Each question paper 
consists of two parts (part 1 and part 11)
Part1: all Questions in part 1 are compulsory. Each of 
the 10 short answer type questions in this part 
will carry four marks, making total marks for 
this part forty.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2018
1089
Part 11: one essay type question and six semi 
structured questions are there in this part. Essay 
type question is compulsory and carries twenty 
marks. Selected four questions from the six 
semi structured questions should be answered . 
Each question has two parts a and b. Each of this 
part carry 5 marks making the total marks for a 
question ten and the total for part ii sixty.
19. Criteria for a Pass in the examination.– total marks 
for each paper is 100. Pass marks is 40.
those who pass in all six subjects in this exam is 
considered to have passed this exam. a candidate who 
passes in five subjects but fails only in the sixth subject 
is considered as a referred candidate. if such a candidate 
passes in the failed subject in one of the two immediately 
succeeding examination diets he/she will also be considered 
to have passed in this examination.
Grades will be awarded as shown below.
 Marks  Grades
 00-39 w
 40-54 S
 55-64 c
 65-74 B
 75-100 a
Certificate.– Al Alim Sanaviyyah certificate will be 
issued to those who pass both in al alim Sanaviyyah 
Certificate Examination and any Three subjects excluding 
General English and common General test in G.c.E. (a.l.) 
Examination conducted by the department of Examinations. 
This certificate can be obtained by promptly applying to 
the department of Examinations. However all those who 
sit for in al alim Sanaviyyah Examination will be issued 
individual result sheets. the G.c.E. (a/l) examination is 
conducted by the department of Examinations,  Sri lanka. 
the candidate can sit for the examination according to the 
rules and regulations governing that examination.
Release of the examination results and Criteria for pass.– 
those who pass in all six subjects in al alim Sanaviyyah 
Certificate Examination are considered to have passed 
the Examination. those who fail only in one subject are 
considered as referred candidates. if the candidates passes 
the failed subject within two immediately succeeding 
examination diets he/she will also be considered to have 
passed in the al alim Sanaviyya Examination.
20 if any discrepancies are found between the Sinhala, 
tamil and English version of this examination Scheme, the 
tamil language version should be considered as the right 
one.
21 the decision of the commissioner General of 
Examinations will be final in any matter that is not mentioned 
herein.
 B.
 saNath pujitha,
 commissioner General of Examinations.
department of Examinations
P.o. Box 1503
colombo 
date : 26th of March 2018
04-582
–––––––––––––––
OPEN COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION 
fOR RECRuITmENT TO CLASS 3 GRADE 
III Of SRI LANkA INfORmATION AND 
COmmuNICATION TEChNOLOGy 
SERvICE - 2018
1.0 aPPlicatioNS are hereby called from qualified 
citizens of Sri lanka for the open competitive examination 
for recruitment to the post in class 3 Grade iii of Sri lanka 
information and communication technology Service.
2.0 Candidates who satisfy the prescribed qualifications 
shall be selected on merit, on the results of a written 
examination to be conducted by the commissioner General 
of Examination to the posts in class 3 Grade iii the Sri lanka 
information and communication technology Service.
3.0 The total number of vacancies to be filled is 911. 
Effective date of appointments shall be determined by 
the director General of combined Services. further, the 
director General of combined Services reserves the right to 
decide the number of vacancies filled.
4.0 Three percent (3%) from the vacancies to be filled 
shall be reserved for persons with disabilities. only 3% 
of the persons with disabilities who secure highest marks 
in the examination out of those who get qualified at the 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2018
1090
examination shall be selected for appointments. the 
minimum level of marks candidates should secure to be 
selected for appointments is 50% from total marks. a 
candidates selected for an appointment shall be referred to 
a Special Medical Board and, by a report obtained from a 
medical specialist; he/she should establish the disablement 
and the fact that, it does not hinder performance of duties of 
the respective post.
5.0 Salary :- Monthly salary scale entitled to grade 3 - iii, 
3 - ii and 3-i of Sri lanka information and communication 
technology Service as per Public administration circular 
No. 03/2016 (Mt-01-2016) dated 25.02.2016 is Rs. 29,840 
- 10x300 - 11x350 - 10x560 - 10x660 - 48,890/-.
Note.– your shall be entitled to the salary from 01.01.2020 
until then, salary shall be paid as per the provisions of 
Schedule ii of the above circular.
6.0 this post is permanent. the pension scheme entitled 
to the officers appointed to Class 3, Grade III of Sri Lanka 
information and communication technology Service from 
this examination shall be determined on the policy decision 
made by the government in future.
7.0 Qualifications.– Following qualifications are 
applicable for recruitment to class 3 Grade iii of Sri lanka 
information and communication technology Service :
 (a)  Should be a citizen of Sri lanka.
 (b)  Should be not less than 18 years and not more 
than 35 years of age on the closing date of 
applications. (accordingly, only whose birth 
day falls on or before 21.05.2000 and on or after 
21.05.1983 shall be eligible to apply for this)
 (c)  Should be of good character and sound physical 
health.
 (d)  Should be bound to serve in any part of the island
 (e)  Educational qualifications :
 (1)  Shall have passed six (06) subjects with 
five (05) credit passes including Language, 
Mathematics and English language at the 
G.c.E. (ordinary level) examination at one 
sitting.
 (f)  Professional Qualifications :
 (a) Shall have followed and completed a 
diploma /Higher diploma or any other 
course at Higher level relevent to computer 
Scienc/information technology/information 
and communicationt echnology from a 
university recognized by the university 
Grants commission or a degree awarding 
institute recognized by the university 
Grants commission.
or
 (b) Shall have followed and completed a 
diploma or higher course or a course 
of which the duration is not less than 
1500 hours in the field of Computer/
information technology/information 
and communication technology which 
is recognized by the university Grants 
commission.
or
 (c) Shall have completed, obtained following 
qualifications from an institution recognized 
by t ertiary and V ocational Education 
commission or a statutory institution, which 
has been established by an act Passed by the 
Parliament.
 (1) National V ocational Qualification 
(NVQ) five  (05) or higher NVQ 
certificate in the field or Computer/
information technology/information 
and communication technology.
  or
 (2) A course in the field of Computer/
information technology/information 
and communication technology of 
which the duration is not less than 
1500 hours.
Note :- it is compulsory for every applicant to satisfy 
all the qualification relevant to the post on or before 
the closing date of applications.
8.0 Scheme of the examination :-
 8.1 the examination shall consist of two papers. 
this examination shall be held in Sinhala, tamil 
or English medium. candidates shall not be 
allowed to change the language medium applied 
once it is selected.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2018
1091
 8.2 Subjects and the marks allocated for each subject 
are mentioned below.
  Marks Duration 
   (Hour/s)
 (i) information and communication 100 2
  t echnology 
 (ii) aptitude test 100 1
  t otal Marks 200 
Information and Communication Technology Written 
Test.– the paper shall consists of structured and multiple 
choice questions to measure the general Knowledge of the 
candidate on information and communication technology, 
knowledge on operational systems/software/hardware, web 
and other system analysis, design, testing, implementation 
and maintenance, knowledge on creating and maintaining 
database, knowledge on network management, knowledge 
on fields such as internet and e-mail. All the questions 
should be answered.
Aptitude test.– this paper consists of questions to test 
statistical ability and logical reasoning of the candidate. it 
consists of 50 multiple choice questions and questions for 
short answers and all the questions should be answered.
Note :- these question papers shall be designed to test 
the eligibility and ability of the candidate for the 
duties of the service. although this is a competitive 
examination, candidates should secure at least forty 
percent (40%) of the marks allocated for each subject 
and an aggregate of at least fifty percent (50%) of 
the total marks of the examination. Marks shall be 
deducted in every written paper for illegible hand 
writing and spelling mistakes. appointments shall 
strictly be made in the order of the marks scored, 
depending on the number of vacancies set apart to be 
filled on the results of the competitive examination.
 8.3 the result sheet containing the name list of 
candidates, who have passed the examination and 
equivalent to the number of vacancies expected to 
be filled, shall be issued to the Director General 
of combined Services by the commissioner 
General of Examination. in addition to the above, 
the commissioner General of Examination shall 
issue personally to all the candidates a result sheet 
containing the marks for each subject, total marks 
or published in the website of the department of 
Examinations www.results.exams.gov.lk.
 9.0 Penalty for furnishing false information.– the 
candidate should be very careful to include the correct 
particulars in the application. if it is found that any candidate 
is not eligible according to the rules and regulations of this 
examination his/her candidature can be cancelled at any 
time before, during or after the examination. further, if it 
is found that any information furnished by a candidate is 
false he/she is liable to dismissal at any time from the public 
service.
 10.0 examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 500. 
this fee can be paid to any divisional or district Secretariat 
under the head 2003.02.13 of the commissioner General of 
Examination. The receipt obtained should be affixed in the 
relevant cage of the application so as not to be detached. 
(a photo copy of the receipt should be kept for further 
reference.) under no circumstances the examination fee 
shall be refunded and money orders and stamps are not 
accepted.
 11.0 (i) Applications.– applications should be prepared 
in the following manner using papers of size a4 (21 x 29 
cm) :
 (a)  Cages from 01 to 03 should appear on the first 
side of the page.
 (b)  cages from 04 onwards should appear on the 
other pages. the application should be prepared 
using both sides of the paper and it should be 
perfected in the language medium in which the 
candidate sits for the examination.
 (c)  the title of the examination appearing in the 
specimen should be indicated in English language 
as well, on both Sinhala and tamil application 
forms.
applications which are incomplete and not prepared 
in accordance with the specimen form shall be rejected 
without any notice. applications of those who haven't paid 
examination fee on or before due date shall also be rejected. 
candidates should be responsible for any loss incurred by 
them due to incomplete applications. it would be advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the completed application form and 
it is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the 
application form perfected by himself/ herself complies with 
the specimen given in the examination notice. otherwise, 
the application could be rejected.
 (ii) the town and number of the town in which the 
applicant wishes to sit for the examination as per Schedule 
1 shall be indicated as first and second choice on the order 
of preference. candidates are not allowed to change the 
town in which they apply to sit for the examination. at the 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2018
1092
instances where the number of candidates apply for a certain 
town, is not sufficient to maintain an examination center, 
they shall be directed to the town which they have indicated 
as second preference. If there is no sufficient number of 
candidates even at the second center, the  candidates shall be 
directed to an adjoining city. However, the commissioner 
General of Examination shall take action to conduct the 
examination only in colombo if it is found that there is no 
sufficient number of applicants at all or most of examination 
centers.
 11.1 all applicants who have paid prescribed 
examination fees and forwarded their 
applications on or before the prescribed date 
shall be allowed to sit for the competitive 
examination, by the commissioner General of 
Examinations, on the presumption that only 
those who possess qualifications as indicated in 
the Gazette Notification have forwarded their 
applications. issuance  of an admission card to a 
candidate to sit for the competitive examination 
does not mean to have accepted that he possesses 
all the qualifications for this post. If it was 
found at the interview that the applicant does 
not possess the required qualifications as per the 
Gazette Notification, his or her candidature shall 
be cancelled.
 11.2 the words "open competitive Examination for 
Recruitment to the Posts in class 3 Grade iii 
of Sri lanka information and communication 
technology Service - 2018" should be written 
on the top left - hand corner of the envelope in 
which the application is enclosed.
 11.3  candidates' signature in the application form 
should have been attested by a principal of a 
Government School, a Justice of the Peace, 
commissioner for oaths Notary Public 
Commissioned Officer in the armed forces, an 
officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police 
Service or an Officer holding a permanent post 
in the Public Service whose annual Salary is                  
Rs. 240,360 or above.
 11.4 applications duly perfected should be sent by 
registered post to reach the following address on 
or before 21st of May 2018.
   commissioner General of Examinations
  organization and overseas Examinations Branch 
department of Examinations, Sri lanka
  Po. Box 1503, 
  colombo.
 12.0 Sitting for the examination.– A notification shall be 
published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are 
issued to the candidates. if the admission card is not received 
even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should 
be taken to notify the department of Examinations in the 
manner specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable 
to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the 
Department of Examinations. i. e. certified photocopies of 
the application form and the receipt kept at your possession, 
receipt of registration and, in case of applicants outside 
colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which 
the admission card should be sent.
 13.0 candidates should furnish one of the following 
documents to the Supervisor of Examination in support of 
their identity.
 (i) National identity card issued by the department 
for Registration of Persons.
 (ii) a valid Passport.
 14.0 candidates shall be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examination for the purpose of conducting examinations 
and they shall be liable to be subjected to any punishment 
imposed by commissioner General of Examination for 
violation of these rules and regulations.
 15.0 any matter not referred to herein shall be decided 
by director General of combined Services. all candidates 
are bound to comply with the general examination rules 
published in this Gazette.
 16.0 in the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala Tamil and English texts of this notification, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
 K.V .P.M.J. 
gamage,
 director General of combined Services,
 Ministry of Public administration and
 Management.
Ministry of Public administration and Management,
independence Square,
colombo 7,
06th of april 2018.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2018
1093
Specimen Application
oPEN coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN foR REcRuitMENt to claSS 3 GRadE iii of
SRi laNKa iNfoRMatioN aNd coMMuNicatioN tEcHNoloGy SERVicE - 2018
(indicate the relevant symbol / number in the cage)
 (For office use only)
Medium of Examination :
  Sinhala  - 2
  t amil     - 3
  English  - 4
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
* indicate the town and number of the town i n which you intend   Town  Number of the town
 to sit for the exam as per Para. 11 (ii) of the Gazette Notification.  1st Selection
 (Refer schedule i for exam centers and numbers of the towns) 2nd Selection
* are you sitting for the  examination under the category of disability of rehabilitation as per Para 4.0 of the Gazette 
Notification? (Candidate may refer Para 4.0 of the Gazette Notification carefully before filling this section since only 
the differently able candidates are required to mention "yes" in this part)
 y es - 1
 No  - 2    (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0 1.1 Name, with initials at the end :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capital Example : (GuNawaRdHaNa, H.M.S.K.)
 1.2 Name in full (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
 1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/ tamil) :–––––––––––.
 1.4 National identity card No. : 
2.0 2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
 2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/ tamil)
 2.3 address to which admission card should be sent :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
3.0 3.1 Sex : Male    - 0
   female - 1 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 3.2 date of birth : year Month date
 3.3 age as at 21.05.2018 : years Months days
 
 3.4 Mobile number :

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2018
1094
4.0  Educational Qualifications
 4.1.0 Particulars of G. c. E. (o/l) Examination :
 (i) y ear and Month of the Examination :–––––––––––.
 (ii) index Number  :–––––––––––.
 (iii)  Results :-
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
5.0   Professional Qualifications :
 (i) Name of the computer course followed :–––––––––––.
 (ii) institute from where the course was  followed :–––––––––––.
 (iii) date of completion of the course :–––––––––––.
 (iv) duration of the course :–––––––––––.
 (v) if the course is at the level of NVQ 05 or above, indicate the level :–––––––––––.
 (vi) If the duration of the course is not less than 1500 hours and relevant to the field of Information Technology, 
indicate the number of hours :–––––––––––.
6.0  Have you ever been convicted from a court for any charge? Yes  No
  (Indicate √ in the cage) (If yes, give details)  
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––.
7.0   details of the receipt of payment of examination fee :
  (i) Office to which the examination fee was paid :–––––––––––.
  (ii) Number and date of the receipt :–––––––––––.
  (iii) amount paid :–––––––––––.
Affix the receipt here so as not to be detached
(it would be advisable to keep a photo copy of the receipt)
8.0   Certification of the candidate :
 (a) i declare that information given in this form is true to the best of my knowledge. i agree to bear any loss incurred 
by due to not completing some sections of the application and / or completing incorrectly. further, i declare that 
all the sections of this application are perfected correctly and the receipt No. …………….. dated ……………… 
obtained at the payment of the examination fee is affixed herein.
 (b) I am aware that if the declaration made by me is found to be false I am liable to disqualification before appointment 
and to dismissal from service if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
 (c) further, i agree to be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by commissioner General of examinations on 
conducting the examination. 
 (d) i will not change any of the information furnished here.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant.
 
date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2018
1095
9.0  attestation of the applicant's signature :
i hereby certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss ………………… who 
submits this application is known to me personally, he/she 
placed his/her signature in my presence on ……………… 
and further he/she has paid that due examination fee and has 
affixed the receipt.
 –––––––––––––––, 
 (Signature of the Officer attesting the Signature).
 
date :–––––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer Attesting the Signature :–––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
(Place official stamp)
10.0 Recommendation of the  Head of the department :
  (this section is applicable only for the applicants in 
Public Service)
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ……………………..
who is submitting this application is serving in a 
permanent post in this Department and he/she has satisfied 
the qualifications for applying for this post as per this 
examination notification and that he/she could be released 
from his/her present post, if selected for the position.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of the department.
 
date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
(Place official stamp)
scheDule i
towNs iN which examiNatioN ceNters are arraNgeD
 Town Number of the Town
 colombo 01  
 Gampaha 02  
 Kalutara 03  
 Matale 04  
 Kandy 05  
 Nuwaraeliya 06  
 Galle 07  
 Matara 08  
 Hambantota 09
 Jaffna 10
 Mannar 11
 Mulativu 12  
 Vavuniya 13
 t rincomalee 14
 Batticaloa 15
 ampara 16
 Puttalam 17
 Kurunegala 18
 anuradhapura 19
 Polonnaruwa 20
 Badulla 21
 Moneragala 22
 Kegalle 23
 Rathnapura 24
 Kilinochchi 25
04-791 
 
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  laNKa.