

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G29075 – 13 (2018/12)
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government  Notifications
wxl 2101$19 – 2018 foieïn¾ 11 jeks wÕyrejdod – 2018'12'11
No. 2101/19 – TUESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2018
My No. : CI / 1545.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Standard Chartered Bank, No. 37, York Street,
Colombo 01 of the one part and the Ceylon Bank Employees Union, No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10 of the other part on 01st
April 2018 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative
Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
A. WIMALAWEERA,
Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
23rd November, 2018.

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
Collective Agreement No. 30 of 2018
This Collective Agreement made this 01st of April 2018 between Standard Chartered Bank, a Bank duly registered in Sri Lanka
and having its registered office at 37, York Street, Colombo 01 (hereinafter referred to as ‘‘the Bank”).
of the one part
And
The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union, a Trade Union duly registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered office at No. 20,
Temple Road, Colombo 10, (hereinafter referred to as ‘‘the Union’’).
of the other part
WHEREAS the Union made demands for re-negotiation of the Standard Chartered Bank Collective Agreement of 2015 which
came into effect on 1st April 2015 and subsequent to negotiations between the Bank and the Union, agreement has now been
reached between the said two parties for the purpose of ensuring better employee terms and conditions, cooperation between
the Bank, the Union and the employees and maintaining an efficient and productive working enviroment, the matters agreed
upon are set out hereunder;
1. Parties to be Covered and Bound.–  This Agreement shall cover and bind Standard Chartered Bank (the Bank), the
Ceylon Bank Employees Union (the Union) and members of the Union empoyed on monthly contracts of employment by the
Bank and who are employed in any of the categories as at the date of signing this Agreement and for whom salary ranges have
been prescribed in this agreement in the first Schedule hereto (hereinafter referred to as the employees). This Agreement shall
not cover and bind any employee who is an Officer, Assistant Manager, Manager or any other Staff on special rates of pay.
2. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall come into force on the 1st April 2018 and shall continue
until either party terminates it by written notice in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act but no such notice shall be given before
the 31st March 2021. The Union shall, however, have the right to commence negotiations for a revised Collective Agreement
at any time on or after 1st July 2020.
3. Earlier Agreements.– This Agreement shall supersede any other Collective Agreement entered into or binding on
the parties hereto and such earlier Agreements including the Standard Chartered Bank Collective Agreement of 2015 shall
stand repudiated in respect of the parties hereto.
4. Matters Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall be in full and final settlement of all matters covered herein as
well as of all the matters raised by the Union and in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties before the
conclusion of this Agreement and the Union agrees that it will not during the continuance in force of this Agreement raise any
of the matters which were discussed and negotiated between the parties preceding this Agreement except to the agreed.
The Union and its members shall not during the contiuance in force of this Agreement seek to vary, alter or add to all
or any of the terms and conditions of employment or benefits presently applicable or enjoyed as provided for in this Agreement
other than by mutual agreement with the Bank.
5. Consolidated Salary.–  Every employee covered by this Agreement in service as at the date of signing this
Agreement shall, from the 1st April 2018, be placed on the salary range set out in the First Schedule hereto, which  salary has
been consolidated taking into consideration the payment in lieu of Cost of Living stipulated in clause 7 (I).

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
3A
6. Immediate Increase and Conversion to Salary Ranges.– For the placement of an employee on the salary range
applicable in the First Schedule with the exclusions to the above outlined in schedule 2 hereto, the following provisions shall
apply. All employees in service as at 31st March 2018 shall be entitled to the following increases:
(i) A sum equal to 7% (Seven Percent) of the gross salary (salary plus cost of living allowance) payable as at 31st
March 2018, shall be added to the salary of such employees with effect from 1st April 2018.
(ii) A sum equal to 3% (Three Percent) of the gross salary (salary plus cost of living allowance) payable as at 31st
March 2018, shall be added to the salary of such employees with effect from 1st April 2019.
7. Allowances.–
(i) Cost of Living Allowance
Parties are agreed that the following shall be the payment in lieu of the monthly cost of living allowance for the
duration of the Collective Agreement :
(a) Rs. 32,000/- with effect from 1.4.2018;
(b) Rs. 34,000/- with effect from 1.4.2019;
(c) Rs. 36,000/- with effect from 1.4.2020;
Provided, however, in the event of the Department of Census and Statistics publishing a linking factor pertaining
to the rate of payment in relation to the Colombo Consumers’ Price Index (CCPI) (Base year 2012/2013) and if
your Union makes a request for a meeting to discuss the modalities of making this payment, the Bank would be
agreeable to do so.
(ii) Disturbance Allowance
With effect from 01st April 2018, an employee called upon to report for work before 7.00 a.m. shall receive
Rs. 500/- per day, and if required to report before 6 a.m. shall receive Rs. 700/- per day.
(iii) Teller Allowance
With effect from 01.04.2018, teller will be paid a monthly risk allowance of Rs. 4,000/-. This allowance shall be
payable at the end of each quarter (i.e. March, June, September and December each year). This amount will be
pro-rated for periods less than one month by dividing Rs. 4,000/- by 30 and multiplying by the number of days
the employee has worked in the capacity of a teller.
The payment of the teller allowance will be made subject to the following conditions :
1. The payment of the teller allowance can be suspended to those employees who are found to  be
negligent  in performing duties, after due inquiry.
2. Any cash shortage which cannot be recovered through insurance will be set off against the teller’s
allowance.
3. The Teller allowance will not be included for the purpose of computing consequential benefits.
(iv) Travelling Allowance
The Bank will continue the existing practice of granting a travelling allowance of Rs. 1,000/- per month will be
paid to all employees covered and bound by the Collective Agreement.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
Transport will be provided to all employees working after 7.30 p.m.
(v) Night Shift Allowance
With effect from 01st April 2018, a Night Shift Allowance of Rs. 1000/- per shift will be paid to staff members who
are required and authorized by Management to work from 8 pm to 8 am.
8. Annual Salary Increase.– With effect from 01st April 2018, the annual increase awarded to employees covered and
bound by this Agreement will be based on the employee’s performance during the previous calendar year.
(i) Annual Increase Date
The annual increase date for all employees will be 1st of April each year thereafter.
(ii) Assessment of Performance
The annual increae awarded to staff will be based on such staff memeber’s performance, during the previous
calendar year, ending 31st December of each preceding year, based on a Performance Assessement Review
which will be carried out by the staff member’s Line-Manager.
The performance of the staff member will be assessed in terms of the Group descriptor used for the performance
ratings, showing both the descriptor for the Achievement and the Values Behavior rating (alpha-numeric
ratings are not shown); in terms of which ‘‘Outstanding’’ will be the highest performance level and
‘‘Underperforming’’ will be the lowest performance level on a scale of five descriptors defined in Section III.
(iii) Annual Performance Increase and Quantum
In order to recognize and encourage a performance driven culture, the following annual performance increases
will apply (except in the case of an employee’s increase being differed/stopped or suspended on account of
disciplinary action) in the succeeding year during the duration of this agreement, as stipulated in Clause 8(1).
The rating distribution will be in line with the prevailing Group P3 (Performance, Pay, Potential) guidelines. The
five descriptor scale along with the corresponding performance increment ranges are given below:
Outstanding – 9% - 10%
Great – 8% - 9%
Good – 7% - 8%
Development Required – 2% - 3%
Underperforming – 0%
Provided however, an employee’s basic salary on receiving such an increase will not exceed the maximum salary point
set out in the salary range in Schedule I hereto. In the event of an employee reaching the maximum salary point on the range,
the amount of the salary increase granted over and above the maximum salary point will be paid as an annual lump sum
performance bounus. The calculation for this payment will be the amount in excess of the maximum salary point on the range,
as per the increase granted, multiplied by twelve. This lump sum performance bonus shall not attract any consequential
benefits such as overtime, terminal benefits, statutory dues etc.
In the event there is a change to the performance rating structure, the increases applicable to the five categories will
have to be discussed and agreed by both parties at the following Collective Agreement.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
5A
9. Grading Structure.– Those covered and bound by this agreement are employees at Grade 10.
10. Promotions.– Without prejudice to the right of the Bank to recruit staff at their discretion into any job grade, the
Bank will consider suitable employees for promotions to higher job grades, based upon the Bank’s needs and vacancies that
may arise from time to time. The decision of the bank in respect of selection for promotion shall be final and conclusive.
Consideration will be given to performance, qualifications, experience, and merit when selections are made. A minimum
increase of 5% of basic salary will be granted when being promoted to a higher grade, in addition to the annual increment
subject to the provisions and conditions in Clause 8(iii).
In addition to staff being recommended by their Senior Manager, staff may be granted the oppotunity of directly
making their own applications for rconsideration. Vacancies will be filled with existing staff wherever possible, however if
applicants for such vacancies do not meet the required standards, the Bank will recruit externally.
11. Provident Fund.–
(I) Rates of Contribution
The rates of contribution to the Provident Fund by the Bank as at the date of this Agreement which are as
follows shall continue in force subject to the rules of the Provident Fund:
Bank’s contribution - 12% (Twelve per cent) of Consolidated Gross Salary
Employee’s contribution - 8% (Eight per cent) of Consolidated Gross Salary
(II) Interest on Provident Fund Contribution held by the Bank
The Bank with whom all Provident Fund monies have been invested shall pay the rate of interest paid on
12 months Fixed Deposits for a sum of Rs. 100,000/= published by the National Savings Bank prevailing as at
1st January each year, on the net Provident Fund monies invested by the Bank.
Provided however that the Committee of Management of the Provident Fund shall be entitled to call a meeting
of the General Membership whenever it is deemed necessary in order to decide on suitable investments of the
Fund and the returns from time to time.
(III) Deficiency in Bank’s Contributions to Provident Fund to an Employee not entitled to a
Pension
APPLICABLE  TO  THOSE  EMPLOYEES  NAMED  IN  SCHEDULE  2
Where an employee shall cease to be employed by the Bank in circumstances which do not entitle him to
pension or payment in lieu of pension as the case may be, such employee shall be entitled to the difference
between the Bank’s contribution made to the  Fund during his period of service and the Employer’s minimum
rate of contribution he would have been entitled to, in terms of the Employees Provident Fund Act and its
amendments from time to time as a contribution to the Fund by the Employer on behalf of such employee.
Such deficiency will be the difference between the following minimum rates of contribution under the Act and
consolidated basic salary actually contributed by the Bank.
From 01.01.81 to 30.09.91 12% of gross salary
Prior to 31.12.80 the Employer’s minimum rate of contribution was 9% of total earnings (gross salary) which
was less than 10% of consolidated basic salary and therefore no deficiency arises.
The rate of contribution by the Bank, increased from 10% to 12% of gross salary with effect from 1st October,
1991 and therefore no deficiency arises thereafter.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
Accordingly, deficiency in Provident Fund - Employer’s Contribution will only arise in respect of the period
01.01.81 to 30.09.91 and will be computed by dividing the aggregate Employer’s contribution during this
period by 10 and multiploying same by 2 to make good the 2% deficiency.
12. Terminal Benefits.–
(I) Pensions
The Bank operates two pension schemes.
All current G10 employees will be governed either by the SCB or SCGB pension schemes,
(a) SCGB Pension Scheme (Applicable to employees listed in Schedule 2)
(i) Pensions - Retirement.–
An employee shall, upon reaching the age of retirement i.e. 55 years and who is in the permanent employment
of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed not less than ten (10) years of actual continuous service
(excluding absence/ leave without pay), be entitled to a pension computed on the following basis, provided
however, than an employee between the age of 50 and 55 years, who shall have completed not less than 10
years of service, in the manner referred to above, may opt to retire, subject however, to granting the Bank the
stipulated period of notice of  retirement.
Number of completed years service
(max 35 years) plus 5
          60
(ii) Pensions - Premature Retirement on Medical Grounds /  Disability.–
An employee, who is found to be unable to continue to perform his or her duties as a result of infirmity/
disability as certified by the Bank’s Doctor/Medical Specialist/Government Medical Board, and who is in the
permanent employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed not less than 10 years of actual
continuous service (excluding absence/ leave without pay) shall be entitled to a pension computed on the
same basis referred to at clause 12 1 a(i) above. Provided, however, that where an employee is entitled to
compensation by the Bank under any laws in force at the time or An Award of Court, such employee shall only
be entitled to a pension or such compensation as opted by him or her, but not to both. Provided further that
in the case of an employee whose premature retirement occurred in consequence of an accident which entitled
him to compensation, the pre-acceptance of pension as provided herein, will not restrict the right of such
employee in subsequently claiming any balance compensation under any written law.
(iii) Commutation of Pension - In Lieu of Pension Rights.–
An employee who is entitled to receive a pension in terms of Clause 12 1 a (i) and 12 1 a (ii)  above may at his
discretion opt for the payment of a commutation of pension in lieu of his pension rights.
The payment will be computed on the following basis;
Number of completed years service
(max 35 years) plus 5
2 
 (Monthly salary
payable for  the month
of Retirement + COLA)

Monthly salary
payable for  the month
of Retirement + COLA


<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
7A
The above payment shall constitute a settlement in full and final satisfaction of all claims against the Bank on
account of the cessation of employment in respect of gratuity, pension, deficiency, if any, in the Bank’s
contribution to Provident Fund, to an employee not paid a pension, in terms of Clause 12 1 a (i) & 12 1 a (ii)
above.
(b) SCB Pension Scheme .–
(i) Pensions - Retirement.–
With effect from the date of his Agreement, and employee entitled to a pension in expressed terms of his
employment shall, upon reaching the retirement age of the Bank and who is in the permanent employment
of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed not less than 10 years of actual continuous service
(excluding absence/leave without pay), be entitled to a monthly pension computed on the following
basis:
No. of completed years service
(max 35 years) plus 5
         55
(ii) Pension - Premature Retirement on Medical Grounds /  Disability.-
An Employee who is found to be unable to continue to perform his duties as a result of infirmity/disability, as
certified by the Bank’s Doctor/Medical Specialist/Government Medical Board, and who is in the permanent
employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed not less than 10 years of actual continuous
service (excluding absence/ leave without pay) shall be entitled to a pension computed on the same basis
referred to at clause 12 1b(i) above. Provided, however, that where an employee is entitled to compensation
by the Bank under any laws in force at the time or An Award of Court, such employee shall only be entitled
to a pension or such compensation as opted by him, but not to both. Provided further that in the case of an
employee whose premature retirement occurred in consequence of an accident which entitled him to
compensation, the pre - acceptance of pension as provided herein will not restrict the right of such employee
in subsequently claiming any balance compensation under any written law.
(iii) Lump Sum Gratuity in Lieu of Pension Rights.-
An employee who is entitled to receive a pension in terms of 12 l (b) (i) or 12 l (b) (ii) above may at his
discretion opt for the payment of a lump sum gratuity in lieu of his pension and any other payments arising
therefrom. The payment will be computed on the following basis :
No. of completed years
service (max. 35 years) plus 5
The above payment shall constitute a settlement in full and final satisfaction of all claims against the Bank on
account of the cessation of employment in respect of gratuity, pension, deficiency if any, in the Bank’s
contribution to Provident Fund to an employee not paid a pension in terms of Clause 12 l (b) (i) or 12 l (b) (ii)
above.
(iv) Commuted Pension–
(i) At the option of the employee at the time of retirement on or after 1st April 2006, 25% of the monthly
pension into 120 will be paid to employees who are entitled to a pension, who do not opt for a lump sum
payment as provided for the the agreement and who opt for such commuted pension.
Monthly salary
payable in  the month
of Retirement + COLA

1.5 (basic salary plus cost of
Living Allowance calculated for
the month of retirement)


<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
(ii) Where an Employee commutes his monthly pension in the manner aforesaid, the monthly pension
payable to him during the first ten years of retirement will be 75% of the monthly pension he would have
been entitled to at the time of retirement if he had not so commuted his pension. After the expiry of the ten
years the amount of the monthly pension so commuted will be restored and added to the monthly
pension then being paid.
(II) Death Gratuity
On the death of an employee who has been confirmed and is in the permanent employment of the Bank, the
Bank will make a compassionate payment of two month’s gross salary for each year of completed service,
subject to a minimum of twelve months gross salary, to the legitimate dependents of the deceased employee,
as may be determined by the Bank at its sole discretion on the basis of information supplied to them.
In the case of the death of an employee who is not confirmed in employment the amount payable will be 50%
of that payable to a confirmed employee provided that in the case of an employee who has not been confirmed
consequent upon a promotion to a higher grade, the gratuity payable will be calculated as in the case of a
confirmed employee. The gross salary for this purpose shall be the last drawn salary plus Cost of Living
Allowance.
Provided, however, that in the event of death arising out of and in the course of employment, the dependents
shall be entitled to and receive either the death gratuity referred to herein or payment by way of compensation
under any laws in force at the time on account of Employees’ Compensation or under any other law or an
Award of Court, whichever, is higher. Provided further that in the case of an employee whose death occurred
in consequence of an accident which entitled him to Compensation, the pre-acceptance of Death Gratuity as
provided herein, shall not restrict the right of such dependents in subsequently claiming any balance
compensation due to them under any written law.
(III) Gratuity upon Resignation/Termination prior to Retirement
An employee shall, upon resignation/termination of employment prior to retirement in circumstances which
do not entitle him to the terminal benefits referred to at the aforementioned Clauses 121( a) and 121(b) be
entitled to a gratuity computed in terms of the Payment of Gratuity Act (1983), which shall be paid within
30 days of the cessation of employment.
The salary for this purpose shall comprise the salary referred to at Clause 5 and the Cost of Living Allowance
referred to at Clause 7(a) hereof.
Completed years of actual service shall include only actual continuous service worked excluding absence/
leave without pay, but subject to the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act (1983) and Clause 20 thereof.
No benefits granted under these rules shall be assignable or transferable to any person or corporation other
than the Bank. The Bank would, however, have a right of lien over benefits in the event of fraud or dishonestly
by any employee, resulting in a loss to the Bank.
13. Funeral Assistance.– With effect from 01st April 2018, the Bank will grant assistance to the familly of a staff
member, who expires while in service, by way of meeting the actual cost of funeral expenses, subject however, to a maximum
limit of Rs. 200,000/-.
The Bank will also grant assistance to an employee in service, in the event of the death of a spouse or child (below
21 years of age). In such an instance, the bank will assist to meet the actual cost of funeral expenses, subject to a maximum limit
of Rs. 100,000/-.
In addition to the above, the Bank will assist to meet the cost of funeral expenses in the event of a death of a parent (this
may include father/mother whether it be the biological, adopted or step-mother/father) subject to a maximum of Rs. 50,000/-.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
9A
14. Medical Scheme.– With effect from 01st April 2018, the following benefits would be made available through the
Bank’s medical insurance scheme in line with benefits made availabe for all staff.
(i) Reimbursement of Outdoor Medical Expenses (OPD)
The Bank shall reimburse an employee, through an Insurance Service Provider, up to a maximum of
Rs. 40,000/- per annum, in respect of medical expenses incurred by him on his own behalf, on behalf of his
spouse or unmarried legitimate children under the age of 18, parents and parents-in-law, provided however,
that any medical claim on this account shall be supported by relevant prescriptions, bills and receipts.
Provided further, that the prescriptions or doctors bills shall be from a registered medical practitioner. This
facility shall be per annum and non-cumulative.
(ii) Special Non-Hospitalisation and Non-Surgical Expenditure
The Bank will reimburse an employee on a non-cumulative basis a further sum up to a maximum of
Rs. 7,500/- per annum on account of special non-hospitalisation and non-surgical expenses covering the
following items only incurred on behalf of the employee only and not on behalf of his family members :
(a) Dentures
(b) Hearing Aids
Subject to the provisos that no claim is made in relation to items (a) and (b) more than once in three years.
Provided in the case of spectacles the Bank will reimburse an employee a sum of Rs. 20,000/- in lieu of
expenses only once every two (2) years. In the case of spectacles the claim must further be supported by
documentary evidence as required by the Insurance Service Provider. Any claim made for spectacles will be
deducted from the Special Non Hospitalization and Non surgical allowance of Rs. 7,500/- per year.
The Bank at its discretion may consult appropriate medical opinion for confirmation in respect of a claim made
under 14(II) above.
(iii) Surgical and Hospitalisation Expenditure
An Employee would be entitled to the benefits on account of surgical and hospital expenses in respect of
hospitalization on his own behalf, of his spouse, unmarried dependent children, parents and parents-in-law,
up to a maximum limit of Rs. 400,000/- (Rupees Four Hundred Thousand) for any one year.
A dependent parent shall only include a parent who resides with and is totally dependent upon the staff
member and shall not be in receipt of any source of income/pension/grant, etc., as may be verified by the
Bank.
The year for this purpose would be a Calendar Year i.e. 1st January to 31st December of each year.
Reimbursement of Surgical and Hospital Expenses is subject to conditions specified by the insurers. Any
changes to the conditions of the policy will be applied accordingly.
All payments on account of this facility will be strictly confined to the direct payment or reimbursement of
acutal bills from a nursing home or Government hospital.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
In the case of admission to a non-paying Government hospital, the staff member will be entitled to a payment
of Rs. 1,500/- (One Thousand Five Hundred) per day of admission to meet the cost of travelling and incidental
expenses plus the actual cost of any drugs etc. precribed by the Surgeon/Doctor.
Married family unit consists of employee, spouse and two children, up to two parents of the employee, and up
to two parents-in-law. Unmarried family unit consists of the employee and both parents.
The Third Schedule hereto sets out the terms on which reimbursement of medical expenditure will be effected.
(iv) Maternity Grant .–
With effect from 01st April 2018, an employee who is married will be entitled to a grant of Rs. 20,000/- in respect
of twin births of children. If both spouses are employed in the Bank only one shall be entitled to this grant.
This grant will be payable via the Bank’s insurance provider, under the hospitalization insurance referred to
in Clause 14 (III).
15. Retirement.–
(a) The age of retirement shall be 55 years, or any other age mutually agreed to between the Bank and its
employees, and on reaching the age of 55, or any other age mutually agreed upon, an employee shall ipso
facto retire and cease to be employed by the Bank and there shall be no obligation on the Bank to give such
Employee any notice of such retirement.
(b) An employee may also be retired and be eligible for retirement benefits if he is not less than 50 years and has
10 or more years of service, subject to mutual agreement between the employee, his Union and the employer
that he should be given such concession and subject to the condition that the refusal by any party to agree
to such premature retirement shall not constitute an industrial dispute.
16. Bonus.– Without prejudice to the claim of the Bank that bonus payments are ex-gratia, the Bank will each year pay
to every employee covered by this Agreement a bonus of two months’ salary as drawn by such employee for the month of
December in respect of one complete year of service meaning January to December and proportionately for service less than
one year at the rate of one-twelfth of such entitlement in respect of each complete month of service. The salary for his purpose
shall include the cost of living allowance payable for that month.
17. Personal Accident Inssurance .– The Bank will take insurnce cover against compensation payable to staff,
resulting from injury or death, arising out of any accident, in Sri Lanka or overseas, 24 hour cover.
(i) Category of Employees Covered .–
All categories of staff.
(ii) Limit of Indemnity.–
100% of sum insured would be equivalent to 60 months consolidated gross salary of the staff member
concerned.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
11A
(iii) Table of Compensation .–
Accidental Bodily Injury Limit of Indemnity
(i) Death
(ii) Total and irrecoverable loss of use of
both hands or both feet or one eye and
one limb (hand or foot) or one hand and
one foot, use of one, Eye, one hand or
one Foot.
(iii) Permanent total disablement
Double the scale of compensation to staff engaged in courier of cash and those staff who are engaged as technicians.
DEFINITION - PERMANENT TOTAL DISABLEMENT - Shall mean permanent and complete inability to attend to any part
whatsoever of the employee’s occupation or any other occupation for which he is fitted, by knowledge and training.
(iv) Limitations.–
Benefits under III (iii) above shall be payable only at the end of the 52nd week from the date of injury.
Payment shall not be made under more than one of the scales of compensation specified at III (i) (ii) or (iii)
above.
No further liability to make any payment for any employee shall attach to the insurers or the Bank, after a claim
under the scales of compensation specified at III (i), (ii) or (iii) have been admitted and become payable.
While the bank will make every effort and care in lodging claims for compensation, it will not accept responsibility
or liability in respect of any claims that may not be accepted or in which liability is repudiated by the insures,
under any circumstances whatsoever.
18. Loan Facilities.–
(i) Housing Loan
The Bank shall arrange the Staff Housing Loan through a Service Provider as deemed fit.
(a) Eligibility.–
Five years service with a record of good performance as determined by the Bank. A ‘‘Good’’ rating or
above, for the past 2 years, will be considered ‘good performance’.
(b) Limit: Rs. 4,000,000/-
(c) Quantum of Loan .–
(i) The maximum loan entitlement  shall be such capital sum as per the above limits which the staff members
shall  be capable of repaying in full including  interest, prior to his/her  retirement, within the monthly
salary deduction of  sixty per  centum (60%) of gross salary on account of all  loans  availed of and other
deductions.
100% of sum insured
Occurring within twelve months of the
injury or the happening of the event,
100% of sum insured to 50% of sum
insured.
100% of sum insured

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
(ii) The loan shall be in respect of 100%  of the cost of the house and property, including  legal charges and
stamp duties  and the cost of the single premium  life insurance premia. In the case of  purchase of land
and construction of a house thereon, there should be clear proof to the satisfaction of the management,
that the staff member will be completing the purchase of land and construction of a house thereon,
within the loan entitlement, i.e.Loans will not be  available for partial construction of a house.
(d) Interest.–
Interest shall be charged monthly on the outstanding balance  and shall be recovered  along with  the
principal at 2% per annum.
(e) Repayment.–
Repayment period shall be extended up to the point of retirement of a staff member.
(f) Security.–
(i) Mortgage over Property
(ii) Promissory Note (where Mortgage has not yet been signed)
(iii) Temporary decreasing Life Insurence Policy
(iv) Any other form of security arrangements recommended by the Bank's Attorneys or considered necessary
in the circumstances by the bank.
(g) Restrictions.–
(i)  The housing loan facility is a one-off facility that will accure to a staff member only once during his/her
employment except, However, in the case of a staff member who shall sell the house purchased against
the loan and repay such loan in full, whereupone such staff member may be entitled to a further loan to
purchase another  house and property subject to the satisfaction of the Bank that such reinvestment
was for the inprovement  of  living standards within reasonable limits of the staff members and family.
(ii) Loans will be available only to build, re-build or extend a house, but nor for repairs.
(iii) In the case of the purchase of a house and property, the  needs of such house and property shall be
examined by the Bank's lawyers and a Certificate of good title obtained.
(iv) Loans will not be granted to staff members who shall not reside in the house being purchased, built or
extended, as the case may be.
(v) A Valuation of the house and property should be obtained from a certified / Qualified Valuer, confirming
the value of such house and property.
(vi) A certificate of  Non-vesting should be obtained from  the Municipal /Urban Council Authorities.
(vii) A certificate to be obtained from the Municipal/Urban council Authorities that the Municipal rate,
Electricity, Water Bills, etc. have been paid in full, upto the date of transfer.
(viii) The house and property must be kept in good condition at all times and should be made available for
inspection by the Bank from time to time during the operation of the loan.
(ix) This facility shall further be subject to the general restrictions specified under ‘‘Loans General
Restrictions’’

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
13A
(ii) Vehicle Loan.–
Staff vehicle Loans shall be arranged through the bank in line with Bank's  policies.
(a) Eligibility.–
Three  years service with a record of good performance, as determined by the Bank.
(b) Quantum of Loan.–
The maximum loan entitlement shall be such capital sum which the staff  member shall be capable of
repaying in full including interest, prior to his/her retirement, within the maximum  monthly salary deduction
of sixty percent (60%) of consolidated gross salary on account of all loans availed of and other deductions.
Salary for this purpose  shall be the salary drawn by the staff member as at date of application.
(c) Interest.–
3% per annum, applied monthly
(d) Repayment.–
Not more than 72 monthly installments in the case of Motor vehicles and 36 Installments in the case of
Motor Cycles/Scooters.
In the case of employees with more than 5 Years service, the repayment shall be extended  to cover a period
of 10 years.
(e) Security.–
(i) Mortgage over vehicle or unencumbered lien over Provident Fund.
(ii) Demand Promissory Note pending execution of Mortgage  Bond.
(iii) Lien over total Provident fund balances
(iv) Comprehensive Insurance Policy to cover the full prevailing market value of the vehicle and cover all
risks, including ‘‘Learner Driver’’ where applicable.
(v) Registration Book of the vehicle to be lodged with in Bank pending execution of Mortgage bond and
registration of same with the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
(f) Restrictions.–
(i) The staff member is free to pay more than the minimum repayment installment, subject however, to the
restriction specified under ‘‘Loans-General Restrictions’’.
(ii) The vehicle to be for the personal use of the staff member concerned and cannot be hired, rented or
leased.
(iii) The staff member or spouse must posses a valid driving license issued by the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles, to drive the class of vehicle for which the loan is obtained.
(iv) In the case of a second hand vehicle a Valuation Report should be obtained from the local agent, the
Automobile Association of Ceylon or any other V aluer recognized by the Bank and the quantum of loan
shall not exceed the amount of such valuation.
(v) In the case of all purchases the payment shall be made by pay Order drawn directly in favor of the seller,
for the purchase value of such vehicle.

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
(vi) The vehicle must be kept in good condition at all times and should be made vaaliable for inspection by
the Bank from time to time.
(vii) No further loans under this facility will be available to a staff member even though the total has been
repaid, in full if such staff member is in possession of a vehicle earlier purchased under the same facility.
(viii) This facility shall further be subject to the general restrictions specified under ‘‘Loans General
Restrictions’’.
(iii) Personal Loan.–
(a) Eligibility
One year’s service, with a record of good performance as determined by the Bank.
(b) Quantum of Loan
Maximum nine months gross salary. Salary for this purpose shall be the salary drawn by the staff member
as at date of application.
(c) Interest
4% per annum, applied monthly.
(d) Repayment
Not more than 48 monthly installments.
(e) Security
(i) Promissory Note in favour of the Bank.
(ii) Un-encumbered lien over Provident fund total balances.
(f) Restrictions
Personal Loan enhancements will be available only after repayment of 12 installments.
This facility shall further be subject to the general restrictions specified under ‘‘Loans General Restrictions’’.
(iv) Surgical and Hospitalization Loan.–
Where any staff member requests for financial assistance, the bank will grant such staff member a letter
addressed to the hospital/nursing home undertaking to settle bills in full, where such hospitalization expenses
qualify for reimbursement under the conditions of the Surgical and Hospital expenses Scheme, provided
however, that all expenses, hospital charges, etc., which do not qualify for reimbursement, will be recoverable
from the staff member concerned, who may if he so desires, request for such recovery in installment. Recovery
shall be in no more than 36 monthly installments, interest free.
This facility shall, however, be further, subject to the general restrictions specified under ‘‘Loans-General
Restrictions’’.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
15A
(v) Festival Advance.–
(a) Quantum and Conditions
One month’s gross salary for any one festival each year of the employee’s choice, repayable in 10 equal
installment,s interest free, provided further, that such Festival Advance will not be payable until the
Festival Advance paid previously, has been recovered in full.
(b) Restrictions
The total deduction from the staff member’s salary including this recovery and all other deductions shall
not exceed 60% of the staff members consolidated gross salary.
(vi) Loans-General Restrictions.–
(i) BANK  POLICY  OF  GRANTING  LOANS.– Loans, unlike salary and perquisites are not automatically due
to any employee. Staff loan facilities, at highly concessional rates of interest and very soft repayment
periods are regarded by the Bank as a costly fringe benefit, only available to staff with a good record of
overall performance. Staff who, therefore, do not possess a good record of performance, as assessed by the
Bank will not qualify to enjoy these loan facilities.
(ii) REPAYMENT  RESTRICTION  60%  OF  GROSS  SALARY -  MAXIMUM  LIMIT  ON  ACCOUNT  OF  ALL
DEDUCTIONS  (INCLUDING  LOAN  PAYMENTS)  SHALL  NOT EXCEED 60% - While the staff member is
free to avail himself of loans in any proportions (subject to the restrictions) under no circumstances whatsoever,
shall the total deductions from such staff member’s monthly salary including all loan deductions exeed 60%
of such staff member’s monthly gross salary.
(iii) REPAYMENT THROUGH SALARY ONLY - The recognised means of repayment of all Staff Loan Facilities
will be exclusively confined to recoveries from monthly salary, except at the time of termination when
repayment from balance dues and in cash will be acceptable.
(iv) Accordingly under no circumstances will employee be permitted to manipulate, improve and / or advance
their loan facilities under any of the loan facilities by repayment in cash or any other means, excluding
normal deductions from salary.
(v) SENIOR  MANAGEMENT  DISCRETION - The above terms and conditions will generally apply in respect
of all loan schemes referred to in these terms of service. However, the General Manager may exercise his
discretion referred to above, to the benefit of any staff member, subject however, to the condition that the
restriction pertaining to the maximum period of repayment and the maximum deduction of 40% of his gross
salary, as defined in the above scheme cannot be varied and shall strictly apply.
(vi) CESSATION  OF  STAFF  MEMBER’S  EMPLOYMENT - In the event of there being a balance outstanding
under any loan facility at the date of cessation of a staff member’s employment, such balance shall be
immediately repayable in full and all concessions enjoyed by the staff member under these terms of service
shall cease forthwith.
(vii) BANK’S  LIEN  OVER  PROVIDENT  FUND - In terms of the rules of the Grindlays Bank Ceylonese staff
Provident fund the Bank enjoys a first and paramout lien on 75% of the aggregate balance, (including
interest) lying to the credit of a staff member in respect of any loans or salary advance or any other dues to
the Bank, which the bank may exercies, for recovery in the event of the termination of death of a staff
member.

<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
(viii) UNSECURED  LOANS,  REDUCE  PROVIDENT  FUND  LOANS - All staff loans, excluding Housing Loans,
are categorized ‘UNSECURED  LOANS’ and, the Provident Fund Committee of Management should be
advised that when granting employee loans against their Provident fund balance, the entitlement has to be
reduced by the total amount of ‘UNSECURED’ staff loans. Also similary the eligibility under the Staff loans
Scheme will be reduced by the amount of the outstanding Provident fund Loan. i.e. The lien on Provident
Fund monies can only be of value if such monies are available to the Bank.
(ix) MISUSE - In the event of any staff member being found to misuse these loan facilities or violatig the terms
and conditions of any of these Schemes the Bank may at its discretion so advise the staff member and apply
the commercial rate of interest on the loan and increase the repayment ad also impose any further action it
may deem necessary against any such staff member in the circumstances.
19. Probation.– Every Employee recruited by the Bank will serve a period of nine months probation subject to the right
of the Bank to extend the period of probation by a further period of three months.
20. Concessions to Branch Union Office Bearers and General Councilors.–
(a) The Bank shall at its discretion permit the release of not more than two Branch Union Office Bearers at any one
given occasion without loss of pay exclusively to enable such Branch Union Office Bearers to be present at
inquiries before the Labour Department, Labour Tribunal, Arbitrations, Industrial Courts, and with their
respective Bank Managements - exclusively on matters pertaining to the Bank.
(b) It is agreed that Central Committee Members (General Council) of the Union will be permitted to leave at
12.30 p.m. on 12 days in a year for meetings. In the case of outstation General Council Members, they would
be permitted leave for the whole day for 12 General Council Meetings in a year.
(c) It is agreed that a day’s paid leave shall be granted on two occasions per year to General Councilors to attend
Parent Union General Council meetings.
(d) It is agreed that Executive Committee members will be released at 3.00 p.m. for meetings of the Executive
Committee of the Union. These meetings will not usually be more than on a monthly basis.
21. Special Leave to Visit Outstation Branches.– The Bank shall permit office bearers of the Union employed by the
Bank paid leave to visit outstation branches calculated on the basis of a day’s leave available for each such branch, i.e. if there
are X branches the total number of days paid leave available shall also be X. For this purpose an outstation Branch is one
situated more than 30 miles from Colombo.
22. Overtime.-
(a) If required by his employer an employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the
Employer, subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force.
(b) Overtime work shall be remunerated in accordance with the provisions of the Shop and Office Employees Act.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
17A
23. Annual, Medical and Casual Leave.–
I. Annual Leave :
(a) Entitlement. –
In respect of each year of employment (which means the period January to December) during which an
employee has been in continuous employment he shall be entitled to take in the following year 21 working
days paid leave. He shall avail himself of at least 10 years out of the 21 days on successive days and shall in
respect of each year avail himself of not less than 14 days out of the said 21 working days.
At the end of the first year of employment the employee qualifies for proportionate leave as follows:
(a) The full annual holiday of 21 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st January but before 1st April.
(b) A Holiday of 15 days if his  employment commence on or after 1st April but before 1st July.
(c) A holiday of 11 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st July but before 1st October, and
(d) A holiday of 6 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st October.
(b) Availment.–
The availment of all annual leave shall be by prior authorization of the Bank upon the employee's application,
giving sufficient notice to the Bank, so as to ensure availment at times mutually convenient. Availments shall
be in not more than two installments, each year.
(c) Accumulation.–
Annual leave may be accumulated by an employee exclusively  for the following purposes;
(a) For availment in full, immediately preceding retirement by mutual arrangement with the bank.
(b) For the purpose of attending on a  family members who is seriously ill.
(c) For travel abroad  for which purpose one month's prior notice shall be given.
(d) For marriage of the employee
(e) For use during prolonged illness of the employee, when the medical leave quantum (including accumulated
medical leave) is exhausted.
(f) On account of the death of a family member provided  that the employee  has exhausted his current  year's
leave'
(g) For purposes of nursing third and fourth children beyond the maternity Leave entitlemement.
Provided that in the case of (b)  to (d) the approval of such leave shall be at the discretion of  the management. Family
member  for purposes  of (b) above shall mean spouse, children or parents.
Provided also that such accumulation will be  restricted  up to a maximum of seven (07) days per year and provided
further that such total accumulation shall be restricted to a maximum of ninety (90)  days and shall not be encashed under any
circumstance.
(d) Holiday Reimbursrement.–
All employees will be entitled to reimbursement  of the expenses incurred by them during their Annual Leave
holiday, up to a maximum value of  half month's gross salary once every  year. The gross salary for this
purpose  shall be the gross salary payable to such employee for the month of january entitlement of the
respective year. This benefit is non -cumulative and will lapse if not availed of, during the year.

<!-- page 18 -->

18A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
II. Medical Leave :
(a) Entitlement
An employee shall be entitled to not less than twenty four (24) days leave exclusive of weekly or other
holidays in any one year, in case of sickness on  full pay, subject to the conditions in sub-clause (b) hereof.
(b) Availment
The bank will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for any days of absence on grounds of sickness not supported
by a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner;
(a) Where such period of absence exceeds two consecutive days including weekly or other holidays, or
(b) Where the number of days already allowed on full pay on grounds of sickness, uncertified by a medical
Practioner, is in  excess of ten (10) days.
The bank will be entitled, after inquiry and advising the employee concerned, to refuse to pay and/or  take any action
as appropriate in situations where the absence on grounds of sickness occurs in the following circumstances;
(a) Where the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the application and/or reason for
absence of an employee, or
(b) Where the absence of  the employee on grounds of sickness immediately follows or precedes any weekly
or other holiday and the Bank has reasonable causes to suspect the bona fides of the application and/or
reason for  absence of the employee.
(c) Accumulation
An employee who takes less than his entitlement in any one year as prescribed above shall be entitled to avail
himself of the balance of his entitlement for such year in any succeeding year or year, subject to the following
provisions;
(a) in no case shall the entitlement to medical leave on full pay, by reason of such accumulation, exceed ninety
(90) days, and
(b) the accumulated medical leave may only be availed of an account of prolonged illness, hospitalization  or
similar circumstances, supported by a certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner.
(c) Where an employee has exhausted his current year's sick leave as a result of prolonged illness such as an
infectious disease or prolonged hospitalization an employer may permit him to set off anu further absence
on grounds of ill health against such accumulated sick leave up to the extent of the leave taken for such
earlier prolonged illness.
III. Casual Leave :
An employee shall be entitled to a maximum of seven (7) days casual Leave in each year of employment whereof
not more than two (2) days shall be taken at any one given time and such leave  shall not precede or follow any
period of annual leave, All casual leave shall be by prior approval of the Bank, unless the reason for such
absence is justified to the Satisfaction of the Bank as being in circumstances that could  not have been foreseen
by such employee.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
19A
24. Suspension.–
(i) Where an employee is suspended pending a disciplinary inquiry on investigations, he will, Subject to the
provisions of sub clauses (ii) and (iii) below, receive half his salary from the date of suspension up to six months
and full pay thereafter, subject to the condition that the delay was not due to the employee concerned.
(ii) Where the suspention is on account of charges involving financial dishonesty such has fraud or
misappropriation, the employee will not be entitled to any salary during the period  of suspension unless the
inquiry is not concluded within six months of the date of  suspension in which event he will receive half his
salary (salary plus cost of living allowance) during his suspension beyond the said six months period. Provided
that if the delay beyond six months is due to the employee's own conduct  or due to the employee being in
custody or remand thereby making it impossible for the Bank to hold or conclude the inquiry, half such salary
as aforementioned will not be payable.
(iii) In cases not involving financial dishonestly as aforementioned, where the employer is prevented from concluding
the inquiry within six months of suspension for reasons beyond the employer’s control such as where the
employee makes repeated requests for postponements or where he is remanded or in Police custody or where
the matter is under investigation by the Police, the employee will continue to receive half his salary and will not
receive full pay in these circumstances.
25. Disciplinary Procedure.– Where the Bank proposes to take disciplinary action against an employee except,
however, in the case of oral warning, letters of advice, caution or warnings for minor offences, the following procedure shall
apply:
(a) Irrespective of whether such employee has been suspended, the employee shall be furnished with a show
cause letter which shall set out the particulars of the charges against such employee and such show cause
letter shall give the employee not less than ten (10) calendar days within which to tender his explanation in
writing to the charges preferred.
(b) Within ten (10) calendar days after the date of the show cause letter the employee shall tender in writing to the
Bank his explanation to the aforesaid charges provided however that if in the circumstances it is reasonable
the employee may request the Bank for an extension of time within which to tender the written explanation and
where such request is made, the Bank shall normally grant such request for such further period of time as is
considered necessary by the Bank in the circumstances.
(c) If where the employee tenders his explanation within the period of time allowed to the employee to show
cause and the Bank is satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall withdraw the charge/s against the
employee and if the employee is under suspension, the Bank shall forthwith reinstate the employee and shall
pay to such employee his salary and entitlements in respect of the period of such suspension.
(d) Where the employee tenders his explanation within the time allowed to him to show cause and the Bank is not
satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall, subject to sub-clause (k)(iii) hereof, hold an inquiry into the
charges against such employee.
(e) The Bank shall commence an inquiry as referred to in sub-clause (d) hereof within 21 working days from the
date of receipt by them of the written explanation to the show cause letter unless it is not possible to do so for
reasons beyond the Bank’ control, or by reason of the employee’s own conduct or seeking or by reason of
unforeseen circumstances.

<!-- page 20 -->

20A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
(f) The Bank will permit a member of the Branch Union of the same Grade or of a Higher Grade than the accused
employee or an office bearer of the Branch Union irrespective of grade (in which case the Bank reserves to
itself the right to prevent the person carrying on the defense for unacceptable conduct) or a Central Committee
Member of the Union employed in the Bank to defend the accused employee at a domestic inquiry provided
the defending employee has not obtained a legal qualification. The defending employee will not suffer any
loss of salary for absence form work on this account. The Bank will further allow another member of the
Branch Union to be present at the inquiry as an Observer without loss of salary for absence from work.The
accused employee shall submit to the Bank in writing the name of the defending employee and Observer not
less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the commencement of the inquiry. The defending employee
shall be entitled to examine the witnesses for the accused employee and cross examine witnesses for the Bank.
The inquiring Officer will be entitled to require a defending employee or Observer who obstructs the inquiry
to withdraw therefrom and the defending employee or Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.
The absence of a defending employee or Observer from the whole or any part of an inquiry for any reason
whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, not the proceedings thereat, nor the findings pursuant thereto. The
Observer shall not be entitled to participate in the proceedings but he may answer any question which the
Inquiring Officer may ask him.
(g) The Union will be entitled to a copy of the proceedings of the inquiry conducted subject to the Observer and
the accused employee signing proceedings as a correct record. After the proceedings have been certified and
a copy issued to the accused employee for all purposes thereafter the proceedings shall be taken as a true
copy of such proceedings before the Inquiring Officer.
(h) The Inquiring Officer shall maintain his impartiality and shall not attempt to act the role of the prosecution as
well.
(i) Within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of the inquiry the Bank shall inform the employee, in
writing, of the findings in respect of the charges and of the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer.
(j) Where the Bank fails to inform the employee as aforesaid within the said period of thirty (30) working days
except for reasons beyond the control of the Bank or by reason of the conduct of the employee, such
employee shall not be punished thereafter in respect of such charges and no inference adverse to the
employee shall be drawn in respect of such charges.
(k) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions, the Bank shall not be required to hold a domestic inquiry in any
of the following circumstances:
(i) Where the employee fails to tender his written explanation before the expiry of the time allowed to
show cause in which event the Bank shall be entitled to take disciplinary action on the basis that such
employee had no cause to show.
(ii) Where the employee makes a written admission of the charges against him.
(iii) Where the  Bank proposes to warn an employee, but without prejudice to the Union’s right to request
the Bank thereafter to old an inquiry in which event the fact that the inquiry did not commence within
twenty one (21) working days after receipt of the employee’s explanation shall not be material or
relevant.
(l) The findings of a domestic inquiry and the punishment if any imposed by the Bank shall be final and binding
on the Bank and the employee and the Union, unless the employee or the Union shall within three (3) months
from the date on which the Bank had notified such employee of the findings or punishment, raises a dispute
in respect of such findings and/or punishment.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
21A
(m) Where an employee is under suspension and the Bank makes order that –
(i) the employment of the employee shall be terminated, then the termination of such employment shall
take effect as from the date of suspension or such later date as the Bank may determine; provided
further that the Bank shall not be entitled to recover from the employee any payment made in respect
of salary to the employee in respect of such period of suspension, if any such payment has been
made.
(ii) the employment of the employee shall not be terminated, then the employee shall be employed
forthwith and shall be paid the entirety of his salary in respect of the period of suspension without
prejudice to the right of the Bank to impose such other punishment other than termination,  which may
include the whole or part of the period of suspension pending inquiry, on the basis of the findings of
the inquiry.
 ( n) The observance by the Bank of sub-clauses (e), (i) and (j) shall not be necessary where an inquiry is not held
in view of the fact that the matter under inquiry is being referred, or has been referred, to the Police or other
authorities for investigation or inquiries or in view of the fact that criminal charges are pending against the
employee.
(o) The above provisions shall only apply in respect of inquiries that commenced after the date of signing of this
Agreement.
26. Technology.–
(i) The Fourth Schedule hereto contains matters relating to new Computer Based Banking Technology agreed
upon between the parties.
(ii) The Union will be free to make representations on matters relating to the introduction of new Computer Based
Banking Technology in the Bank other than on matters covered in this Agreement.
(iii) Notwithstanding the provisions of (ii) above, the Union will not be entitled to raise any industrial dispute on
matters relating to Computer Based Banking Technology, will not resort to any industrial action in that regard
and any representations/ dispute in that connection shall not fall within the meaning of an industrial dispute
under the laws of Sri Lanka.
(iv) It is agreed that any matter raised by the Union relating to the adverse effects of the use of computers shall be
referred to the Monitoring Committee set up under the Collective Agreement for resolution. In the event of the
Monitoring Committee not being able to satisfy the Union, such matter shall be referred to the Department of
Health and Safety of the Labour Department and the recommendation given by the Doctor-in-Charge shall be
accepted by both parties and where changes are necessary in terms of such recommendation the Monitoring
Committee shall prevail on the Bank to implement such changes.
27. Trade Union Action.–
(i) Matters Related and Covered in the Agreement.–
The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank
that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or
other form of Trade Union action including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of
collective action against the Bank in respect of any dispute related to this Agreement.

<!-- page 22 -->

22A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
(ii) Matters Not Related and Not Covered in this Agreement.–
The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank
that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of
Trade Union action including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective action
against the Bank in respect of any dispute that may arise on any matter not related to this Agreement until –
(i) The Branch Union of the Bank has exhausted all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably
with the Bank, at which stage the Branch Union shall notify the Bank in writing of its intention to refer
such matter to the Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union)
(ii) The Parent Union  (the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union) has intervened in the matter and has exhausted
all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the Bank and/ or the Employers’ Federation
of Ceylon.
(iii) In the event of there being no settlement at the level of conciliation aforesaid, the Parent Union has to
give notice in writing of not less than fourteen (14) days of the fact that there has been no satisfactory
settlement of the dispute and that it wishes to resort to trade union action. Such notice shall be given to
the Bank, the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon and to the Commissioner of Labour.
28. Union Check-off Facilities.– During the continuance in force of this Agreement and provided the Union has not
less than forty (40) percent membership among the Employees covered by this Agreement the Bank shall continue to grant
check-off, provided, however, that the Bank reserves the right to stop, suspend, or discontinue such facility in the event of the
Union violating any of the provisions of this Collective Agreement in relation to the Bank.
29. Implementation and Interpretation of this Agreement.–
(i) Where either the Union or the Bank are dissatisfied with the manner in which the Collective Agreement is
being implemented or where there is a complaint regarding the adverse effects of computer technology
change such matter shall be dealt with by a Monitoring Committee set up by the Bank consisting of two
representatives from the Bank and two representatives from the Union. The Bank or the Union may request
that a matter be placed before the Monitoring Committee by communication addressed to the Employers’
Federation of Ceylon setting out the cause of complaint.
Any dispute over the interpretation of the Agreement shall be settled by voluntary arbitration under
Section 3 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1950.
30. Consequences of Termination of Agreement.– On the termination of this Agreement all terms, conditions, benefits,
facilities and concessions enjoyed by the Union and/ or its members shall ipso facto cease.
31. Definitions.– In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings.
Bank Standard Chartered Bank.
Employee An employee covered and bound by this Agreement.
Employer Standard Chartered Bank.
Cost of Living Allowance The payment in lieu of the Cost of Living Allowance stipulated in the manner
set out in Clause 7 (l) hereof.
Parent Union The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
23A
Branch Union The Branch Union of the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union at Standard Chartered
Bank
Dispute A dispute shall have the same meaning as an Industrial Dispute in the
Industrial disputes Act and shall include any dispute arising between the
Bank and the Branch Union of the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union.
Salary Shall mean the consolidated salary as defined in Clause 5.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
 Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice vers.
THE  FIST  SCHEDULE
Clerical Salary Ranges
Rs. 16,500/- to Rs. 65,000/-
THE  SECOND  SCHEDULE
Maximum salary point would be as stipulated in the Salary Ranges in Schedule 1.
ID Name
1139930 Sirimanne, Moksha
1150141 Alwis, Sudath Dammika
1139766 Abayasekera, Dilruwani
1139923 Seneviratne, Harsha Indrajith
1139826 Hiri pitiya, Neli Lakshman
1139785 Emmanuel, Dinesh Francisco
1150298 Nissanka, Chandra Kumari
1197391 Udayanga, Don Yasantha
1234769 Nazoordeen, Mohammed
THE  THIRD  SCHEDULE
1. ( a) The benefits of the Scheme will accrue to the employee but will cover those persons specified in Clause 14 (iii)
of the Agreement. It shall be the duty of the employee to enroll members of his family immediately on becoming
eligible to be included in this scheme.
No reimbursements will be made in respect of members of the family who have not been enrolled.
2. Reimbursements will only be effected on hospitalization involving at least one night’s stay in a hospital.
3. The  Insurer must be notified promptly at the point of admission to hospital.

<!-- page 24 -->

24A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
4. The Bank will be entitled to take out Insurance Policies covering reimbursements under this scheme and the
employee shall be required to make declarations (including completion and signing of Insurance Proposal forms)
and submit documentation required by Bank/ Insurers in a proper form and timely manner to enable to the Bank to
obtain reimbursement from the Insurance Companies. The Bank will advise by internal circular issued from time to
time the documentary requirement and time limit within which documents should be submitted. Where an employee
does not comply, he will not be entitled to benefits under this scheme.
5. Employees shall up hold the principle of uberrima fides when making declarations and submitting claims under this
scheme and any deviation would disqualify the employee from received any benefit under this scheme. In addition,
the employee will be liable to disciplinary action in accordance with provisions set out in this Agreement.
6.  (a) The Bank will circulate by the internal circular published from time to time a list of Hospitals/ Nursing Homes,
expenses incurred at which, will be eligible for reimbursement under the scheme. Additions and / or deletions
to this list will also be made by internal circulars.
(b) If for reasons of geographical location any employee believes he may not be in a position to use any of the
Institutions given in the list, he may apply to the Bank in writing within 30 days of publication of the list of
amendments to the list  referred to in the preceding sub-paragraph, requesting special dispensation to use a
named Institution or Institutions and the Bank shall  consider such applications on a case by case basis and,
where deemed appropriate, will grant such special dispensation, provided however, that the decision of the
Bank on this matter shall be final and conclusive.
7. Exclusions .–
 The scheme shall not cover benefits / expenses :
(a) Arising from an injury sustained or a sickness contracted outside Sri Lanka or for treatement outside
Sri Lanka.
(a) Occasioned by or happening through,
(i) The participation by the employee or other eligible family members in War, Invasion, Act of Foreign Enemy,
Hostilities (whether war be declared or not), Civil War, Rebellion, Revolution, Insurrection, Mutiny or
Usurped Power, Military, Popular Rising or while serving as a member of any Defence, Police, Security Force,
Home Guard etc.
(ii) Attempted suicide, Alcoholism, Venereal Disease, Insanity and illnesses resulting from Acquired Immune
Deficiency Syndrome.
(iii) Normal child birth or pregnancy subject to clause 14 (iv). Provided that if an employee has been employed
for a continuous period of twelve months, the Bank will pay the Medical Expenses incurred for any
abnormality of maternity which is in excess of what a normal child birth would have cost. The responsibility
for furnishing the Bank with the required proof of the extra cost involved, such as a letter from the Doctor/
Hospital, will be on the employee who makes the claim.
(iv) Earthquake, V olcanic Eruption or Tidal Wave.
(v) Any other Insurance industry-wide accepted exclusions.
(c) Incurred whilst travelling in an Air Craft other than as a ticket holding passenger in a fully licensed standard
type of civil aircraft operated by a recognized  Air Lines on a regular route or in a fully licensed standard type
of civil aircraft having two or more engines operated by a recognized Air Charter Company or owned by a
Commercial or Industrial firm and piloted by a Pilot holding a Commercial Pilot’s License.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
25A
(d) In respect of Eye Test or Dental Treatment.
(e) Arising from any physical defect or infirmity which existed prior to confirmation in the Bank’s service.
8. The benefits under this scheme shall not be cumulative and the words “any one Year” in clause 14 (iii) of the
Agreement shall be deemed to be the period 1 st January to 31 st December. In the case of employees who join
during the course of a year the overall limit and event limit up to the period ending the next 31st December will be
pro-rated to the number of full months of service up to 31st December.
9. In respect of claims for hospitalization which span the end of any year, reimbursement will be made out of the
entitlement of either or both years, subject, however, to the event limit specified in Clause 14 (iii) of the Agreement.
THE  FOURTH  SCHEDULE
The parties agree to the following conditions in relation to the use of Computer Based Banking Technology by the
Bank covered and bound by this Agreement.
1. ( a) In selecting computers and related equipment, the Bank will attempt to obtain equipment which will ensure
the following :
(i) Screens that give clear stable images.
(ii) Proper sitting of keyboards so as to ensure the reduction of stress and improved maneuverability.
(iii) Equipment which is quiet in operation so that the level of noise is kept to a reasonable limit.
(b) The Bank will undertake proper servicing and maintenance to ensure optimum functioning of computers and
related equipment.
The Bank will pay attention to the proper positioning of screens, keyboards and provide facilities for placing
documents and ancillary equipment in a manner to facilitate the work of employees. The Bank will also endeavour
to provide lighting facilities to minimize visual fatigue in the operation of VDUs.
2. Accepting the fact that continuous work at a terminal by a Data Entry Operator causes a certain amount of strain,
the Bank is agreeable to a reasonable pause in entering information at or about the end of each period of 2 hours
so long as there is no disruption of the smooth flow of work and so long as such pause does not exceed 10
minutes.
3. The Bank agrees that they will not seek to retrench employees who become redundant solely and exclusively in
consequence of the introduction of new Computer Based Banking Technology. Instead, the Bank may avail itself
of any one or more of the following options:
(a) The aforementioned excess employees may be transferred to other sections / Departments to perform
work which is within their skill and capacity without reduction in salary and allowances which are in
force at such time in relation to such employees. This option refers to a transfer other than within the
scope of employment, which the Bank would under normal circumstances be entitled to effect.
(b) The Bank may, on a transfer within the scope of ( a) above, re-train an employee if the employers
consider it necessary.

<!-- page 26 -->

26A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2018
(c) The Bank will be entitled to negotiate with employees who are redundant for the reasons contemplated in this
Agreement, with a view to achieving a cessation of employment on terms mutually agreed upon and this will
not amount to retrenchment within the meaning of this schedule.
4 . For the purpose of this Agreement, retrenchment will mean an involuntary termination of the employees made
redundant consequent upon the introduction of new Computer Based Banking Technology. It will not include a
situation where such redundant employees voluntarily leave the service of the employer on terms mutually agreed
upon.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA
12 - 752