

<!-- page 1 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'05'20
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 20.05.2024
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) – PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
wxl 2385$08 – 2024 uehs ui 20 jeks i÷od – 2024'05'20
No. 2385/08 – MONDAY, MAY 20, 2024
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – PG6734 – 104 (05/2024)
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations
PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  OF  THE  CENTRAL  PROVINCE 
By - Laws
I, Lalith U. Gamage (Attorney-at-Law), Governor of Central Prov ince, hereby announce that, the Drinking Water Safety
By-law of Ambagamuwa Pradeshiya Sabha  in exercise of the powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under Section 126(ix) 
& (xiii) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, to be rea d with Sub-section (1) of 122 the said Act is approved 
as per the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section  123, of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act to be read with 
Sub-section (1) (a) of the Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, and the said by-law shall be
in force within the jurisdiction of the Ambagamuwa Pradeshiya Sabha from the date of publication of this Gazette Notiﬁ cation.   
 Lൺඅංඍඁ U. Gൺආൺ඀ൾ,
 Attorney-at- Law,
 Governor,
 Central Province.
Governor’s Oﬃ  ce,
Palace Square,
Kandy.
29th day of April, 2024
.


<!-- page 2 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'05'20
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 20.05.2024
 2A
Drinking Water and Water Catchment Safety By - Law of the
Ambagamuwa Pradeshiya Sabha
 01. This by-law is enacted in order to take measures for the s afety of drinking water and matters consequential thereto 
including regularization and Supervision of related water sourc es taking actions related to the conservation of water 
sources related to Water Projects maintained within the jurisdiction of Ambagamuwa Pradeshiya Sabha to protect the 
safety of drinking water in private and public use in order to secure the public health safety of the people living within the 
Pradeshiya Sabha jurisdiction.
 02. The Ambagamuwa Pradeshiya Sabha is conferred with powers t o make this by-law under Sub-section 122(1) of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Sections 126(ix) and (xiii) of the said Act.
 03. This by-law may be cited as the Drinking Water and Water C atchment Safety by-law of the Ambagamuwa Pradeshiya 
Sabha.
 04. The Ambagamuwa Pradeshiya Sabha shall maintain the followi ng information in relation to every source of water that 
supplies drinking water for the consumption of the public within its jurisdiction.
 (i) Name of Water Source
 (ii) Location
 (iii) Grama Niladhari Division
 (iv) Location Coordinates
 (v) Ownership / possession of land where water source is locat ed
 (vi) Access (should be outlined as possible)
 (vii) Nature of use ( Private / Public)
 05. When the water source is an underground water source, no person shall take any of the following actions within a radius 
of 15 meters from it:
 (i) Entering, corralling, tethering or maintaining animals in a manner that would permit their entry.
 (ii) Disposing, burying or depositing any waste.
 (iii) Setting ﬁ  res in the open space or taking any action that damages the water source.
 (iv) Perform excavations.
 (v) Taking any action to divert waste water through any drain or allowing the constructed drains to be maintained in a 
defective condition.
 (vi) Let surface water from any distance ﬂ  ow directly to the water source.
 (vii) Where the source of water is a shallow well, maintaining  water seepage into the well at a depth of less than 3 meters 
from the ground level.
 (viii)  When the source of water is a shallow well, in the cas e where cement and iron-reinforced concrete and well covers 
are used for the protection of the well, leaving the cement or the rust formed around the iron used for that to mix 
with the water.
 (ix) When the source of water is a shallow well, failing to ke ep the well clean and empty the well water within the time 
limits set by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha and the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or someone duly authorized 
by them.

<!-- page 3 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'05'20
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 20.05.2024
 3A
 06. In the case of a natural surface water source, no person shall take any of the following actions within the limit of 30 meters 
on both sides and above 10 meters below from the inlet.
 (i) Entering, corralling, tethering or maintaining animals in a manner that would permit their entry.
 (ii) Washing vehicles or any other machinery.
 (iii) Use for bathing.
 (iv) Disposing, burying or depositing any waste.
 (v) Setting ﬁ  res in the open space or taking any action that damages the water source.
 (vi) Performing excavations.
 (vii) Taking any action that would enable diverting sewage thr ough any drain.
 (viii) Use for any cultivation purpose other than aﬀ  orestation.
 (ix) The use of a bucket or any other instrument by any person  for taking out water, so that any waste may be mixed 
with the source of water.
 07. Except in case of a water project run by the National Wate r Supply and Drainage Board and in case of using a water 
source for domestic use, every person or organization running a drinking water project, using a water source shall obtain 
a license in accordance with the Second Schedule under this by-law from the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
 08. Every person applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for the same through an application made in accordance 
with the form set out in the ﬁ rst Schedule to this by-law.
 09. No license shall be issued by the Chairman unless every person applying for a license under this by-law has fulﬁ lled the 
conditions of this by-law.
 
 10.1. Water distribution in the instance where water is distri buted for consumption using only pipeed water system,
 (1) It should be veriﬁ  ed that the water distributed is subject to the standards issued by the Sri Lanka Standards 
Institute.
 (2) In case of the applicant is a community based organization , it must be registered under Pradeshiya Sabha or 
Community Water Department.
 (3) The plan including all the components related to the Water  Scheme should be submitted.
 (4) All components and constructions used for the water scheme  must comply with the criteria of the National 
Water Supply and Drainage Board.
 (5) When the main pipe system used for the water scheme is dep loyed on a private property, a conﬁ rmation 
must be submitted by the respective owner and when deployed on a property belonging to another authority,
a conﬁ rmation must be submitted by the relevant authority.
 (6) It should be ensured that the information requested under the application form regarding the employees 
expected to be employed under the water project and the relevan t information whenever the employees 
change is submitted.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'05'20
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 20.05.2024
 4A
 10.2. Where water is collected and distributed for commercial purposes using a bowser or a water container or any other 
tool,
 (1) It need to be veriﬁ  ed that the water distributed is subject to the standards issued by the Sri Lanka Standards 
Institute.
 (2) A conﬁ  rmation need to be submitted that the water is obtained under a water source maintained in accordance 
with this by-law.
 (3) A certiﬁ  cate obtained from the said Board that the requirements have been fulﬁ lled according to the orders 
issued under the Water Resources Board Act, No. 24 of 1964, regarding the source of water to be used and 
the water to be distributed need to be submitted.
 (4) The water provided for use need to be puriﬁ  ed under any method recommended by the Water Resources 
Board.
 (5) If any vehicle, container or any other tool is used to dis tribute water, information about the use needed to be 
submitted.
 11. In the event that a request is made for a license under this by-law, it is the duty of the Chairman to grant the desired license 
within one month of receiving the application or if it cannot be granted, to inform the applicant in writing of the reasons 
for the same.
 12. Fees for a license under this by-law shall be valid after being adopted by the Pradeshiya Sabha and published in the 
Gazette, subject to the Provisions of the Basic Law.
 13. Every person licensed under this by-law shall act in accordance with the following conditions:
 (i) The distributed water shall comply with the standards issu ed by the Sri Lanka Standards Institute.
 (ii) All components used for the water scheme must comply with  the criteria of the National Water Supply and Drainage 
Board.
 (iii) Actions must be taken to conﬁ  rm that the water obtained from the water source conﬁ rmed at the time of applying 
for the license will be used for the activities related to the license.
 (iv) Containers and other tools used for water distribution mu st be manufactured in accordance with the standards 
issued by the Sri Lanka Bureau of Standards.
 (v) The source of water used and the water distributed must be maintained in accordance with the orders issued under 
the Water Resources Board Act, No. 24 of 1964.
 (vi) Every worker employed shall not be a person suﬀ  ering from a skin disease or an infectious disease or a person who 
has been in contact with such a person.
 (vii) Sanitary and clean clothing shall be worn at all times o f employment and gloves shall be worn as prescribed.

<!-- page 5 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'05'20
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 20.05.2024
 5A
 (viii) In the event that orders are in force in accordance wit h the Disease Prevention and Quarantine Ordinance in the 
jurisdiction, the services shall be maintained in accordance with the conditions speciﬁ ed under those orders.
 (ix) Every employee who will be employed in connection with th e water project must be the person whose name is 
included in the information submitted at the time of application for the license or who is included in the information 
when submitting the information to the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha, if employed at any time thereafter.
 
 (x) The workers employed under the water project should be cer tiﬁ ed by a certiﬁ cate conﬁ rming that they are ﬁ t for 
work once in every six months or within the time limits recommended by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.
 14. Any water source within the jurisdiction is used under a l icense referred to in this by-law, no other person except the 
licensee shall make use of the said water source or maintain improper water connection with it.
 15. It is legal for the Chairman or any oﬃ  cer of the Pradeshiya Sabha speciﬁ cally authorized by the Chairman, at such time 
as may be deemed ﬁ t and reasonable to enter the premises where the source of water is located, take samples or request 
any other information deemed necessary for the purposes of the by-laws and in case of distribution of drinking water, 
carrying out necessary inspections regarding the water distributed or the containers and tools used for it and requesting 
information deemed necessary for that purpose in order to check whether the conditions mentioned in these by-laws are 
being maintained.
 16. A license issued under this by-law shall expire on the 31s t day of December of the year of issue, unless speciﬁ  cally 
revoked by the Chairman.
 17. In any case where any source of drinking water is being us ed or distributed contrary to the terms mentioned in this 
by-law the Chairman shall give a written notice to the licensee giving a reasonable time to comply with the by-law. The 
reasonable time so given should not exceed 14 days.
 18. In the event that any licensee fails to comply with the by-laws within the time limit provided under the above Section, the 
Chairman shall cancel the license issued under this by-law and notify the licensee in writing.
 19. Nonetheless anything mentioned under the above clauses of this by-law, when a license is applied for the ﬁ rst time in 
respect of any water project related to a license under this by-law and in the event that a license is applied for again with 
changes in relation to a water project related to a license under this by-law, the Chairman shall not issue such license 
unless it has been recommended by a Committee appointed by the Chairman to make such recommendations.
 20. For the purpose of Section 19 of this by-law and to make recommendations to the Pradeshiya Sabha to ensure the safety 
of drinking water in relation to water projects operating within the jurisdiction, there shall be a Committee consisting of 
the following:
 i. Chairman,
 ii. Secretary,
 iii. Technical Oﬃ   cer,
 iv. Environment Oﬃ   cer,
 v. Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health or an oﬃ  cer nominated by him.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'05'20
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 20.05.2024
 6A
 However, the above mentioned Provisions should not be a hindra nce to call any other oﬃ  cer nominated by the Chairman 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha to assist the Committee in order to achieve the objectives of the Committee as per the need of 
the service.
 21. Subject to a license referred to in this by-law, it is an oﬀ ense to act in contravention of Section 5, when using a water 
source without a permit or when operating a drinking water project and after being convicted by a Magistrate’s Court for 
the said oﬀ ence, such person shall be liable to the punishment mentioned under Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, 
No. 15 of 1987.
 22. If a person, institution or an organization running any wa ter project requests any time limit for complying with the 
conditions mentioned in this by-law in respect of a drinking water project subject to a license under this by-law which 
is in operation in the jurisdiction at the eﬀ ective date of this by-law, it is legal for the Chairman to grant a grace period, 
taking into consideration the recommendations of the Committee mentioned in the 20th by-law above. However, the 
grace period provided under this Section shall not exceed the period of one year from the eﬀ ective date of this by-law.
 23. Unless, otherwise required by the terms of this by-law, in this by-law:
  “Pradeshiya Sabha” means the Ambagamuwa Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Chairman” means the Chairman appointed for the Ambagamuwa Pr adeshiya Sabha, in accordance with the Local 
Government Elections Act or a person appointed in accordance with the written law to perform the duties and functions 
of the Chairman in case the Chairman’s oﬃ  ce is not in operation,
  “Waste” has the same meaning as given to waste in the Nationa l Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 as amended from time 
to time,
  “Authorized Oﬃ   cer” means an oﬃ  cer authorized in writing by the Chairman either generally or specially to perform a 
special function,
  “A Water Source” means a natural or artiﬁ  cial accumulation of water that leads to the use of surface wa ter or ground 
water for drinking water needs or a place that has the potential for public drinking water use.
SCHEDUL E No. 1
Application Form for License to Use Water Sources for Obtaining Drinking Water
 01. Name of the Applicant:
 02. Address:
 03. If the applicant is running a business, registration numbe r / if the applicant is a society the registration number of th e 
relevant society:
 04. The following information about the location of the water source:
 (i) Name of the Water Source:
 (ii) Location (should be outlined):
 (iii) Nature of the Water Source:

<!-- page 7 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'05'20
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 20.05.2024
 7A
 (iv) Grama Niladhari Division:
 (v) Location Coordinates:
 (vi) Ownership / possession of land where water source is loca ted:
 (vii) Access (should be outlined as possible)
 (viii) Nature of Use (Private / Public):
 5. Information about the workers employed for the Water Projec t:
Index
No. Name Address N.I.C. Number
 6. Information related to the vehicles used for the business:
Index
No. Vehicle No. Type of Vehicle
  The Chairman should be informed whenever the information in n umbers 05 and 06 above changes.
 7. Number of beneﬁ  ciaries identiﬁ ed under the proposed Water Project:
 8. Expected water capacity to be used daily:
  The following attachments should be submitted along with the completed application form:
 i. A copy of the constitution and a copy of the Society’s Regi stration Certiﬁ cate if a Society,
 ii. A rough plan certiﬁ  ed by an acceptable Technical Oﬃ  cer showing how the components related to the Water Project 
have been utilized,
 iii. The plan includes all the components related to the Water  Scheme,
 iv. Documents in which the permission has been given by the re levant authority in the case of deployment of the main 
pipe system used for the Water Scheme on a private property and in the case of deployment on a property belonging 
to another authority, by the relevant authority.
 Signature of Applicant.
Date:
(A copy of the document containing the relevant guidelines will be provided with this application)

<!-- page 8 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'05'20
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 20.05.2024
 8A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
SCHEDUL E No. 2
A permit is issued for running a drinking water project using a water source within the Pradeshiya Sabha jurisdiction.
 1. Licensee’s Full Name:
 2. Address:
 3. N.I.C. Number:
 4. Authorized Source of Water:
 5. Time allowed:
 
……………………
 Chairman,
  Pradeshiya Sabha.
Date:
EOG 05 – 0145