

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2449$71 - 2025 wf.daia;= ui 16 jeks fikiqrdod - 2025.08'16
No. 2449/71  -  SATURDAY,  AUGUST 16, 2025
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1A - G 45151 - 05 (08/2025) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
My No. : HA/05/20/01/01/34
NOTIFICATION
Appointments  under  the  Notaries  Ordinance
IT is hereby notified that the Honourable Minister of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Government, in 
terms of Section 05 of the Notaries Ordinance (Chapter 107), has made the following appointments with effect from June 
20, 2025.
1. Mrs.Welipitiya Maharalalage Thilini Anuruddhika Srimali of No. XB6/3/4, Edmonton Housing Scheme, Kirulapone, 
Colombo 06 Practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo .
2. Miss. Abirami Kugathasan of Pannagam, Chulipuram, Jaffna practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within 
the judicial zone of Jaffna .
3. Mrs. Shaamini Ramanathan of No. 114, Azarth Road, Jaffna Practicing as a Notary Public in English language within 
the judicial zone of Jaffna .
4. Miss. Dona Lakmali Kothalawala of Kurunduwatta, Rathmale, Polgampala Practicing as a Notary Public in English 
language within the judicial zone of Kalutara.
5. Mrs. Handunge Erandi Hasanika Perera of No. 23, Susantha Mawatha, Panadura Practicing as a Notary Public in 
English language within the judicial zone of Panadura.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'08'16
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.08.2025
2A
6. Mr. Tikira Hannadige Eshan Achintha De Silva of No. 4, 7th Lane, Pamunuwa Road, Maharagama Practicing as a 
Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
7. Mrs. Mohammed Sitheeque Fathima Sasna of No. 23/1, K.D.David Avenue, Maradana, Colombo 10 practicing as a 
Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
8. Mr. Varatharajah Thushyanthan of Kurumbaikaddy. Puloly South West, Point Pedro, Jaffna practicing as a Notary Public 
in English language within the judicial zone of Jaffna.
9. Mrs.Thachshayini Alagaiyah of No. 87A, P.T.K.Road, Vachikkuda, Akkaraipattu Practicing as a Notary Public in 
English language within the judicial zone of Kalmunai.
10. Miss. AIisandarage Dona Samoda Kaviduni Hewawasam of Palitha Hotel, Kosnathota, Godakawela Practicing as a 
Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Embilipitiya.
11. Miss. Wijesinghe Arachchilage Dewni Sandalika Wijesinghe of No. 45/2, Pathirage Road, Gangodawila, Nugegoda 
Practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
12. Mr. Nijabudeen Muhammadu Naalir of No. 1/3, Kambiyawatta, Gelioya practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala & 
English languages within the judicial zone of Kandy.
13. Mrs. Mohamed Zaheer Fathima Zameera of No. 12, Al-Aqsha First Lane, Kinniya 02, Trincomalee Practicing as a 
Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Trincomalee.
14. Miss. Galhenage Nayani Chamalka Perera of No. 103/12, Dr.G.Samarapala Perera Mawatha, Lake Road, Boralesgamuwa 
Practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
15. Mrs. Wadugedara Mudiyanselage Ravisha Samadhi Wadugedara of Bowaththa, Bingiriya practicing as a Notary Public 
in English language within the judicial zone of Kuliyapitiya.
16. Miss. Wele Parapayale Gedara Madhushi Wathsala Wimalarathna of No. 1/111, Udakendawala Melsiripura, Kurunegala 
Practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Kurunegala.
17. Mrs. Morakanda Gamage Priyanthi Manel of No. 113/2, Konakalagala, Alawathugoda practicing as a Notary Public 
in English language within the judicial zone of Kandy.
18. Mrs. Dodampe Gamage Thakshila Danushki of Halgahaowita, Lanumodara, Habaraduwa practicing as a Notary Public 
in English language within the judicial zone of Galle.
19. Miss. Korathota Liyanage Punsara Sewwandi of No. 163, Puhulahena, Polpagoda, Yakkalamulla, Galle Practicing as 
a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Galle.
20. Miss. Haris Gunawardanage Gamali Pradeepa Amarathunga of No. 156 1/5, Hulftsdorp Street, Colombo 12 Practicing 
as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
21. Mrs. GolIaheennalage Sudarshani Sepalika of Peedara Waththa, Edirisinghe Road, Kithulampitiya, Galle practicing as 
a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Galle.
22. Mr. Withanage Don Ajith Priyantha of No. 58/B, Kannangaragama, Mathugama Practicing as a Notary Public in English 
language within the judicial zone of Kalutara.
23. Miss. Sundaralingam Kajalini of Church Road, Kaluthavalai-02, Batticaloa Practicing as a Notary Public in English 
language within the judicial zone of Batticaloa.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'08'16
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.08.2025
3A
24. Mr. Lihiniya Godage Chamith Sudantha Jayasinghe of No. 86/A, Sri Somananda Road, Haburugala, Bentota Practicing 
as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Balapitiya.
25. Miss. Ganthihe Mudiyanselage Supuni Madhushika Jayarathna of “Jayanthi”, Kukulewa, Ambanpola Practicing as a 
Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Kurunegala.
26. Mrs. Garagodage Gothami Subodha Suvimali of No. C-57, Atala, Kegalle practicing as a Notary Public in English 
language within the judicial zone of Kegalle.
27. Mrs. Samarappuli Arachchilage Deepika Priyadharshani of No. 258/G, Wathurugama Road, Puwakwaththa, Bopeththa, 
Urapola practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.
28. Mr. Nipun Eranda Nihalsinghe of No. 152/1/13, Hulftsdorp Street, Colombo 12 Practicing as a Notary Public in English 
language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
29. Mrs. Pathiranage Sasika Udayanthi of No. 5/7, Tissa Gardens, Temple Road, Kalutara North Practicing as a Notary 
Public in English language within the judicial zone of Kalutara.
30. Miss. Udugama Koralalage Dona Malka Ishani of “Malka”, Meegama, Dharga Town Practicing as a Notary Public in 
English language within the judicial zone of Kalutara.
              By Order of the Honourable Minister,
 S. Alokabandara,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and
 Local Government.
Colombo,
July 04, 2025.
EOG 08 - 0182/1
My No. : HA/05/20/01/01/34
NOTIFICATION
Appointments  under  the  Notaries  Ordinance
IT is hereby notified that the Honourable Minister of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Government, in 
terms of Section 05 of the Notaries Ordinance (Chapter 107), has made the following appointments with effect from July 
25, 2025.
1. Miss. Razeek Fathima of No. 3/7A, Dewala Road, King Street, Matale Practicing as a Notary Public in English language 
within the judicial zone of Matale.
2. Mr. Balagurunathan Sakthinathan of  Ark Lane, Uduvil, Chunnakam practicing as a Notary Public in English language 
within the judicial zone of Jaffna.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'08'16
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.08.2025
4A
3. Mr.  Pangolle Gedara Dhanushka Ranjan of No. 46/B/l, Swarna Place, Suriyapaluwa, Kadawatha Practicing as a Notary 
Public in English language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.
4. Miss. Nethmi Lanchana Ramawickrama of No. 1B/F0/U15, Muwadora Uyana, Ferguson Road, Colombo 15 Practicing 
as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
5. Miss. Peramuna Arachchige Susinika of No. 11, Udakalagama, Bandagiriya, Hambantota Practicing as a Notary Public 
in English language within the judicial zone of Hambantota.
6. Mrs. Rathnamalala Irugal Bandaralage Dulanjala Nadeeshani Rathnamalala of No. 62, North East Park, Dammada 
Estate, Kiriwaula, Thorayaya Practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Kurunegala.
7. Mrs. Ranasinghe Arachchilage Ruwini Nimesha of No. 34, Kasiwaththapura, Polhena, Matara practicing as a Notary 
Public in English language within the judicial zone of Matara.
8. Miss. Dasini Chamalka Dalawella of No. 406/A, Uswatta Road, Nagoda, Kalutara practicing as a Notary Public in 
English language within the judicial zone of Kalutara.
9. Mrs. Nisha Nuwandi Hewavitharana of “Vimukthi” Horonduwa, Yatiyana, Matara Practicing as a Notary Public in 
English language within the judicial zone of Matara.
10. Mrs. Mayumi Malshadi Vidanapathirana of No. 285, 2nd Canal Road, Kaduruwela, Polonnaruwa Practicing as a Notary 
Public in English language within the judicial zone of Polonnaruwa.
11. Miss. Thambirajah Diruksha of Pillayar Kovil Road, Karaitivu-07, Ampara Practicing as a Notary Public in English 
language within the judicial zone of Kalmunai.
12. Mr. Herath Mudiyanselage Prabath Madhava Bandara Herath of No. 741/13, Stage 2, New Town, Anuradhapura 
Practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Anuradhapura.
13. Miss. Morawaththage Piyumi Kalpana of No. 300, Torrington Avenue, Colombo 05 practicing as a Notary Public in 
Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
14. Miss.Warnakulasuriya Kalugamage Nirmalie Melonica Fernando of No. 8/8A, Liyanage Mawatha, Nawala, Rajagiriya 
Practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
15. Mrs. Jayawardena Patabedige Sachinda Hasini Perera of No. 763, Perera Hardware, Anuradhapura Road, Dambulla 
Practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Matale.
16. Miss. Dissanayake Mudiyanselage Wathsala Nayani Dissanayake of No. 429/1, Main Street, Kuliyapitiya Practicing 
as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Kuliyapitiya.
17. Miss. Sethunga Mudalige Resha Ruwandi Rupasinghe of Hiyawala Road, Galayaya, Pannala Practicing as a Notary 
Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Kuliyapitiya.
18. Miss. Mathugamage Dona Madara Dulanjali Gunawardana Senevirathne of No. 11/10, St.Anthony’s Road, Welisara, 
Ragama practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Negombo.
19. Miss. Illangasinghage Sanduni Navodya Illangasinghe of No. 401/A, Jaya Mawatha, Polpithimukalana, Kandana 
practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Negombo.
20. Mr. Dilshan Thiwanka Karunaratne of No. 214/26, Borala Road, Weligama Practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala 
language within the judicial zone of Matara.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'08'16
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.08.2025
5A
21. Mrs. Rankoth Gedara Harshani Madhusha Kumari of No. 237/4, Athirahapitiya, Udatenna, Matale Practicing as a 
Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Kandy.
22. Mr. Bentota Kankanange Sanjeewa Amil Kumara of No. 54/2, Kekiriwatta Road, Galthude, Panadura Practicing as a 
Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Panadura.
23. Miss. Mangappuli Arachchilage Dinika Kithmini Dias of No. 11, Sri Priyadarshanarama Mawatha, Colombo 10 
Practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo .
24. Mr. Sivalingam Rishikeshan of Katpakapillaiyar, Kovilady, Uduvil Eaast, Chunnakam, Jaffna practicing as a Notary 
Public in English language within the judicial zone of Jaffna.
25. Mr. Mohaneswaran Ramanan of No. 414/7, Temple Road. Nallur, Jaffna Practicing as a Notary Public in English 
language within the judicial zone of Jaffna.
26. Mrs. Rathnayake Mudiyanselage Anjana Nishadi Shamila Rathnayake of No. 36, “Sanasuma”, Kahatagaha Watta, 
Katugasthota Practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Kandy.
27. Miss. Logatharan Shajitha of Mavilankai, Alaveddy North, Alaveddy, Jaffna Practicing as a Notary Public in English 
language within the judicial zone of Jaffna.
28. Mrs. Herath Mudiyanselage Madushi Laksara Dissanayake of Thummodara, Nattandiya Practicing as a Notary Public 
in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Chilaw.
29. Mrs. Malwaththa Mohottilage Dushmanthi of No. 175, Saranapalahimi Mawatha, Borella, Colombo 08 practicing as 
a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
30. Mrs. Rathnayaka Mudiyanselage Nirosha Hasanthika Rathnayaka of “Amila”, Gonathalawa, Dambagalla, Monaragala 
practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Monaragala.
31. Miss. Hansika Indumini Wijesingha Bandaranayake of No. 254, Pubudugama, Udumulla, Mulleriyawa New Town 
Practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
32. Mr. Abewardana Gunasekaralage Salith Jayangana of No. 152/1/13, Hulftsdorp Street, Colombo 12 Practicing as a 
Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
              By Order of the Honourable Minister,
 S. Alokabandara,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and
 Local Government. 
Colombo,
July 08, 2025.
EOG 08 - 0182/2

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'08'16
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.08.2025
6A
My No. : HA/05/20/01/01/34
NOTIFICATION
Appointments  under  the  Notaries  Ordinance
IT is hereby notified that the Honourable Minister of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Government, 
in terms of Section 05 of the Notaries Ordinance (Chapter 107), has made the following appointments with effect from  
July 25, 2025.
1. Mr. Kamburawala Kankanamge Gayan Pushpanath Ranaweera of No. 136/A, Samaranayake Mawatha, Haddagoda, 
Bandaragama Practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Panadura.
2. Mr. Ranga Ushad Abeysinghe of No. 16/1/A, Prathibimbarama Road, Kalubowila, Dehiwala practicing as a Notary 
Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
3. Mrs. Abeywickrama Gama Arachchige Akna Damsi Abeywickrama of No. 181/63, 3rd Lane, Welihenawatta, 
Siyambalagoda, Polgasowita Practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Homagama.
4. Miss. Thuduhenage Hemakei Lalithya Jayawardana of No. 236/1, Ranala Road, Dadigamuwa Practicing as a Notary 
Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Homagama.
5. Mrs. Mohamed Fawzer Fathima Fazrina of No. 6 B, Rosewood Garden, 6th Mile Post, Polgolla Practicing as a Notary 
Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Kandy.
6. Mr. Kanthasamy Jackson of No. 14, Dr. E.A. Cooray Mawatha, Colombo 06 Practicing as a Notary Public in English 
language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
7. Mrs. Goviwansha Hettige Ashini Sulakshana Perera of “Amashini”, Bandirippuwa, Lunuwila practicing as a Notary 
Public in English language within the judicial zone of Chilaw.
8. Mr. Meera Sahib Mohamed Ansar of  No. 130, Mal 3rd Lane, Vilinayady 3. Sammanthurai practicing as a Notary Public 
in English language within the judicial zone of Kalmunai.
9. Mr. Herath Mudiyanselage Punchi Banda Herath of No. 1557/4, Amuetamulla Road, Kottawa, Pannipitiya Practicing 
as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Homagama.
10. Mrs. Rathnayaka Adhikari Thenannehelage Lakmini Yashoda Rathnayaka of Malgahamulakotuwa, Alpitiya, 
Galapitamada Practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Kegalle.
11. Miss. Kankanamalage Dulanji Deepika Wimalasena of No. 178/B, Hamanda, Yatiyantota Practicing as a Notary Public 
in English language within the judicial zone of Avissawella.
12. Mrs. Abegunawardana Hetti Arachchige Oshimila Thusharika of No. 32, Denagama - East , Badabadda, Hakmana 
practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Matara.
13. Mrs. Mandridevi Sarathchandra Rajamuni of No. 23, Nikawala, Pugoda Practicing as a Notary Public in English 
language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.
14. Miss. Mahamalage Lourdith Ashinika Perera of No. 209, Minuwangoda Road, Udugampola Practicing as a Notary 
Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.
15. Mrs. Loku Enderage Ishani Kaushalya Pushpakanthi of No. 581/J/5, 10th Post Mile, Athurugiriya Road, Malabe 
Practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Homagama.
16. Miss. Bhashini Nimasha Wickramarathna of No. 5/2, Midella Kotuwa, KalEliya Practicing as aNotary Public in English 
language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'08'16
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.08.2025
7A
17. Mrs. Haneefa Agachan Aakila Banu of No. 121, Courts Road, Mawanella practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala & 
English languages within the judicial zone of Kegalle.
18. Mr. Medirikotuwe Gedara Anton Thilakaratne of No. 29, Mount Crescent Garden, 10th Mile Post, Malpana, Kengalla 
practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Kandy.
19. Mr. Rasika Chamara Edirisooriya of No. 31/2, Malwatta Road, Kohuwala, Nugegoda Practicing as a Notary Public in 
English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
20. Mr. Hikkaduwa Galppaththige Gamini Pushpakumara of No. 618, Kandy Road, Eldeniya, KadawathaPracticing as a 
Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.
21. Mrs. Biyanwila Kankanamalage Vijitha Niroshani Biyanwila of No. 463/C, Korathota, Kaduwela Practicing as a Notary 
Public in English language within the judicial zone of Homagama.
22. Mrs. Ethugalage Dilanthi Senanayake of No. 11/1, Imbulinna, Alapalawala, Wathura, Kegalle practicing as a Notary 
Public in English language within the judicial zone of Kegalle.
23. Miss. Yalagala Mudiyanselage Kalani Yashodha Jayarani Peiris of “Sanasuma”, Mudhaliwatte Road, Kadugannawa 
Practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of  Kandy.
24. Mrs. Jayasuriya Arachchillage Harshani Lakmali Gunarathna of Alugolla Road, Kandegedara, Dewalegama Practicing 
as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Kegalle.
25. Mrs. Dewa Bandanage Piumi Dilinika Wickramasinghe of No. 16/1/B, Nelumpathhinna, Pilawala, Kandy Practicing 
as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Kandy.
26. Mrs. Chandrasekara Mudiyanselage Sulakshana Madhavie Chandrasekara of Thalgahawatta , Weedi Road, Marawila 
Practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Chilaw.
27. Mrs. Balapuwaduge Judith Sriyonie Mendis of No. 88, Uyana Road, Lunawa, Moratuwa practicing as a Notary Public 
in English language within the judicial zone of Panadura.
28. Mrs. Lelwala Hewage Gihani Anuruddhika of No. 08, “Pathum”, Millagaha Watta, Palatota, Kalutara South practicing 
as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Kalutara.
29. Miss. Bambaragama Vitharamalage Ishanka Darshani of No. A/69, Nikawalamulla, Ruwanwella Practicing as a Notary 
Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Avissawella.
30. Mrs. Mohommedu Yahiya Fathima Raihana of No. 6/5A, Polgolla Road, Udathalawinna Practicing as a Notary Public 
in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Kandy.
31. Mrs. Achini Udeshika Sandamali Rajapaksha of No. 50/30, Yaya 18, Eraminiyaya, Angunakolapelessa Practicing as a 
Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Tangalle.
By Order of the Honourable Minister,
 S. Alokabandara,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and
 Local Government. 
Colombo,
July 08, 2025.
EOG 08 - 0182/3
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.