

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 571
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"062 – 2018 ud¾;= ui 09 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'03'09
No. 2,062  –  fRiday ,  MaRch 09, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29th March, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 16th March, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting).
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
569-B 81258- 5,403 (03/2018)
Note.–   chaya foundation (incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of february 23, 2018.
N. B.–   (i) Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,061 of 02.03.2018 was not published.
 (ii) the list of Registered Veterinary Surgeons upto 31.12.2017 has been published in Part Vi of this Gazette in English language. 
only

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.03.2018
570
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of	the	Examination	Hall	Staff.	If	there	is	an	urgent	need	for	a	candidate	
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should	be	tied	up	with	the	answer	script.	It	should	be	a	part	of	the	answer	
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside	the	Examination	Hall	should	not	be	taken	out.	If	a	question	has	been	
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes	of	colours	and	boxes	of	instruments	where	necessary	or	any	file	
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15.	Impersonation	while	answering	a	paper	or	before	the	commencement	
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		 Be		 at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper.	If	you	have	any	doubt	as	to	the	location	of	the	Examination	Hall,	
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)		In	case	of	any	doubt	regarding	your	entry	for	a	paper	or	eligibility	
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their	identity	cards	at	every	paper	they	sit.	If	a	candidate	fails	to	produce	
identification	documents	at	the	Examination	Hall,	his	candidature	is	liable	
to	be	cancelled.	In	case	a	candidate	forgets	to	bring	such	documents	into	
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis	paper)	will	be	supplied.	If	you	receive	any	stationery	that	is	different	
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index	Number	and	the	name	of	the	Examination	on	each	sheet	of	paper	
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of	 the	 problem.	 Necessary	 sketches,	 diagrams	 and	 figures	 should	 be	
accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		answer	running	into	serveral	pages	if	
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or	to	an	Invigilator.	Or	else	remain	in	your	seat	till	it	is	collected.		Failure	
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
	(xii)		If	it	becomes	necessary	for	you	to	speak	to	the	Supervisor	or	an	
Invigilator,	or	if	you	need	stationery,	remain	in	your	seat	and	raise	your	
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.03.2018
571
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
 OPEN  COmPETITIvE  ExAmINATION  fOR  RECRuITmENT  TO  ThE  SuPERvISORy 
mANAGEmENT  ASSISTANT  TEChNICAL  SERvISE  CATEGORy  (mN3-2006-(A)  Of  ThE 
mINISTRy  Of  hEALTh  NuTRITION  AND  INDIGENOuS  mEDICINE - 2018
aPPLicatioNS are called up to 09.04.2018 from the candidates those who have satisfied the following qualifications for 
recruitment under the open stream to the departmental technical posts at the hospitals and institutes under the Ministry of 
health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine.
Serial No. Post
01 draftsman
02 Technical Officer (Electric)
03 Technical Officer (Civil)
N.B :-
i.    the Gazette Notification issued on 06.02.2015 shall deemed to be cancelled
ii.   if applying for more than one post, separate applications should be forwarded for each
       Post, however, one envelope shall contain only one application .
iii . there will be a separate question paper on technical Knowledge for each post.
iV . applicants selected from this competitive examination shall be appointed to Grade iii of the above posts in 
the Sri Lanka technological Service.
V .   Eligible candidates will be selected on the merit basis on the results of this open competitive examination to 
fill the vacancies available at the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine and at the hospitals 
and institutions affiliated to the Ministry.
02. Qualifications :
02.1 Educational Qualifications and Vocational Qualifications :
Serial
No.
Post Educational Qualifications Vocational Qualifications
01. draughtsman (a) Should have passed G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination in one sitting in six (06) 
subjects with credit passes for Sinhala/
tamil/English Language, Mathematics 
and for tow other subjects
or
(b) Shall have completed NVQ Level 03
and
(c) Should have passed the G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination in one sitting in all 
subjects (Except the Genaral common 
test ) (should have passed three 
subjects in one sitting under the old 
syllabus)
or
(c) Shall have completed NVQ Level 04
(i) Shall have followed one year full time course 
in draughtsman
or
(ii) Shall have followed diploma course in 
draughtsman

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.03.2018
572
Serial
No.
Post Educational Qualifications Vocational Qualifications
02 technical
Officer
(civil)
(a) should have passed G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination in one than two sittings 
in six (06) subjects with credit passes 
for Sinhala /tamil/English Language, 
Mathematics and for two other 
subjects ;
or 
(b) Shall have completed NVQ Level 03 ;
And
(c) Should have passed the G. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination in one sitting in all 
subjects (Except  the General common 
test)( should have passed three 
subjects in one sitting under the old 
syllabus) ;
or
(d) Shall have completed NVQ Level 04
i. Shall have obtained the National diploma 
in technology (civil) conferred by the 
University of Moratuwa or hardy institute, 
ampara ;
or
ii. Shall have obtained the diploma in Engineering 
Science (civil) conferred by the National 
apprentice  and industrial training 
authority ;
or
iii. Shall have obtained the diploma in 
technology (civil) conferred by the open 
University of Sri Lanka ;
or
iV . Shall have obtained National higher 
diploma in Engineering (civil) conferred 
by the Ministry of Education and higher 
Education ;
or
V . Shall have obtained the National higher 
diploma in Engineering (civil) conferred 
by the institute of Engineers of Sri Lanka ;
or 
Vi  Shall have completed NVQ Level 5 or 6 in a 
field related to the post.
03 technical
Officer
(Electric)
(a) Should have passed G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination in one than two sittings, 
in six (06) subjects with credit passes 
for Sinhala/tamil/English Language, 
Mathematics and for two other subjects ;
or
(b) Shall have completed NVQ Level 03 ;
and 
(c) Should have passed the G. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination in one sitting, in all 
subjects  (Except the General common 
test) (should have passed three subjects 
in one sitting under the old syllabus) ;
or 
(d) Shall have completed NVQ Level 04
i.  Shall have obtained the National diploma 
in technology (Electrical) conferred by 
the University of Moratuwa or hardy 
institute,ampara ;
or
ii. Shall have obtained the diploma in Engineering 
Science (Electrical) conferred by the 
National apprentice and industrial training 
authority;
or
iii. Shall have obtained the diploma in technology 
(Electrical) conferred by the open University 
of Sri Lanka ;
or 
iV .  Shall have obtained National higher diploma 
in Engineering (Electrical) conferred by the 
Ministry of Education and higher Education ; 
or
V. Shall have obtained the National higher diploma 
in Engineering (Electrical) conferred by the 
institute of Engineers of Sri Lanka ;
or
Vi. Shall have completed NVQ Level 5 or 6 in a 
field related to the post

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.03.2018
573
03.Physical Fitness.- i.Every candidate should physically and mentally be fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and 
discharge the duties in the post.
04. Other Qualification.–  (i) Shall be of excellent character,
                                        (ii) Candidates shall have completed the above Qualifications required for recruitment 
to the post concerned in each and every way as at the date prescribed in the Notice 
of calling applications/Gazette Notification
05. Age Limit.- Shall not be above 30 years and below 18 years.
06.  Written test for recruitment :
 (a) Written test : 
Question Paper Syllabus Duration Total 
Marks
Pass
Marks
01. inttelligence 
test and General 
Knowledge 
a common question paper to test the candidates' Knowledge of 
the timely important matters at the national and international 
level relating to social,economic and the political fields and 
also on matters currently important in the fields of Technology, 
Science, Sports and Environment.
02 hours 100 40%
02.technical 
Knowledge
a separate question paper for each subject to check the 
technical Knowledge. Syllabus relevant to each post is given 
below.
11/2 
hours
100 40%
Post           Syllabus
01.draughtsman
02.Technical Officer 
(civil)
01. concrete
concrete mix 
concrete mix types and place
concrete curing methods
concrete mixing machines (Vibrator, Mixing drum)
concrete quality testis (slump test/cube test)
02.Roof 
ceiling types
calicut roof 
asbestos roof
03.calculating V olume and area of an object referring to a picture
04.timber used for contraction and safety methods in using timber
05.finishing done for walls and floor
     Plastering –plastering mix
     Places where plastering is used
     types of tiling –tile
      types of painting-paint and places they are used
03 .Technical Officer
(Electric)
01 Electrical Safety
02 Electrical equipment
03 (a) Residual current circuit Baker (RccB)
     (b) Miniature circuit Breaker (McB)
     (c) Earth Leakage circuit Breaker (McB)

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.03.2018
574
Post           Syllabus
ii. (a) timer
(b) Relays
(c) contactors
(d) overload Protection
(e) direct on - line starter
(f) Star - delta convert
iii. domestic circuit
07. Salary Scale.- Rs. 31,040 - 10x445 - 11x660 - 10x730 - 10x750 - Rs. 57,550. MN-03-2006(a) (in terms of the 
Schedule (i) of the Public administration circular No. 3/2016.
08. Terms of engagement in the service : 
 (i) Officers recruited should be willing to serve in any part of the island.
 (ii) the posts to which the candidates are appointed are permanent. therefore shall be subject to any policy 
decision taken by the government in future regarding the pension scheme entitled. further, selected 
candidates shall contribute to the Widows'/Widowers' and orphans' pension scheme. the amount of 
contribution shall be as determined by the government from time to time. 
09. applications that do not comply with the terms of this notice will be rejected. 
10. Receipt of the applications will not be acknowledged. applications received after the closing date will not be 
accepted. 
11. Eligible candidates will be called for the examination and they will be informed to the address mentioned in 
the application, two week before the examination. 
12. Method of application :
 (a) applications prepared according to the specimen form of application appended at the end of this circular 
should be sent under registered post to reach the director (admin.) 07 Branch, Ministry of health, Nutrition 
and indigenous Medicine, "Suwasiripaya", No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha, 
colombo 10 on or before 09.04.2018. the top left corner of the envelope containing the application should 
clearly bear the words "Recruitment (open) to the departmental Post of .................................. (mention 
the name of the post you apply for) belonging to the Supervisory Management assistant technical Service 
category (MN-03) of the Ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine - 2018". 
 (b) closing date of applications is 09.04.2018.
 (c) examination Fee.- the examination fee which is Rs. 500/- should be paid at any Branch of Bank of ceylon 
to be credited to the account in the name of the director General of health Services account No. 7041318 
at Bank of ceylon, thaprobane Branch. the receipt obtained from the Bank in paying the examination fee 
should be affixed not so as to be detached in the cage given under No. 07 of the application (Money orders 
and stamps are not accepted).
13. Attestation of the Signature.- Candidate's signature should be attested by an officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative 
Service/Sri Lanka Educational administrative Service/Sri Lanka accounts' Service/a Principal of a government school/
Justice of the Peace/Attorney-at-Law or a Public Officer in a permanent and pensionable post who draws an annual 
consolidated salary above Rs. 334,452.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.03.2018
575
N. B. :
 * applicants shall certify that every section of the 
application is perfected and that the particulars 
provided are accurate.
 * all candidates recruited as above shall be subject 
to all rules and regulations applicable to the Public 
Officers, provisions of the Establishments Code of 
the democratic, Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, 
provisions and rules of the Service Minute on Sri 
Lanka technological Service, policies prescribed by 
the Ministry of health, financial Regulations and 
to the rules, regulations and orders imposed by the 
government from time to time. 
 *  decision of the Secretary to the Ministry of health 
Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine shall be final 
on any doubtful matter which is covered or not 
covered by this General circular. in case of any 
inconsistency among the Sinhala, tamil and English 
texts of this circular the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 Janaka SugathadaSa, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of health, Nutrition and  
 indigenous Medicine. 
Ministry of health Nutrition and indigenous Medicine, 
Suwasiripaya,
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha, 
colombo 10,
on 22nd february, 2018.
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the 
Supervisory management Assistant Technical Service 
Category (mN 3-2006-(A) of the ministry of health, 
Nutrition and Indigenous medicine - 2018
district of residence 
Medium in which you sit the examination : 
Sinhala  - S 
tamil  - t
English  - E
01.  (i) Name with initials (in Sinhala) :––––––––––.
 (ii) Name with initials (in Block capitals) :–––––––––.
 (iii) Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil)  :––––––––––.
 (iv) Name in full (in Block capitals)  :––––––––––.
02.  Permanent address :
 (i) in Sinhala :––––––––––.
 (ii) in Block capitals :––––––––––.
03.  National identity card No. :––––––––––.
 t elephone No. :––––––––––.
04. Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka :––––––––––.
05. Sex (female/Male) :––––––––––.
06. district which the candidate states as his/her district of 
permanent residence :––––––––––.
07. date of Birth : 
 age as at 09.04.2018 : 
 y ears :––––––––. Months :––––––––. days :––––––––.
08. Married/Single :––––––––––.
09. Educational Qualifications : 
 (a) G. c. E. (o/L) Examination : 
  y ear :––––––––––. 
index No. :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10
 (b) G. c. E. (a/L) Examination : 
  y ear :––––––––––. 
index No. :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'03'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.03.2018
576
 (c)  Details of V ocational and Technical Qualifications : 
  y ear :––––––––––. 
index No. :––––––––––.
Certificate Institute issued 
the certificate
Year Subjects
  (Certified copies of the certificates relevant to the 
vocational and technical qualifications should be 
attached)
 (d) Other special qualifications and experience :–––––.
10. have you ever been convicted by a court of law ? (if 
yes, give particulars) :
 –––––––––––––––––
 –––––––––––––––––
11.  i solemnly declare that the particulars furnished by 
me in this application are true. i am also aware that 
if any particulars contained herein is found to be false 
or incorrect before selection my application will be 
cancelled and if so found after selection i am liable to be 
dismissed from the service without any compensation. 
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.
amendment 
ministry of Education 
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade III of Sri Lanka Teacher Educators' Service - 2018(1)
aPPLicatioN were invited through Gazette Notification dated 16.02.2018 for the Efficiency Bar Examination for officers 
in Grade iii of Sri Lanka teacher Educators' Service. 
the heading of the application of the Sinhala Medium Gazette Notification "Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers 
in Grade iii of Sri Lanka teacher Educators' Service - 2017(ii)". 
Should be revised as "Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade III of Sri Lanka Teacher Educators' Service 
- 2018(i)".
Furthermore, "Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade III of Sri Lanka Teacher Educators' Service - 
2017(II)" indicated in the paragraph 07 of the English Medium Notification should be revised as "Efficiency Bar Examination 
for officers in Grade III of Sri Lanka Teacher Educators' Service - 2018(I)".
 Sunil hettiarachchi, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Education. 
at the Ministry of Education,
isurupaya, 
Battaramulla, 
on the 28th day of february, 2018.
03–725
Affix here the receipt obtained from a Branch of Bank of 
ceylon by paying Rs. 500/- as not be detached.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
12.  attestation of the signature of the applicant : 
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ..........................................is 
known to me personally and he/she placed his/her signature 
in my presence on ........................
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the attestor. 
date :––––––––––.
full Name of the attestor :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
(Place the rubber stamp)
address :––––––––––.
03-487