

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2010
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1641$44 - 2010 fmnrjdß 18 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2010'02'18
No. 1641/44 - THURSDAY,   FEBRUARY   18,  2010
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
THE  URBAN  DEVELOPMENT  AUTHORITY  LAW,  No.  41  OF  1978
Order under Section  03
BY virtue of the powers vested in me under Section 03 of the Urban Development Authority Law, No. 41 of 1978, I, Dinesh
Chandra Rupasinghe Gunawardena, Minister of Urban Development and Sacred Area Development being  of the opinion that
the area specified  in  Column I of the Schedule, appended hereto, having  specified  metes and bounds in  corresponding
entry in Column II of the Schedule, is suitable for development, do by  this order declare such area to be an  Urban
Development Area.
D
INESH CHANDRA RUPASINGHE GUNAW ARDENA,
Minister of Urban Development and  Sacred Area Development.
Ministry of Urban Development and  Sacred Area Development,
“Sethsiripaya”,
Battaramulla.
05th February, 2010.
SCHEDULE
M
ALIGATHENNA  URBAN  DEVELOPMENT  AREA
Column I Column II
All the area of land within the Grama Niladhari Division,
No. 57 A Perahettiya (part), Grama Niladari Division
No. 57 B Wapassawela (part), Grama Niladhari Division 57 H
Maligathenna (Part), Grama Niladhari Division
55E Heennarangolla (Part), falling within the Hali Ela
Pradeshiya Sabha in the Divisional Secretariat Division of
Hali Ela in the Badulla District of Uva Province, is included
by the metes and bounds as specified in the corresponding
Column II.
North :
From a point  80 meters North -east wards on the centre
line of the Foot Path of Uva Highland Estate from the
point where the centre line of Bandarawela - Etampitiya main
road and the centre line of Uva Highland Estate foot path
meets ; thence, a line drawn North East wards along the
Northern boundary of Lot No. 16 of the Final Village Plan
No. 17 of Hali- Ela Divisional Secretariat Division until it meets
the centre line of service road of the new Division of
Uva Highland Estate ; thence, a hypothetical Straight line

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2010
2A
SCHEDULE   (Contd.,)
Column I Column II
drawn South-East wards until it meets the Northern point of
Lot No. 37 of the said final village plan ; thence, a line drawn
South-East wards along the Eastern Boundary of the Lot
No. 37 until it meets the Northern boundary of Lot No. 38,
thence, a line drawn North-East wards, South-East wards
along the northern boundary of Lot No. 38 Until it meets the
eastern boundary of the said Lot No. 38, thence, a line drawn
South-East wards along the eastern boundary of Lot No. 38
until it meets the northern boundary of Lot No. 40, thence,
a line drawn North-East wards and South-East wards along
the northern boundary of Lot No. 40 until it meets eastern
boundary of the said Lot No. 40.
East :
From the last mentioned point a line drawn South-West
wards along the eastern and southern boundaries of Lot
No. 40 until it meets the eastern boundary of Lot No. 44 ;
thence, a line drawn South-East wards along the eastern
boundary of Lot No. 44 until it meets the northern boundary
of Lot No. 9, thence, a line drawn east wards, South-East
wards, south wards, South-West wards and west wards along
the northern boundary of the said Lot No. 9 until it meets the
meeting point of eastern and northern boundaries of Lot
No. 48 ; thence, a line drawn South-East wards, South wards,
South-East  wards North-West wards and South-West
wards  along the eastern boundary of the said Lot No. 48
until it meets the centre line of Kirinda Arawa Stream (Kandura)
; thence, a line drawn  North-East wards along the center line
of Kirinda Arawa Stream (Kandura) until it meets the meeting
point of the northern and eastern boundaries of Lot No. 71 of
final Village Plan No. 50 ; thence, a line drawn South-West
wards, South-East wards, North-West wards, west wards,
South-West wards, South-East wards and South-West wards
along the eastern boundary of said Lot No. 71 until it meets
the meeting point of northern and eastern boundaries
of Lot No. 63 of the said plan ; thence, a line drawn South-
West  wards along the eastern boundary of Lot No. 63 until it
meets the meeting point of northern and eastern
boundaries of Lot No. 60 ; thence, a line drawn South-West
wards along the eastern boundary of Lot No. 60 until it meets
the meeting point of northern and eastern boundaries of Lot
No. 57 ; thence, a line  drawn South-West wards along the
eastern boundary of Lot No. 57 until it meets the meeting
point of  Southern and eastern boundaries of Lot No. 57 ;
thence,  a line drawn North-West wards along the southern
boundary Lot No. 57 until it meets the western boundary of

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2010
3A
SCHEDULE   (Contd.,)
Column I Column II
Lot No. 138 ; thence, a line drawn South-West wards,
South-East wards along the western boundary of the said
Lot until it meets the meeting point of southern and western
boundaries of same lot ; thence, a hypothetical straight line
drawn South-West wards crossing Panwewa Junction on
Bandarawela Ettampitiya Main Road until it  meets the
meeting point of northern and eastern boundaries of Lot No.
55 ; thence, a line drawn South-West wards along the eastern
boundary of   Lot No. 55 until it meets the meeting point of
northern and eastern boundaries of Lot No. 51 ; thence, a line
drawn South-West wards, South-East wards and South-West
wards along the eastern boundary of Lot No. 51 until it meets
the point on the centre line of unnamed Ela situated at a
distance of 140 meter South-West wards along  a straight line
drawn from the centre point of Panwewa Junction on
Bandarawela Ettampitiya Road.
South :
From the last mentioned point a line drawn South west
wards, West wards, South westwards, North west wards
and  South-West wards along the centre line of said unnamed
Ela to a distance of 460 meters.
West :
From the last mentioned point a straight line drawn North-
West wards through 9th Division of Uva Highland estate
until it meets the center line of Perahettiya Road at No. 09th
Junction ; thence a line drawn North Westwards, Northwards
and Westwards along the centre line of the said road until it
meets the centre line of estate service road near the
mosque ; thence, a line drawn North-Westwards and
North-Eastward along the centerline of estate service road
until it meets the center point of Kandakumbura  Maragaha
Junction ; thence, a line drawn North-Eastwards, South-
Eastwards, North-Eastwards, Northwards, North-Eastwards,
North-West wards, North-Eastwards, North-Westwards
North-Eastwards and Northwards along the estate service
road until it meets the centerline of Bandarawela Ettampitiya
main road ; thence, a line drawn Northeast wards along the
centre line of Bandarawela Ettampitiya main road until it meets
the centre line of foot path of Uva highland Estate ; thence,
a line drawn North-Eastwards along the centre line of said
foot path until it meets the starting point.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.
03-158