

<!-- page 1 -->

59 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'18
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.05.2012
wxl 1"759 - 2012 uehs ui 18 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'05'18
No. 1,759 – FRIDAY, MAY 18, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II — LEGAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE PAGE
Laws ... —
Bills ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
Notifications of Criminal Sessions of the Supreme Court —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... ––
List of Notaries ... ––
Miscellaneous Notices ... 60
59
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 25th May, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 11th May,
2012.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEW ARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
N.B.— Part  IV (A) of the Gazette No. 1,758 of  11.05.2012 was not published.
Note.— The Parents Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of February 24, 2012.
Bulathsinhala Janasakthi Mahasangamaya (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of February 24, 2012.
Sri Lanka Administrative Development and Research Institute (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of
the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of March 09, 2012.

<!-- page 2 -->

60  II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'18
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.05.2012
Miscellaneous Notices
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
In the High Court of the Western Province
(Exercising Civil Jurisdiction) Holden in Colombo
In the matter of an application for the
winding up of W Leo Fernando (Maddagedera)
Estates Company Limited.
Kanthi Fernando
No. 10, Wijesekera Place,
Kalutara South.
........................................................Petitioner.
Vs
W Leo Fernando (Maddagedera) Estates
Company Limited,
No. 1, Castle Terrace,
Colombo 08.
.................................................... Respondent.
Notice is hereby given that a Petition for winding-up of the
above named Company by the Commercial High Court of Colombo
was on the 23rd of January, 2012 presented to the said Court by
Kanthi Fernando of No. 10, Wijesekara Place, Kalutara South and
the said Petition is directed to be Mention before Court on the 17th
of May, 2012 and any creditor, or contributory of the said Company
desirous to support or oppose the making of an order on the said
Petition, may appear at the time of mention in person or by her
Counsel or registered Attorney for that purpose, and a copy of the
Petition will be furnished to any creditor or contributory of the
said Company requiring the same by the undersigned on payment
of the presribed charges of the same.
K. Upendra Gunasekara,
Attorney-at-Law for the Petitioner,
No. 135-1/3, Goonesinghepura Office Complex,
St. Sebastian Street,
Colombo 12.
Note.— Any person who intends to appear at the mention of the
said Petition must serve on or send by registered post to the above
named Attorney-at-Law Notice in writing of their intention to do
so. The notice must state that names and addresses of the persons
or if a firm the name and address of the firm and the same must be
signed by the person or the firm or his or her registered Attorney if
any, and must be served or if posted must be sent by registered
post in sufficient time to reach the above named not later than 4.00
o'clock in the evening 16th of May, 2012 at the above given address.
Attorney-at-Law for the Petitioner.
05-385
Case No. :
H. C. (Civil)
02/2012/CO