

<!-- page 1 -->

49
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024. 04'19
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka - 19.04.2024
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  II  — LeGAL
(Separate paging is given to each Language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
ImPoRTAnT   noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekL y  “GAzeTTe”
Attention is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 10th May, 2024 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 26th April 2024 
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2024.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
49 - 82561- 353 (04/2024)
 Page Page
 
Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... —
Miscellaneous Notices .... 50
wxl 2"381 - 2024  wfm%a,a ui 19 jeks isl=rdod - 2024 .04'19
no. 2,381 - FRIDAy ,  APRIL 19, 2024
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.- In English verson of Part VI Gazette No. 2378 which was published on 28.03.2024 the registered date of the name List of Veterinary Surgeons and 
Practitioners miss printed as 20.07.2020. It should be corrected as 01.03.2024. 

<!-- page 2 -->

50
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024.04'19
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka - 19.04.2024
Miscellaneous Notices
In The hIGh couRT  of The WeSTeRn PRovInce
(HOLDEN IN COLOMBO IN THE EXERCISE OF ITS CIVIL JURISDICTION)
IN the matter of an application for the winding up by Court, of 
the Company named Eastern Development Enterprises (pvt) 
Ltd. bearing Company registration No. PV 64628 No. 14, Reid 
Avenue, Colombo 07 under Part XII of the Companies Act, No. 
07 of 2007.
Stassen Exports (Pvt) Ltd.,
No. 833, Sirimavo Bandaranaike Mawatha,  
P. O. Box : 1970, 
Colombo 14.
..........................................Petitioner
notice is hereby given that a Petition dated 31st January 2024 for the Winding up of the above named Company by the 
Commercial High Court of the Western Province Holden in Colombo, Sri Lanka (in the exercise of its Civil Jurisdictions) 
was on the 01st of February, 2024 presented to the said Court by K. Upendra Gunasekara, Attorney-at-Law on behalf of 
the Petitioner aforesaid and that the said Petition is directed to be heard before the Court on the 03rd day of June 2024, and 
any creditor or contributory of the said Company desirous to support or oppose the making of and order on the said Petition 
may appear at the time of hearing in person or by his Attorney-at-Law for that purpose and a copy of the Petition will be 
furnished  to any creditor or contributory of the said Company requiring the same by the under signed on payment of the 
prescribed charge for the same.
K. Upendra Gunasekara,
Attorney-at-Law for the Petitioner,
135/1/3, Gunasinghepura Office Complex,
St. Sebastian Street,
Colombo - 12.
Note : Any person who intends to appear at the hearing of the said Petition must serve on or send by post, to K. Upendra 
Gunasekara, Attorney-at-Law, notice in writing of his intention to do so. The notice must state that the name and address of 
the person or if a firm the name and address of the firm and must be signed by the person or firm or his or their Attorney-at-
Law (if any) and must be served or if posted must be sent by post in sufficient time to reach the above named, not later than 
6.00 O' Clock in the afternoon 02nd day ot June 2024.
04-350
Case No : CHC/11/2024/CO
Nature : Winding Up
Case No : CHC/17/2024/CO
Nature : Winding Up
In The hIGh couRT  of The WeSTeRn PRovInce
(HOLDEN IN COLOMBO IN THE EXERCISE OF ITS CIVIL JURISDICTION)
IN the matter of an application for the winding up by Court, of 
the Company named Uni Walker Packaging Exports (Private) 
Limited bearing Company registration No. PV15106 of No. 
525/8, Thalahena Gardens, Kaduwela Road, Battaramulla under 
Part XII of the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007.
Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC.
No. 21, Sir Razik Fareed Mawatha, Colombo 01

<!-- page 3 -->

51
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024.04'19
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka - 19.04.2024
And
having a Branch Office and /or a Place of Business called and 
known as the ''Foreign Branch'' at No. 21, Sir Razik Fareed 
Mawatha, Colombo 01.
..........................................Petitioner
notice is hereby given that a Petition for the winding up on the above-named Company by the High Court of the Western 
Province (Holden in Colombo in the exercise of its Civil Jurisdiction) was, on the 29th February, 2024 presented to the said 
Court  by Commercial Bank of Ceylong PLC of No. 21, Sir Razik Fareed Mawatha, Colombo 01. And that the said Petition 
is directed to be hear before the Court on the 27th June 2024; and any creditor or contributory of the said Company desirous 
to support or oppose the making of an order on the said Petition may appear at the time of hearing in person or by his Counsel 
or Registered Attorney for that purpose; and a copy of the Petition will be furnished to any creditor or contributory of the said 
Company requiring the same by the under-signed on payment of the prescribed charges for the same
Mohamed Kalil Mohamed Irshad,
Attorneey-at-Law for the Petitioner,
No. 180, Bauddhaloka Mawatha,
Colombo 04.
Note : Any person who intends to appear on the hearing of the said Petition must serve on or send by post, to the above-named 
Mohamed Kalil Mohamed Irshad, Attorney-at-Law,  notice in writing of his intention so to do. The notice must state that the 
name and address of the person or if a firm the name and address of the firm and must be signed by the person or firm or his 
or their Attorney-at-Law (if any) and must be served or if posted must be sent by post in sufficient time to reach the above 
named, not later than 6.00 O' Clock in the afternoon of the 26th June, 2024.
04-349
p arliaMeNt 
a n a ct to i ncorporate the Colombo Chetty a ssociation of Sri l anka
I, (Dr.) (Mrs.) Sudarshini Fernandopulle, do hereby give notice, under Standing Order No. 53(1) of the Standing Orders of the 
Parliament of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, that I propose to introduce in Parliament a Bill titled "An Act 
to incorporate the Colombo Chetty Association of Sri Lanka".
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Association which has the following general objects :-
 1. To promote and foster the interests and welfare of the Colombo Chetty Community in all aspects.
 2. To provide opportunities for its members to participate in social intercourse, social contact and recreation.
 3. To provide assistance to needy students for the enhancement of their primary and secondary education.
etc.
 (Dr.) Sudarshini Fernandopulle,
 Member of Parliament,
 Gampaha District.
04-343

<!-- page 4 -->

52
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024.04'19
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka - 19.04.2024
p arliaMeNt
a n a ct to i ncorporate the Sadaham Sithuvili p adanama
I, Udayana Kirindigoda do hereby give notice under Standing Order No. 53 of the Standing Order of the Parliament of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka that I propose to introduce in Parliament a Bill entitled" An Act to incorporate the 
Sadaham Sithuvili Padanama"
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Padanama which has the following general objects :-
 (a) Establishing and maintaining educational institutions and hostels for male and female students.
 (b) Encouraging and promoting the education of poor children providing sponsorship to educational institutions in 
Sri Lanka
 (c) Providing necessary assistance to victims of natural calamities
etc.
 Udayana Kirindigoda,
 Member of Parliament.
04-344
 
p arliaMeNt
a n a ct to i ncorporate the Sri l anka a ssociation for i mproving Higher e ducation 
e ffectiveness
I, Ajith Mannapperuma, do hereby give notice under No. 53 (1) of the Standing Order of the Parliament of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, that I propose to introduce to parliament a Bill entitled ''An Act to incorporate the Sri Lanka 
Association for improving Higher Education Effectiveness".
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Association which has the following general objects :-
 (a) to support existing as well as emerging aspects of educational development in the Sri Lankan universities;
 (b) to assist in the transfer of socially relevant higher education policy as university practice;and
 (c) to provide a forum for the sharing of current and emerging ideas and information on teaching, learning and 
management in the university setting.
etc.
 Ajith Mannapperuma,
 Member of Parliament.
 
04-347
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.