

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'09
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.11.2016
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
w;s úfYI
wxl 1992$24 - 2016 fkdjeïn¾ ui 09 jeks nodod - 2016'11'09
No.  1992/24  -  WEDNESDAY ,   NOVEMBER   09,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial   Councils   Notifications
UV A   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Draft Statute No...... 2016 of the Uva Navodaya
FUND  OF  THE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  OF  UV A  PROVINCE
SUBMITTING as follows for Public views on the above draft Statute proposed to be implemented in the Provincial
Council of Uva Province.
Hereby inform that, this draft will be submitted to the provincial council of Uva Province after 10 days of publish
of this notice in special Gazette. If want to present any points regarding the content of the Statute, should inform these
points in writing to me to the following address within 10 days of this notice.
CHAMARA  S AMPATH D ASSANAYAKE,
Uva Province Chief Minister and
Ministry of Finance and Planning, Law
and Order, Local Government, Land, Power
and Energy, Construction and Rural
Infrastructure Development.
At Chief Minister’s Office,
Kings Street,
Badulla,
28th October, 2016.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'09
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.11.2016
2A
UV A   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Statute No....... /2016 of  Uva Navodaya Fund
The Statute No...../1992 of Uva Navodaya Fund is Statute to be substitute in order to provide financial assistance and
materials for the students in Uva Province those who got university entrance, talented students with the qualifications to
sit for advance level, to provide facilities to confirm the health of the school students in Uva Province, to appreciate the
students showing sporting talents, provide facilities, providing physical infrastructure facilities and to provide provisions
for other things related to this in order to support to uplift the sports skills.
Enact as such by the Provincial Council of Uva Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka.
01. This Statute will be identified as the Statute No......../2016 of Uva Navodaya fund, it will
come to effect from the date of approval by the Governor of  Uva Province.
(2). (1) (Hereafter will be mentioned as “fund”) a fund should be established mentioned as Uva
Navodaya Fund
(2) As per the name given in the paragraph (1) the fund is a corporation, There should be a
continuous survival and general stamp for that. Further cases can be filled by the fund and against the
fund by this name.
(03).(01). The administration, management and control of the fund should be assigned to the
administrative board constituted as per the of Provisions provided hereafter.
(2) (Hereafter will be mentioned as “board”) the administrative board of the fund should
include the following members :
(a) The Chief Minister ;
(b) The Education Minister of the Cabinet;
(c) Chief Secretary;
(d) The Secretary of the Education Ministry ;
(e) The Secretary of the organization in charge of this Statute ;
(f) Two representatives appointed by the Chief Minister, representing Tamil and Muslim
community;
(h) the opposition leader or the representative appointed by him.;
(3) The Chief Minister should be the Chairman of the Board ;
(4) The Secretary of the organization in charge of this statute should be the Secretary of this
board by ex-officio. The Secretary should be the Chief accounting officer of the board.
(5) The members appointed to board can resign by their own at any time by sending a letter
to the Chairman.
Short title and
Date of
Implementation
Establishing Uva
Navodaya Fund
Administrative
board of the fund

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'09
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.11.2016
(6) The following persons are not suitable to be appointed as a member of the board or
continue as a member of the board
(a) if a person in a situation can’t be released from liquidation and bankruptcy after
announced bankrupt by the laws existing in Sri Lanka or other countries.
(b) if a person committed crimes related to abuse against morality, which can be subjected
to imprisonment not less than six months.
(c) if a person is mentally upset or with mental disorders under the laws existing in Sri
Lanka.
(7) Under the provisions in paragraph (5) and (6) the tenure of the members appointed to the
board is three years.
(8) Members appointed to the board can be removed from the posts at any time without
citing any reason by the Chairman. A new member can be appointed to that vacancy by the Chief Minister.
(9) in case of the appointed member passed away, resigned or vacate the post before the
maturity of the tenure due other reasons the replacement member appointed can stay in the post for the
period not matured during the tenure of the predecessor.
(10) in case of conflicts in ideas among members the decision of the majority should bind
with power.
(11) Should not consider any act or activity powerless only for the reason there is a vacancy
among members of the board.
(12) The quorum for any meetings of the board should be  three members.
(13) Under the provisions of the (9) paragraph there should be a proper procedure relate to
the meetings of the board and conducting meetings.
(14) The meetings of the board should be conducted as per the orders of the Chairman or
once in two months.
4. The purposes of the fund should be as follows
(a) To provide financial assistance and materials for the students in Uva Province those
who got university entrance, talented students with the qualifications to sit for advance
level.
(b) Reward to appreciate the students of Uva Province, shows special talents in Education.
(c) To provide pure drinking water to confirm the good health of the students of Uva
Province and to provide infrastructure facilities prevent these children from specific
disease.
(d) To provide financial assistance and scholarship to improve the sports techniques of
the students of Uva Province, they show sporting talents accepted at District/Provincial
and national level.
The purposes of
the fund

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'09
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.11.2016
4A
(e) To improve and develop the infrastructure facilities and physical situation of the
existing sports grounds in support to improve the sports skill of the students and
members of the sports societies in general and to establish new grounds and facilities
in places without such facilities.
5. Stamp of the fund
(a) It should be in the custody of the person defined earlier by the board ;
(b) Can be changed by some way according to the decision of the board ;
(c) No register should be singed except in front of two members with the powers of the
board, these two should sign the register to witness their presence.
6. (1) The board has the powers to perform everything needed or the sequential things in the
name of the board to activate the purposes of the fund.
(2) Following should be the powers and duties of the board without damaging the powers
assigned according to the sub paragraph (1)
(a) Collection of funds and obtaining grants, gifts and donations from local and
international financial sources.
(b) The fund has the powers to acquisition and possession of movable or fixed assets
assigned to the board under this Statute or by purchase, by grant, by gift, by legacy or
by other means and has the powers to sell, mortgage, to rent, to donate, to assign, to
release, to exchange or to dispose by other means.
(c) To maintain a lottery system and collect funds under some existing law to improve
the purposes of the fund.
(d) To function by involving as a sub agent if there is no officer or employee given
straight or ad hoc in writing powers by the board through agreements or understanding
to implement the powers, functions and duties to perform the purposes of the fund.
(e) To construct a building or to make a sketch or to plan such things in the land owned
by enjoyed by the fund.
(f) With the approval of the board to invest the money owned by the fund including the
money of the Uva Navodaya Fund No. 01/1992 in legal investment, to reinvestment,
to change that investment, to cancel as per the wish of the board, to collect the income
generated by these investments.
(g) Opening bank accounts in banks as per the notice of the board and closing down the
bank accounts.
7. The money received from the following financial sources should be credited to the fund.
(a) Assistance given by the Uva Provincial Council to the fund ;
(b) Grants or donations in the form of money or others given by individuals or
organizations ;
Stamp of the fund
Power and Duties
of the fund
Composition of
the fund

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'09
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.11.2016
(c) Income received by the board through lottery organized by the board and carnival ;
(d) Income or interest received by investments ;
(e) Grants, gifts or donations from international donors ;
(f) All other incomes received by the board through other means ;
(g) By integrating the money of Uva Navodaya fund No. 1/1992
8. Following expenditure should be done by the fund :
(a) All the expenditures approved by the fund for the functions needed to fulfill purposes
of the fund.
(b) Expenses needed to establish, conduct and to implement the fund
9. (a) According to the necessity of the fund, all the officials and employees coming under
provincial public service commission can be used for the functions of the board for
a time period decided by the board based on the wish of the respective officials or
employees and the Chief Secretary.
(b) The service done by the officials and employees for the fund during this period should
be considered as a service done for the provincial council.
10. (1) The board should update and maintain their income, expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions in accordance with the accounting standard.
(2) In each year on the thirty first of December the board should take measures to calculate
the balance in the account books and should make arragements to prepare the income and expenditure
accounts for the respective year before the Thirty First of March of the next year and to prepare the final
accounts including the balance sheet, including the over view of the assets and liabilities to be prepared
on the date mentioned first.
(3) To implement the provisions mentioned in the paragraph (3), (2) can get the assistance
of an accountant of Uva Provincial Council as per the paragraph 9(a).
(4) The income and expenditure accounts and the balance sheet of the board should be certified
by two members of the board authorized for ad hoc through the approval of a proposal.
(5) According to the 154th constitution the accounts of the fund should be audited by the
Auditor General every year.
11. The calendar year should be the financial year of the fund.
12. (1). The amount incurred related to legal situations because of the case filed by the fund or
case filed against the fund in a courts, should be reimburse by the fund.
13. All the officials and employees of the fund should considered as government servants as
per the interpretations and functions of panel code.
Payments made
by the fund
Accounts and
Auditing
Financial year of
the fund
Reimbursement of
expenditure
The officials and
employees of the
fund should
considered as
government
servants under
panel code

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'09
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.11.2016
6A
14. Fund should be considered as an organization listed under the interpretations of the bribery
act .
15. The Statute of Uva Navodaya fund No. 1/1992 will be repeal from the date of implementation
of this Statute, no prejudice will done to all the activities carried out up to now by the Statute of  Uva
Navodaya fund No. 1/1992 and should considered as done by this.
16. If there is any inconsistency, between Sinhala, Tamil and English the Sinhala text may be
impose.
17. If there is any need for definitions in this statute.
Chief Minister as Uva Province Chief Minister
Cabinet Minister of Eudcation as Uva Provincial Cabinet Minister of Education.
Chief Secretary as Uva Province Chief Secretary
Secretary of Ministry of Education as Secretary of Uva Provincial Ministry of Education
Secretary of the organization in charge of this Statute as Secretary of the organization implementing the
activities of the fund according to the decision of the administrative board.
11-1090
Fund should be
considered as an
organization listed
under the
interpretation of
bribery act
Impose of Sinhala
when there is an
inconsistency
Definitions
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.