

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2011
1243
1243
wxl 1"719 - 2011 wf.daia;= ui 12 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'08'12
No. 1,719 – FRIDAY , AUGUST 12, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1246
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1249
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 19th August, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 05th
August, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEW ARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,718 of 05.08.2011 was not published .
Note.— Casimi Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka of 08th July, 2011.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2011
1244
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2011
1245
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2011
1246
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KURUNEGALA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 12th of September,
2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
26th July, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Kurunegala Nikaweratiya Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Wannihath  Pattuwa and   General,
Births and Deaths of Magul Othota District Secretariat,  Kurunegala.
Koralaya Division
08–322
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
GALLE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2011
1247
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 12th of September,
2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
26th July, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Galle Hikkaduwa Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
 of Wellaboda Pattuwa and Births and   General,
 Deaths of Dodanduwa Division   District Secretariat, Galle.
08–321
––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE
Calling Applications for the Appointment to the Post of Inquirer into Sudden Deaths under Section 108 of Code of
Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979
APPLICATIONS were called for the abovementioned post by Gazette Notification No. 1,705 dated 06.05.2011 of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka. The 2nd and 3rd paragraphs of the said notification are amended as follows :
Paragraph 02 :The words "closing date of applications is 31.05.2011" should be amended as "applications should be sent on or
before 09.09.2011."
Paragraph 03 :The words "This appointment is made to be valid until the age of 65 years and this age limit could be extended
upto 70 years on the submission of relevant recommendations and medical certificates" should be amended as
“The duration of this post may be extended for a maximum period upto 70 years of age at an interval of 5 years
on the submission of relevant recommendations and medical certificates”.
S
UHADA GAMALATH,
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice.
Ministry of Justice,
Colombo 12,
28th July, 2011.
08–369

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2011
1248
DEPARTMENT   OF   ELECTIONS
Recruitment to Posts of Office Labourers in Class III of
Office Employees’ Service - 2011
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka who have
the following qualifications to fill 20 vacancies in this Department
in Class III of the Office Emloyees’ Service. The closing date for
applications is 31st August, 2011.
02. Qualifications :
(i) Should have passed G. C. E. (O/L.) examination in one
sitting in not less than 06 subjects with at least two
credit passes. Pass in Sinhala/Tamil and Mathematics
will be considered as a special qualification.
(ii) Ability to serve in any part of the Island.
(iii) Only male candidates should apply.
(iv) Should be of good moral character and in a healthy
condition.
03. Salary Scale.– According to PL - 1- 2006 - A- P . A. Circular
6/2006 (iv)
Rs.11,730 - 10 x 120 - 10 x 130 - 10 x 145 - 12 x 160 - 17,600 per
month.
04. Age.– Should be more than 18 years of age and not more than
45 years of age on the date of closing of application.
05. Terms of Engagement and Conditions of Service: General :–
(i) The post is permanent and pensionable. Contribution
to the Widows’ and Orphan’s Pension Scheme has to
be made if selected to the post.
(ii) The appointment will be on probation for a period of
three years.
(iii) An Efficiency Bar test has to be passed within three
years from the date of appointment.
(iv) General conditions applicable to the appointment
appearing in the beginning of the Government Gazette
are applicable.
(v) Should obtain proficiency in the other Official
languages other than the language in which recruitment
was made 05 years rejoining the service in terms of
Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007.
06. Scheme of Recruitment.– The applicants will be subjected to
an interview to as certain the suitability of the applicants in terms
of General Conditions of appointment published in Gazette Extra
Ordinary No. 1589/30 of 20th February, 2009, Provisions in Office
Employees Service Minute No. 1258/20 of 18th October, 2002 and
Public Administration Circular No.24/95.
6.1. Marking Scheme at Interview  :
(i) Educational Qualifications (maximum marks 100).
(ii) Casual employment in the Department of
Elections (maximum of 50 marks based on the
period of service).
(iii) Special Qualifications 50 marks - Duplicating of
copies, photocopying, sorting of pages, book
binding, stores matters, Ballot Boxes etc.
6.2 Suitable applicants will be selected in the order in which
marks were obtained at the interview corresponding to
the number of vacancies.
07. Procedure for forwarding Applications  :
(a) Applications should be prepared by the applicant on
papers of the size 21 x 29 c.m. (A4 size) on both sides
of the paper according to the specimen application
form in this notice. The completed application should
be sent by registered post to reach the ''Commissioner
of Elections, Elections Secretariat, Sarana Mawatha
Rajagiriya, 10107" to reach him before 31st August,
2011. The words "Recruitment 2011 to KKS III Office
Labourer" should be written on the top left hand
corner.
(b) Applications misplaced in the post will not be
considered.
(c) The following photo copies (not originals) should be
sent with the application. Applications received
without copies will be rejected.
(i) Copies of two recently obtained character
certificates (One of the certificate should be from
the Grama Niladhari of the area in which the
applicant is resident).
(ii) Copy of the certificate of birth.
(iii) Copy of the G. C. E. (O.L) Certificate.
(iv) Copies of letters of appointment for casual
employment in the Department of Elections.
(v) Copies of other educational certificates (if available
only).
(vi) Copies of cerficates of experience (if available
only).
(d) The applications will not be acknowledged.
(e) Incomplete or late applications or applications not in
compliance with this notice will be rejected without
notice.
08. The signature of the applicant in the application should be
attested by a Justice of Peace or a Staff Officer of the Public Service
or by the Grama Niladhari of the area.
09. Identity of the Applicant - Any of the following identity
documents will be accepted at the interview :–
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons.
(ii) Valid Passport.
(iii) Valid Driving Licence.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2011
1249
10. Penalty for Providing False Information  :
Any applicant who is found before or after selection to be not
qualified, his candidature will be cancelled. If it is revealed after
being selected that an applicant has knowingly changed any
important information he will be dismissed from service.
11. Any matter not mentioned in this notice will be decided by
the Commissioner of Elections.
M
AHINDA DESHAPRIYA,
Commissioner of Elections.
Elections Secretariat,
Sarana Mawatha,
Rajagiriya,
29th July, 2011.
APPLICATION FORM
A
PPLICATION FOR POSTS IN CLASS III OF THE OFFICE EMPLOYEES’
SERVICE IN THE DEP ARTMENT OF ELECTIONS
01. ( a) Name with initials :––––––––––.
(b) Names identified by initials :––––––––––.
02. ( a) Address :––––––––––.
(b) District where resident :––––––––––.
03. ( a) Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––, Month :––––––––, Date :––––––––.
(b) Age on :––––––––.
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
(c) National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
04. ( a) Whether Citizen of Sri Lanka :––––––––––.
(b) Civil Status :––––––––––.
05. ( a) Educational Qualifications (G. C. E. O/L) :
Year :––––––––, Month :––––––––, Index No. :–––––––.
Subject Result Subject Result
1. ..................... ............ 5. ..................... .............
2. ..................... ............ 6. ..................... .............
3. ..................... ............ 7. ..................... .............
4. ..................... ............ 8. ..................... .............
(b) Details of Casual Service in the Department of Elections :
........... Name of District Reference number of
Election Office Applicant Letter
1.  ............... .................... ...........................
2.  ............... .................... ...........................
3.  ............... .................... ...........................
4.  ............... .................... ...........................
06. Higher Education and other qualification (if available) :–––––.
07. Experience (State only if available) :––––––––––.
08. The District in which you wish to serve (according to preference) :
(i) ––––––––––
(ii) ––––––––––
(iii) ––––––––––
CERTIFICATE OF APPLICANT
I certify that the information furnished by me in this application
are true and correct. I am aware that my application will be cancelled
if my information is found to be false before the selection and that
I can be dismissed from service without any compensation if the
information is found to be false after I am selected.
––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :––––––––––.
ATTESTING OF SIGNATURE
I certify that the applicant is personally known to me and that
he placed his signature in my presence.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Attestor.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
08–232
MINISTRY  OF  LIVESTOCK  AND  RURAL
COMMUNITY  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Animal Production and Health
RECRUITMENT  TO  THE  POSTS  OF  RESEARCH
ASSISTANT’S  IN  CLASS  IIB  OF  THE  SRI  LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL  SERVICE – 2011
APPLICATIONS are invited by the Director General of the Animal
Production and Health for the Sri Lanka Technological Service
Competitive Examination to recruit for the Posts of Research
Assistant in Class IIB of the Department of Animal Production and
Health.
02. Examination.– The examination will be held in September,
2011 in Kandy by the Director General of Animal Production and
Health. The right to postpone or cancel the examination shall be
with the Director General.
03. Conditions of the Service. – Recruitment, will be made for
Class IIB of the Research Assistants’ Service subject to the General
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2011
1250
Conditions of the Public Service and the following conditions
governing the appointments to –
(i) the selected officer is subjected to the conditions of
serving in any part of the Island ;
(ii) the officers, who are recruited under the Open Competitive
Examination will be on probation for a period of 3 years.
If a Public Officer already confirmed in a permanent post
in the Public Service is appointed. He will be subjected to
supervision for a period of one year. The officers who are
appointed by the Open Competitive Examination are
requried to pass the relevant First Efficiency Bar
Examination before confirmed in the post ;
(iii) all the o fficers who have recruited for the Public Service
should obtain the proficiency in an official language in
addition to the official language medium in which they
gained qualifications to enter the Public Service, within
05 years from the date of appointment ;
(iv) the selected officer is subjected to the orders of the Public
Services Commission, Provisions of the Establishments
Code, Financial Regulations, Provisions and Regulations
issued by the Government from time to time and orders
of the Ministry and Department.
04. Salary Scale.– MN-3-2006A- Research Assistants’ Service
Class IIB
Rs. 15,005 - 4 x 180 - 6 x 240 - 11 x 320 - 20 x 360 -
Rs. 27,885.
(Monthly as per Public Administration Circular 07/2008)
The salary scale for this Grade IIB should pass the 1st
Efficiency Bar Examination before the 3rd increment.
05. Age Limit :
(a) Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 45
years at the closing date of the application. This maximum
age limit does not apply for the officers who are already
in the Public Service ;
(b) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(c) Should be physically fit.
06. Educational Qualifications :
Should have obtained the Diploma in Animal Husbandry
from Sri Lanka College of Animal Husbandry ;
and
Should have passed G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) examination in
not more than two sittings in 06 subjects with Credit
passes for Language or Literature/Arithmetic/
Mathematics ;
or
Pass in any other examination similar to it.
Note.– If the person who have obtained a Diploma from
the Open University of Sri Lanka have passed the
Foundation Course relevant to that course, they can be
released from requirement of completing the G . C. E.
(Ordinary Level).
07. Method of Recruitment.– The candidates who have fulfilled
the basic qualifications should sit for the competitive examination
which will be conducted by the Department of Animal Production
and Health.
The candidates who have obtained 40% or more marks for each
paper prescribed for the general competitive examination will be
called for a viva voce on merit basis. No marks will be given for the
interview and recruitments will be made on the basis of the order of
the total marks obtained at the examination by the candidates who
have fulfilled the necessary qualifications.
08. Examination :
(i) Medium of examination will be in Sinhala/Tamil/English.
(ii) Candidates can select the medium of the examination.
(iii) Permission will not be given to change the medium applied
for at the Examination.
(iv) The examination fee is Rs. 300. The receipt of the money
order drawn in favour of the Director General, Department
of the Animal Production and Health encashable at the
Post Office, Peradeniya should be affixed to the relevant
cage in the application.
(v) Subjects.– The examination will be consisted of two
question papers :–
(i) Intelligence Test ;
(ii) Question paper in Technology.
Syllabus :
(a) Intelligence Test – time 01 hour – 100 marks
This question paper is designed to examine the logical
reasoning, analytical thinking and the ability to take
decisions.
(b) Question paper in Technology  – time 01 hour – 100
marks.
This includes the subjects given below :
(i) Identification and maintenance of laboratory equipment.
(ii) The tests used for diagnosis  :
Pathology
Parasitology
Microbiology
Serology
Nutrition
(iii) The tests used for Animal Husbandry  :
Physical tests
Chemical tests
Sensitive tests
(iv) Cleanliness of the Laboratory, sterilization.
(v) Obtaining samples storing and transport.
09. Method of Application.– The application should be prepared
in accordance with the specimen application form attached to this
notification. Application should be prepared on paper 8 1/2" x
12"(A4) using both sides of it.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2011
1251
The application should be sent under Registered Cover to reach
the Director General, Department of Animal Production and Health,
P. O. Box 13, Getambe, Peradeniya on or before 30.08.2011. The
words “Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to the Post
of Reserch Assistant’’ should be written clearly on the top left hand
corner of the envelope. The applications received after the closing
date will be rejected.
Note.– The candidates who are in the Public Service should
forward their application through the Head of the
Department/Institute.
Incomplete applications will be rejected. No allegation that
an application has been delayed or lost in the post will
be considered.
 Applications will not be acknowledged. If admissions are
not received within four days prior to the date of the
examination, the candidates are requested to inform
the Director General, Department of Animal
Production and Health with the following particulars :–
(i) Full name of the applicant,
(ii) Address,
(iii) Date of Posting, Registered No. and Post Office.
10. The Photostat copies of the following should be attached to
the application :–
(i) Certificate of Birth,
(ii) Educational Certificates,
(iii) Diploma Certificate in Animal Husbandry.
Identity of the candidate.– Every candidate is required to prove
his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
Supervisor. The following documents are accepted for that
purpose :–
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner
General of Registration of Persons,
(ii) A Valid Passport (Issued 3 years prior to the date of the
examination).
Submission of false information. – If it reveals that a candidate
has not gained the required qualification to sit for the examination
his/her candidature can be cancelled before or during the period or
after the examination or at any stage. If it appears that a candidate
has submitted a false information knowingly he/she will be liable to
disqualification.
The candidates should draw their attention and adhere to the
general conditions pertaining to the appointment to the Public Service
stipulated at the commencement of Part I (IIA) of this Gazette
notification and rules and regulations for the candidates.
11. The Director General, Department of Animal Production
and Health reserves himself the right to take a decision with regard
to a problem arisen about a fact which is not mentioned in the
Gazette notification or about the number to be recruited and that
will be the final decision.
Dr.  W. K. D
E SILV A,
Director General (C. D.),
Department of Animal Production and
Health.
Department of Animal Production and Health,
Peradeniya,
25th June, 2011.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
MINISTRY OF LIVESTOCK AND RURAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
DEP ARTMENT OF ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH
Application for the Post of Research
Assistant in Class II of the Sri Lanka Technological
Services – 2011
Medium selected
(Write the relevant number in the cage) (For office use only) 
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
01. Name :
1.1 Name with initials (in block letters – English) :––––––.
1.2 Name in full (in Sinhala) :–––––––––.
1.3 N. I. C. No. :
02. Address :
2.1 Private Address :––––––––––.
2.2 Official Address :––––––––––.
2.3 The Address to which the Admission Card to be sent
:––––––––––.
03. Sex : (Mark the relevant cage)
3.1 Female
Male
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at the closing date of the application :
Years : Months : Days :
3.4 Civil Status : (Mark the relevant cage)
Married
Unmarried

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2011
1252
04. Educational Qualifications :
4.1 G . C. E. (A/L) :
Year :––––––––––. Month :––––––––––.
Subjects Grade Index No.
4.2 (a) The institute from where the Diploma was obtained
:––––––––––.
(b) The year in which the Diploma was obtained :––––.
05. The present occupation and the previous appointments held :
Post Institute From To
06. The name of the post office to which the examination fees had
been paid :––––––––––.
No. of the Money order :––––––––––.
The examination fee Rs. 300. It can be paid to any post office
in the island in favour of the Director General, Department of
Animal Production and Health. Affix the receipt here.
07. I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct. I am also aware that if any of
the information furnished by me is found to be false or
incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified before selection or to be
dismissed without any compensation if such detection is made
after appointment.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
Relevant only for the officers who are holding permanent posts
in the public service at present.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
The above particulars furnished by the officers were checked
and found to be correct and if he/she is selected for the above post
he/she can be/cannot be released.
–––––––––––––––,
Head of the Department.
(The Official Seal)
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
08–357
DEPARTMENT  OF  ANIMAL  PRODUCTION  AND
HEALTH
Competitive Examination for the admission to the Sri
Lanka School of Animal Husbandry – 2011
TWO YEAR DIPLOMA IN ANIMAL HUSBANDRY (FOR
THE ACADEMIC YEARS 2011/2013)
APPLICATIONS are being called for the competitive examination
for the admission of students for the academic years 2011/2013, to
follow the Diploma course in Animal Husbandry conducted by the
Department of Animal Production and Health. This examination is
due to be held in Kandy on September, 2011 in Sinhala and Tamil
medium.
02. Two year Diploma Course :
2.1 The course will be conducted in Sinhala/Tamil and
English medium.
2.2 The Diploma course in purely a vocational training
course (in case of obtaining a government employment,
the extra qualifications specified in the Scheme of
Recruitment relevant to the particular post are essential
additionally to these professional qualifications.)
2.3 Lodging will be provided for the students during the
period of training but students should supply additional
finance for their extra requirements.
2.4 Classes may be held on Saturdays and Sundays and
students will be allowed to leave their hostel in one
weekend of the month.
03. Qualifications to be fulfilled at the admission :
3.1 (a) Should have passed the General Certificate of
Education (Ordinary Level) in not more than two
sittings with six (06) subjects including four (04)
credit passes in language (Sinhala/Tamil), Maths,
Science and one of the subjects of Social Studies or
Agriculture. At this, should have passed minimum
of 05 subjects in one sitting with credit passes for
three subjects ; and
Should have passed the General Certificate of
Education (Advanced Level) in three subjects in one
sitting Botany, Chemistry, Physics, Zoology, Agri-
Science and Biology. (priority will be given at
selecting the applicants with this qualification) ; or
(b) Should have passed the General Certificate of
Education (Ordinary Level) in not more than two
sittings with six subjects including 04 credit passes
in Sinhala/Tamil, Maths, Science and one of the
subjects of Soci al Studies or Agriculture. At this,
should have passed minimum of 05 subjects in one
sitting with credit passes for three subjects ; and

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2011
1253
Should have passed the General Certificate of
Education (Advanced Level) in two subjects in one
sitting Botany, Chemistry, Physics, Zoology, Agri-
Science and Biology. Applicants with these
qualifications will be selected as the availability of
the vacancies, subsequently selecting the applicants
of 3.1(a).
(c) If the applicant wishes to follow the course in English
medium. Should have obtained a credit pass for
English at the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examinations
and pass the General English subject at the G. C. E.
(Advanced Level) Examination.
3.2 The candidates should be not less than 17 years and not
more than 25 years at the closing date of the applications.
3.3 The candidates are requested to read carefully the
required qualifications in 3.1 and 3.2 which due to be
fulfilled at the admission. Applications will be rejected
if the candidate have not completed the required
qualifications and/or are not within the required age
limit.
3.4 Applicants with pending results of G. C. E. (A/L) are
not qualified to apply for this. The students those who
are following a two year course in Animal Husbandry at
a Government Department or a Government Institution
are not eligible to follow this course.
3.5 Candidates who wish to follow the course in Sinhala/
Tamil medium should appear the placement test in the
language medium that he/she wishes to follow the course.
3.6 If the applicant wishes to follow the course in English
medium, he/she should face an English test paper
additionally the two papers stated in 5.2.
04. Procedure of applications :
4.1 The applications should be prepared by the applicant
on a paper size A4 as per the specimen application
form appearing at the end of this notice. Applications
which are not duly completed will be rejected without
any notice.
4.2 The examination fee is Rs. 150. The candidates should
forward money order with application to the value of
Rs. 150 in favour of Director General, Animal Production
and Health to withdraw from the post office Peradeniya
and only the edge of the money order should be affixed
in the application. Further photostat copy of the money
order should be kept for your own safety. Examination
fee is not refundable in any reason. The fee paid for this
examination is unable to be transferred to another
examination. The application without the affixed money
order will be rejected without any information.
4.3 Completed applications should be sent only by
registered post to reach the Director (Human Resource
Development). Department of Animal Production and
Health P . O. Box 13, Peradeniya on or before 15.09.2011.
4.4 On the top left corner of the envelope containing the
application "Admission to the School of Animal
Husbandry 2011/2013" to be clearly mentioned.
4.5 The copies of the educational certificates and the birth
certificate should be attached to the application. The
application which do not comply with this requirment
will be rejected.
05. Mode of selection :
5.1 Selections of students will be done by a written
examination and interview by this department.
5.2 Syllabus for the written examination is as follows :–
(i) Animal husbandry. – Multiple choice and short
questions prepared according to the section of
Animal Husbandry in Agriculture syllabus
prescribed for (G. C. E. (O/L) ;
(ii) General knowledge :
5.2.1 English paper will be prepared as to be based
on the G. C. E. (O/L) Syllabus.
5.3 Any kind of allowance will not be paid in case of
appearing for the written test or the interview or both.
5.4 Candidates will be required to prove their identity at
the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor.
For this purpose any of the following documents will
be accepted.
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the
Department of registration of persons.
(ii) A valid passport issued within the period of
three years on the date of examination.
Dr. W. K. D
E SILV A,
Director General,
Animal Production and Health (c.d.).
Department of Animal Production and Health,
P. O. Box 13,
Gatambe,
Peradeniya,
26th July, 2011.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2011
1254
APPLICA TION
DEP ARTMENT OF ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH
SRI LANKA SCHOOL OF ANIMAL HUSBANDRY TWO YEAR
DIPLOMA IN ANIMAL HUSBANDRY 2011/2013
Language medium in which the
applicant wishes to sit :
01. Name in full (in legible letters) :––––––––––.
02. Name with initials :––––––––––.
03. N. I. C. No. :––––––––––.
04. Address :––––––––––.
05. D. S. Division :––––––––––. District :––––––––––.
06. Date of birth :
Year :––––––––––, Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
07. Age as at 15.09.2012 :
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
08. Educational qualifications :
09. (i) G. C. E. (O/L) :
Grade
Subject Ordinary/Credit/ Year Index No.
Distinctions
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
(ii) G. C. E. (A/L) :
Grade
Subject Ordinary/Credit/ Year Index No.
Distinctions
1.
2.
3.
4.
(The copies of the educational certificates should be attached.
The applications without the educational certificates will be
rejected).
10. Post office to which the fee was paid and the receipt No. :
––––––––––.
(Please attach the money order to the application enabling to
detach it when necessary)
11. Last School/Institution attended :––––––––––.
12. Date of leaving :––––––––––.
13. Experience in Animal husbandry gives the particular :––––––.
(Copies of the certificates should be attached)
14. Experience in the Rural Development/Agriculture/Social Service/
Sports :––––––––––.
(Copies of the certificates should be attached)
15. Names and addresses of two referees :
01. .............................. 02. .............................
.............................. .............................
I do hereby certify that the above particulars furnished by me
are true and correct according to my knowledge. I am also aware
that if any particulars contained herein are found to the false or
incorrect after the selection my studentship will be terminated and
I am liable to pay any expenses incurred on account of my training.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
Note :
Copies of the certificates/documents attached herewith.
1.
2.
08–338
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.