

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2009
1261
1261
wxl 1"617 - 2009 wf.daia;= 28 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'08'28
No. 1,617 – FRIDAY , AUGUST 28, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1214
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 1214
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 03rd September, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 21st
August, 2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.– Part I/IIA and II of the Gazette No. 1,616 of 21.08.2009 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2009
1262
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2009
1263
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2009
1264
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  SOCIAL  SERVICES  AND  SOCIAL
WELFARE
Recruitment of Graduates to the Post of Counselling
Assistant
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lanka Citizens with the
following qualifications for the above post in the Ministry of Social
Services and Social Welfare.
1. Terms of engagement and Conditions of Service :
(i) The post is permanent and pensionable ;
(ii) The provisions of Section 10-12, Chapter (II) of the
Establishment Code will apply ;
(iii) Selected candidates will be subject to the provisions of
the Establishment Code, the Financial Regulations or
any other Regulations or orders issued from time to time
by the Government ;
(iv) The appointment will be on probation for a period of
three years ;
(v) Selected candidates should serve at least 03 years in the
District appointment is given.
District vacant, medium and number of posts are as follows :
Jaffna - T amil - 02
Batticaloa - T amil - 01
Anuradhapura - Sinhala - 01
Polonnaruwa - Sinhala - 01
Ampara - Sinhala - 01
2. Salary Scale.– In terms of the Public Administration Circular
No. 6/2006(iv), the post carries a salary scale of (MN 4/2006-A)
Rs. 15,215-10 x 215 - 4 x 240 - 7 x 320 - 15 x 360 - Rs. 25,965.
3. Basic Qualifications :
(i) The candidate should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 45
years of age on 31.09.2009 (This maximum age limit will
not apply to those who are already in the Public Service
or the Provincial Public Service).
4. Educational Qualifications. – Special Degree in Psychology
awarded by a recognized university or completion of one year
Diploma Course in Counseling at a recognized institution with a
degree from a recognized university.
5. Method of Recruitment. – Recruitment will be made after a
structural interview. Applicants with maximum marks will be
selected.
Method of Application. – Candidates are required to prepare
applications in conformity with the specimen form given below.
Duly completed applications should be sent under registered cover
to "the Secretary, Ministry of Social Services and Social Welfare",
Sethsiripaya, Battaramulla to reach on or before 30.09.2009.
Applications from applicants who are already in the Public Service
must be forwarded through the Head of the Department and must
be accompanied by a certificate starting that the officer can be
released if selected.
Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. The words
"Recruitment to the Post of Counselling Assistant" should be
mentioned on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the
application. Late applications and incomplete applications without
necessary qualifications will be rejected without any notification.
The Secretary of the Ministry of Social Services and Social
Welfare reserves the right of deciding matters with regard to
recruitment and filling or not filling the total number of vacancies.
V.  J
EGARASASINGAM,
Secretary,
Ministry of Social Services and
Social Welfare.
05th Floor, Sethsiripaya,
Battaramulla,
10th August, 2009.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
R
ECRUITMENT OF GRADUATES FOR THE POSTS OF COUNSELING ASSISTANT
IN THE MINISTRY OF SOCIAL SERVICES AND SOCIAL WELFARE
For office use only
Medium
01. Name with initials : Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––.
02. Name in full :––––––––.
03. Permanent Address :––––––––.
04. Present Residential Address :––––––––.
05. Present Residential District :––––––––.
06. National Identity Card No. :
07. Gender :––––––––.
08. (i) Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––, Month :––––––––, Date :––––––––.
(ii) Age (as at 30.09.2009) :
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :–––––––.
09. Nationality :––––––––.
10. Civil Status :––––––––.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2009
1265
11. Details of the Degree :––––––––.
(i) University :––––––––.
(ii) Date of award of Degree :––––––––.
(iii) Special/General :––––––––.
(iv) Subjects :––––––––.
(v) Class : First/Second Upper/Second Lower :––––––––.
(vi) Medium :––––––––.
12. Other relevant educational/V ocational qualifactions (Post
Graduate/Diploma) if any :
(i) ––––––––.
(ii) ––––––––.
(iii) ––––––––.
13. Language proficiency (Mark ( 3) in the relevant cage) :
V ery good good fair week
Sinhala
Tamil
English
14. Experience :––––––––.
Declaration of the candidate :
I .................. hereby declare that the information furnished
above are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I
further declare that I have not been dismissed from the public
services or retired from the service due to inefficiency as an
option and not been considered as a person who has vacated
the post.
I am liable to be dismissed from service if it is revealed that I am
not eligible after selection to the post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––.
IF THE CANDIDATE IS IN THE PUBLIC SERVICE THE RECOMMENDATION OF
THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................ is a permanent/temporary/
casual .................... in this Ministry/Department and he/she can/
cannot be released if selected.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department.
Designation :––––––––.
Ministry/Department :––––––––.
Date :––––––––.
08–674
–––––––––––––––
Correction
MINISTRY   OF   LANDS   AND   LAND   DEVELOPMENT
Land Commissioner General's Department
RECRUITMENT OF COMPUTER DATA ENTRY
OPERATOR
NOTICE referring to the recruitment of Computer Data Entry
Operator in the Land Commissioner General's Department,
Published under vacancies in para (IIa) of Section I in the
Government Gazette No. 1,613 dated 31.07.2009 in corrected as
follows :
Last date of receiving application in corrected as 21.08.2009.
S. D. A. B. B
ORALESSA,
Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General's Department,
No. 07, Hector Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
08–686
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
Kegalle District
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should not be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2009
1266
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. Could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretaries, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development Societies
and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 25th September 200 9.
E. M. GUNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
06th August, 2009.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for Address to Which
Secretariat Division Which Applications are called Applications Should be sent
Kegalle Mawanella Post of Registrar of Marriages (Kandyan/ ) District Secretary/ Additional
General) in Galbada Korale Division and Registrar General, District
Births and deaths in Meda Pattu Division Secretariat, Kegalle.
08-589
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths – Puttalam District
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of  Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. Could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rulal Development Societies
and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries, Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 25th September 200 9.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
06th August, 2009.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2009
1267
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post For Address to Which Applications
Secretariat Division Which Applications are Called should be sent
Puttalam Mahawewa Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
in Pitigal Korale South Division and General, District Secretariat, Puttalam.
Births and deaths in Walahapitiya Division.
08-588
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars-Marriages, Births and Deaths – Nuwara-Eliya District
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 18th September, 20 09.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
31st July, 2009.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary’ s Division applications are called applications should be sent
Nuwara Eliya W alapane Post of Registrar of Marriages (Kandyan/General) District Secretary/Addi. Registrar
of Walapane Division and Births and Deaths of General, District Secretariat,
Yatipalatha Division. Nuwara Eliya.
Nuwara Eliya W alapane Post of Registrar of Marriages (Kandyan/General) District Secretary/Addi. Registrar
of Walapane Division and Births and Deaths of General, District Secretariat,
Udapalatha South Division. Nuwara Eliya.
Nuwara Eliya Ambagamuwa Post of Birth and Death Medical Registrar District Secretary/
of Hatton Dick-Oya Town Division Addi. Registrar General, District
Secretariat, Nuwara Eliya.
08-590

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2009
1268
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
DEPARTMENTAL  EXAMINATION  FOR  PRELIMINARY  GRADE  MEDICAL  OFFICERS  AND  DENTAL
SURGEONS,  SEPTEMBER – 2009
IT is hereby notified that the Departmental Examination for Preliminary Grade Medical Officers and Dental Surgeons which should  be
passed by Preliminary Grade Medical Officers before promotion to Grade II in terms of Section 07 of the Minute of Medical Offic ers in
the Health Services, published in the Gazette (Extraordinary) No. 662/11 of 17.05.1991 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka,
and which should be passed by Dental Surgeons before confirmation in the service will be held on 27.09.2009 in Sinhala, Tamil and English
Media. The venue and the time of the examination will be notified along with the Admission Card.
02. Qualifications.– Preliminary Grade Medical Officers and Dental Surgeons who have not completed the relevant examination
can apply for this examination.
03. Applications.– Applications prepared by the candidates as per specimen appended to this letter should be sent under
Registered cover to reach the Director (Examinations), "Suwasiripaya", No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10, on or before 11.09.2009 through their Heads of Institutions. The Head of Division should certify the accuracy of co ntents
in each application. A self addressed envelope in the size of 9" x 4" inches, affixed with stamps to the value of Rs.30.00 shou ld be sent
along with the application. (Candidates can write their official or private address) Applications which are received late, inco mplete or
inaccurate will be rejected.
04. Examination Fees :-
(i) Candidates who sit the examination for the first time need not pay examination fees. However in every subsequent sitting
they should affix stamps to the value of Rs. 25 per subject in the stamps cage provided for in the application and cancel
same by placing their signature and the date.
(ii) The fees once paid will not be allowed to transfer for any other Examination or refunded under any circumstances.
(iii) If you did not receive your admission card due to any unavoidable reason you can trace your examination centre and
the index number through the web site ; if you were able to trace your examination centre and the index number as
mentioned above you are permitted to be presented at the examination centre in the web site together with a letter
attesting your signature by your immediate superior officer and sit the examination by establishment of your identity.
(Web site - WWW.health. gov.lk).
05. Admission to the Examination :-
(i) Candidates whose applications have been accepted will be issued with Admission Cards. They should duly complete and
submit same to the Supervisor at the Examination centre. Otherwise they will not be allowed to sit the examination.
(ii) Candidates should prove their Identity to the Supervisor at the examination hall. For this purpose one of the following
documents will be accepted :–
(a) National Identity Card ;
(b) Departmental Identity Card ;
(c) Driving License ;
(d) Passport.
06. Scheme of the Examination.– The examination will consist of three written question papers and a Sinhala/Tamil Viva V oce
test. Each part will receive 100 Marks. Candidates should score a minimum of 50 marks for a pass in each part. The Examination can be
completed at one sitting or at several sittings.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2009
1269
07. Syllabus of the Examination :
7.1 Written Examination
7.1.1 Establishments Code
Duration 02 hours. Should answer five (05) out of eight (08) questions. Total Marks 100.
Syllabus
(i) Establishments Code
(a) Part I - Chapters II, III, V , VI, VII, VIII, IX, XI, XII, XIII, XV , XXIV, XXV , XXVII, XXVIII, XXX,
XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII,
(b) Part II - Chapters XLVII and XLVIII
(ii) General Regulations of the Department of Health Services
(iii) Orders of the Public Service Commission
7.1.2 Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries.
Duration 1 1/2Hours. Total marks 100. Should answer four (04) questions out of seven (07) questions.
Syllabus
Health Manual
Part I - Medical Services
Part II - Laboratory Services
7.1.3 Acc ounts
Duration 02 hours. Should answer 04 questions out of 07 questions. Total Marks 100.
Syllabus
(i) Financial Regulations - Part I
Chapter I - All Sections
II - All Sections
III - All Sections
IV - All Sections
V - Sections 1, 2, 3 4 and 6
VI - All Sections
VII - Sections 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6
(ii) Regulations of Stores Accounts of the Department of Health Services
(iii) Sections of Finance in the manual of the Department of Health Services
(iv) Financial Regulations relating to the daily routine duties of a Medical Officer of Health
7.2 Viva Voce - Sinhala/Tamil.– The Staff Officers in the Department of Health Services will conduct this Examination
in Colombo to examine the proficiency in Sinhala/Tamil Language. Total Marks 100. Skills of Officers to discuss on
matters pertaining to their daily routine duties will be examined.
08. Please bring the contents of this circular to the notice of all relevant officers in your Division/Specialized Campaign/
Institution. The information is also available in the Web site - www.health.gov.lk (The results of the examination hold in March 2009 are
due to be issued before 15th August 2009).
I. T. W
EERASINGHE,
Deputy Director General (Admin) II,
For Director General of Health Services.
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Welfare,
"Suwasiripaya",
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mw.,
Colombo 10,
12th of August, 2009.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2009
1270
Specimen form of Application
DEPARTMENTAL EXAMINATION FOR PRELIMINARY GRADE
MEDICAL OFFICERS AND DENTAL SURGEONS - SEPTEMBER 2009
For office use only
01. ( a) ( i) Name of the Applicant (in Sinhala or Tamil with initials at the end) :–––––––––.
(ii) Name of the Applicant (In English Capitals with initials at the end) :
(iii) Names denoted by initials (In English Capitals) :
(b) (i) Designation (Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon)  :–––––––––.
(ii) Date of Internship appointment  :–––––––––.
(iii) Date of appointment to the preliminary Grade  :–––––––––.
02. Subjects Offered (Mark " 3" within the cages against the subjects you offer in this examination. Mark "X" against the subjects not
offered) :
Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries Acco unts
Establishments Code Sinhala Viva Voce
Tamil Viva Voce
03. Medium you sit for the examination (Sinhala/English/Tamil) :–––––––––.
04. ( a) Present Station :–––––––––.
(b) District of the Present Station :–––––––––.
(c) The nearest Nursing Training School for you to sit for the examination :–––––––––.
(d) Please mark " 3" in the relevant cage of the examination centre you prefer out of the following centers. (If any or several
examination centers, out of those given below, would be cancelled due to a Departmental requirement or due to absence of a
sufficient number of candidates. In such an instance, the candidates already attached to such centers would be re-attached to a
closest examination centre or to another centre as decided by the Director General of Health Services).
Colombo Kandana Hambantota Ampara
Kaluthara Galle Badulla
Kurunegala Anuradhapura Rathnapura
Kandy Batticaloa Jaffna
(e) Whether a self-addressed envelop in the size of 9 x 4 inches with stamps affixed to the value of Rs.30.00 has been attached to
the application to post the Admission Card? :–––––––––.
(f) (i) Postal Address to post the Admission Card (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
(ii) Postal Address to Post the Admission Card (in English Capitals) :–––––––––.
05. ( a) Whether you sit for the examination for the first time :–––––––––.
(b) If not so, have you affixed stamps to the application ?
Stamp Cage

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2009
1271
06. Certificate of the candidate :-
(i) I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge and I nee d
not affix stamps since I sit the Examination for the first time/have affixed stamps to the value of Rs......  since I repeat th e
Examination, * and the stamps affixed by me to the application are genuine and not used.
(ii) I agree to abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by the Department of Health for the conduct of this Examination and
if I was found ineligible in accordance with the scheme of the Examination I agree with whatever decision taken for the
cancellation of my candidature.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
2009
Date :–––––––––.
07. Certification of Head of Institution :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss..... is well known to me and in the Application are correct in accordance with the particulars available in his/
her* personal file and he/she* is eligible to sit for the Examination. he/she * sits the Examination for the first time/repeats the Examination
* he/she * need not affix stamps/has affixed stamps to the value of Rs......... to the application and he/she * placed his/her*  signature in
my presence.
–––––––––,
Signature of Head of Institution/Frank/Rubber Stamp.
2009
Date :–––––––––.
08. Certificate of the Head of Decentralized unit/specialized Campaign :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss....... serves as a Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon* in my Division/Campaign* and the Particulars furnished by
him/her* in the Application are correct in accordance with the particulars available in his/her* personal file and he/she* is eligible to sit for
the Examination.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Decentralized Unit/
Specialized Campaign
(Frank/Rubber Stamp).
Date :–––––––––2009.
08-660
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS  II  GRADE  II   OF  THE  SRI  LANKA
SCIENTIFIC  SERVICE  – 2007 (2009)
APPLICATIONS are invited for the vacancies in Class II of the Sri Lanka Scientific Service existing in the following Government
Departments as indicated against each, The applications should be in the form of the specimen appended to the notification and should
be prepared on a paper of size 8 1/2 x 12 inches (A4) is such a way that Nos. 1-6 appear in the first page. Completed applications should
be sent by registered post to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations, Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla on
or before 25th of September, 2009. The top left corner of the envelope containing the application should bear clearly the title, "Examination
for Recruitment to Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Scientific Service 2007 (2009)"
Separate applications need not be sent for each post applied for and the post applied should be indicated in the application in
the order given in this Notification. For example, a candidate who wishes to apply for the vacancies of the posts of Assistant Director,
Research Officer etc. in the Department of Agriculture, should indicate the relevant Code Numbers as G - 7, G - 8 in the Code N umber
Column in the application

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2009
1272
Department Vacant Posts Code
Number
1. Department of National Zoological Gardens 1 Assistant Directors 0011
2. Department of Government Analyst 2 Assistant Government Analyst 0022
3. Department of Irrigation 3 Assistant Soil Chemist 0033
4. Department of Wildlife Conservation 4 Assistant Director 0044
5. Department of Labour 5 Research Officer 0055
6. Department of Sri Lanka Railways 6 Chemist and Metallurgist 0066
7. Department of Export Agriculture 7 Assistant Director 0077
8 Research Officer 0078
8. Department of Forest Conservation 9 Assistant Conservator of Forests 0089
9. Department of Measurement Units Standards and 10 Assistant Director 0910
Services
10. Department of Meteorology 11 Meteorologist 1011
2. Terms of Engagement and Conditions  of Service :
(i) The post is permanent and pensionable. The appointment will be subject to a probation period of three years.
(ii) The selected candidate should be prepared to serve in any part of the Island and will be subject to serve in the Provincial
Service as well.
(iii) A selected candidate will be appointed to Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Scientific Service on the general conditions
governing appointments in the Public Service. The terms and conditions set out in the Minute of the Sri Lanka Scientific
Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 509/7 of 07th June,
1988 and subject to any amendments made or to be made hereafter to the Minute will also be applicable for such
appointment.
(iv) Appointment of any candidate, who fails to assume duties of the post appointed on the prescribed date and/or who
rejects or averts to assume duties in the post or the area appointed is liable to be cancelled.
3. Structure and the Monthly Salary Scale .– Salaries will be paid in terms of the provisions of Public Administration Circular
No. 06/2006.
Class I - Rs. 36,755 - 17x 1,050 - Rs. 53,555
Class II - Rs. 30,175 - 8x790 - Rs. 35,705
Class II - Rs. 22,935 - 10x645 - Rs. 29,385
(Salaries shall be paid in terms of the provisions of Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 and officers should pass the 1st
Efficiency Bar Examination within 03 years from the date of appointment and the 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination within 06 years from
the date of appointment as per Public Administration Circular No. 20/2001)
Note :
(i) First Efficiency Bar :
Should pass the first Efficiency Bar Examination, which shall consist of the following subjects
(a) Financial Systems ;
(b) Administration ;
(c) Departmental Regulations ;
(ii) Second Efficiency Bar :
Should obtain a Postgraduate Degree such as M.sc./M. Phil. or Ph. D. as laid down in the prescribed Scheme of
Recruitment
4. Educational and other qualifications relevant to the posts.–
All applicants should furnish satisfactory evidence to prove the following
4.1 Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
4.2 Should be of an excellent moral character and sound physical health ;

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2009
1273
4.3 Should be over 22 years and less than 35 years of age before the closing date of applications, The upper age limit shall not
apply for  internal applicants who are eligible to apply for the relevant post as indicated in this notification.
4.4 Should possess relevant Educational and other Qualifications indicated below as at the closing date of applications.
Department Designation Educational and other Qualifications
1. Department of National 1. Assistant Director
Zoological Gardens
2. Department of Government Analyst 2. Assistant Government
Analyst
3. Department of Irrigation 3. Assistant Soil Chemist
4. Department of Wildlife Conservation 4. Assistant Director
5. Department of Labour 5. Research Officer
6. Department of Sri Lanka Railways 6. Chemist & Metallurgist
(a) should have obtained a BSc. (Honors) Degree in
Zoology from a recognized University ; or
(b) B.Sc Degree with a 1st or 2nd Class offering
Chemistry, Zoology and Botany as subjects, from a
recognized University
(a) B.Sc. (Special) Degree in Chemistry with a 1st and
2nd Class ; or
(b) B.Sc. (Special) Degree in Chemistry from a
recognized University with either a M.Sc. or Ph D.
in Chemistry from a recognized University
(c) A basic Degree from a recognized University with
Chemistry as a subject and either a M.Sc or a Ph D.
in Chemistry from a recognized University
(a) B.Sc. (Special) Degree in either Science or Agriculture
with Chemistry or Agro-Chemistry as either the
main subject or the subsidiary subject, from a
recognized University ; or
(b) B. Sc. Degree with a 1st or a 2nd Class with
Chemistry or Agro -science as a subject
(a) B. Sc. (Special) Degree in Bio Science or Botany; or
(b) B. Sc. (Special) Degree in Zoology with either
Botany or Zoology as the additional subject from a
recognized university ; or
(c) B. Sc. (General) Degree with 1st or 2nd Class
including any two of the following subjects viz.
Zoology, Botary or Bio Science ; or
(d) A Post-graduate Degree on either Wildlife
Conservation or Wildlife Management or Forestry
or Environmental Conservation ; or
(e) B. Sc. (Special) Degree in Chemistry with either
Botany or Bio-Science as an additional subject  ; or
(f) B. Sc. (Special) Degree in Plant Sciences, Agri-sciences,
Environmental Science, Natural Resources ; or
(g) B. Sc. (Special) Degree with equivalent subjects
approved by the University Grants Commission in
addition to the subjects mentioned above.
(a) B. Sc. (Special) Degree with 1st or 2nd Class in
Chemistry from a recognized university ; or
(b) Membership of the Sri Lanka Institute for Chemistry
or the Royal Institute for Chemistry of Great Britain
or Ireland ; or
(c) A Post-graduate Degree in either Chemistry,
Industrial Toxicology, Industrial Hygiene or Applied
Chemistry pertaining to Environmental Pollution.
(a) B. Sc. (Special) Degree in Chemistry with either
Physical Science or Pure Mathematics as the
additional subject (Preference will be given to those
who have followed Physical Science) from a
recognized university ; or

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2009
1274
7. Department of Export Agriculture 7. Assistant Director
8. Research Officer
8. Department of Forest Conservation 9. Assistant Conservator
of Forests
9. Department of Measurements 10. Assistant Director
Units Standards of Services
10. Department of Meteorology 11. Meteorologist
Department Designation Educational and other Qualifications
(b) Degree/Chartered Membership of Sri Lanka Institute
of Chemistry or any institution with equivalent
recognition ; or
(c) Post-graduate qualification  in either Analytical
Chemistry or Metallurgy or Petroleum Chemistry
or Rubber Technology from a recognized university.
(a) B. Sc. Degree in Agriculture from a recognized
university ; or
(b) Post - graduate Degree in Agriculture ; or
B. Sc. Degree with a 1st or 2nd Class in Botany or
Chemistry from a recognized University offering one
of the following subjects viz. Botany, Chemistry,
Zoology, Economics, Mathematics, Biometry or Bio
Chemistry as Subsidiary subject.
(a) B. Sc. Degree in Agriculture from a recognized
university ; or
(b) One of the following Degrees from a recognized
university
(i) Botany, offering Chemistry or Zoology as a
subsidiary subject from a recognized
university ; or
(ii) Special Degree with Mathematics as the main
subjects and offering Botany, Zoology,
Chemistry or Physics as a subsidiary subject ;
or
(iii) Special Degree with Chemistry as the main
subjects offering Botany or Zoology as a
subsidiary subject from a recognized
university ; or
(iv) Post - Graduate Degree relevant to Agriculture
from a recognized university ; or
(v) General Degree with Mathematics and Bio-
Science as subjects
(a) B. Sc. Degree with a 1st or 2nd Class from a recognized
university offering either ; Botany, with Zoology or
Chemistry as an additional subject ; or
Zoology, with Botany as an additional Subjects ; or
(b) B. Sc. Degree in Bio -Science with a 1st or 2nd Class
from a recognized university ; or
(c) B. Sc. (Honors) Degree in Agriculture with a 1st or a
2nd Class from recognized university ; or
(d) B. Sc. Degree in Forestry with a 1st or 2nd Class
from a recognized university
(e) Post-graduate Degree in Forestry
(a) B. Sc. (Special) Degree in Physics from a recognized
university
(a) B. Sc. (Special) Degree in Physics or Mathematics
from a recognized university ; or
(b) B. Sc. Degree with 1st or 2nd Class offering Physics
and Mathematics as subjects from a recognized
university  ; or

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2009
1275
Note :
(1) A candidate is regarded to have possessed the required  basic qualifications for appointment to the Sri Lanka Scientific
Service, only if official certificates in respect of the qualifications or an official documents acceptable to the Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs in lieu of such certificate, have been produced at the interview.
Accordingly, candidate should have completed requisite qualifications for the post, on or before the closing date.
05. Candidates will be required to submit the following documents whenever requested :
(a) Certificate of Birth, (Note : Baptismal Certificate on the Certificate of Birth issued for the purpose of assisted school will
not be accepted.),
(b) Degree certificate and the highest educational certificate obtained,
(c) Two character certificates (One of them should be from the Director of the Academic Institute/Lecturer or the Professor
of the University),
(d) Certificates in relations to the professional experience or technical qualifications,
(e) Certificate on highest examination passed in Sinhala/Tamil or English.
06. (i) Application should be prepared in such a way that Nos. 1.0 to 6.0 appear on the 1st page, Nos. 7.0 to 11.0 on the 2nd
page and the remaining number on the 3rd page and should be filled clearly by the candidate's own handwriting.
Applications that do not comply with the specimen for of application and that have not been perfected properly will
be rejected without notice. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the application with the candidate. It is the responsibility
of the candidate to make sure that the application complies with the specimen as otherwise it may be rejected. It is
required to indicate the name of the examination in English also in the application prepared both in Sinhala and Tamil
mediums.
(ii) A notification will be published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are issued to the candidates. Steps should
be taken to notify the Department of Examinations if the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such
advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the Department of Examinations,
i. e. certified photocopies of the application form and the receipt kept at your possession, receipt of registration and in
case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the admission card should be
sent.
07. Examination Fee : The fee for the examination is Rs. 300 and it should be paid to any Divisional Secretary's Office to be
credited to Revenue Head 4000-20-03-20-13 before the closing date of applications, Receipt obtained from the Divisional Secreta riat
should be pasted in the relevant cage of the application. The fee will not be refunded. It would be useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt
with the candidate. The examination will be held in Colombo.
08. Attention is drawn to the general conditions applicable for the appointments to the posts in Public Service published at th e
beginning of Part I Section (IIA) of the Gazette Notification.
(c) Ph. D. or MSc. /M. Phil Degree on Meteorology or Physics
from a recognized university
Note :
(i) Officers of Sri Lanka Technological Service who have
completed as satisfactory service period of 10 years in
the Department of Meteorology and possess a B. Sc.
Degree with Physics and Mathematics as subjects from
a recognized university are also eligible to apply for
this post.
(ii) If the candidate has obtained B. Sc. (Special) Degree in
Mathematics, he/she should have passed in Physics at
the General Aptitude Test in Science
Department Designation Educational and other Qualifications

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2009
1276
09. Officers in the Public Service should forward their applications through the respective Heads of Department.
10. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue admission cards to all persons whose applications have been
received. A Candidate sitting himself for the examination must get his/her signature on the admission card attested in advance as required
and produce it to the supervisor of the examination center. A candidate who fails to produce his admission card will not be per mitted to
sit the examination.
A set rules and regulations to be observed by all candidates is published in this Gazette.
Note : The issue of an admission card to a candidate should not be treated as a proof that he or she has fulfilled the requisite
qualifications to sit the examination.
11. Identification of Candidate  : A candidate will be required to prove his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of
the supervisor for each subject he offers, for this purpose, any of the following documents will be accepted :–
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons ;
(b) A Valid passport
12. Penalty of Furnishing false information : If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any
stage prior or during or after the examination. If any of the particulars furnished by  a candidate is found to be false within his knowledge,
or if he has willfully suppressed any material fact, he will be liable to be dismissed from the Public Service.
13. Any matter  not provided for in these regulations will be dealt with as determined by the Secretary, Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs subject to instructions issued by the Public Service Commission.
14. Scheme of Examination  : Language Medium of Examination : (it will not be allowed to change the language medium of
examination subsequently)
(a) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English ;
(b) A candidate should sit the examination in the language in which he passed the qualifying examination or in an official
language ;
(c) A candidate who has passed subjects at the qualifying examination in more than one language, should sit the examination
in the language in which he passed the majority of subjects at such examination or in an official language ;
(d) A candidate with a special degree who has passed the principal subject at one language and the subsidiary subject in
another language should sit the examination in the language in which he passed the principal subject or in an official
language.
Note :
(i) The term "qualifying examination" in (b) and (c) above refers to the examination in which the candidate obtained the
basic qualifications required ;
(ii) A candidate must sit all the papers of the examination in one and the same language ;
(iii) A candidate will not be permitted to change the language of examination or subjects or levels of subjects indicated in
the application ;
(iv) Candidates are subjected to the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on
conducting of this examination, Candidates are liable to be subjected to a punishment imposed by him for breach of
these rules.
15. Method of Recruitment :
(i) Recruitment to the Posts of Assistant Director in Department of National Zoological Gardens, Assistant Soil
Chemist in the Department of Irrigation, Research Officer in the Department of Labour and Meteorologist in the
Department of Meteorology will  be made on the order of merit of results obtained by the candidates at the written
examination held by the Commissioner General of Examinations on behalf and as determined by Secretary, Ministry
of Pubic Administration and Home Affairs. Eligibility of candidates shall be verified by an interview board approved
by the Public Service Commission.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2009
1277
(ii) Recruitments to the Post of Assistant Government Analyst at Department of Government Analyst, Post of Chemist
and Metallurgist at Department of Railways and Posts of Assistant Director and Research Officer at Department of
Export Agriculture shall be made by the Public Service Commission based on the results of a Written Examination held
in the manner mentioned above and on the order of merit of results scored by candidates at the structured interview
conducted by a board approved by Public Service Commission.
(a) Intelligence Test : 100 Marks - Duration - 1 hour
(b) General Paper : 100 Marks - Duration - 3 hours
16. Syllabus :
Intelligence Test : This is designed to make an assessment of the candidate's power of logical reasoning and analysis and ability
to draw sound inferences. The question paper will be of the multiple -choice type with duration of 01 hour.
General Paper : This consists of two parts –
Part I - Consists of structured questions regarding broad scientific matters covering all subjects
Pat II - Consists of structured questions on general matters such as Economic, Political, and Arts etc.
17. Number of appointments to be made and the effective dates of appointment will be decided by the Public Service
Commission. The Public Service Commission has the authority to decide on the number of vacancies to be filled or to refrain from filling
any vacancy.
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Gazette Notification the Sinhala text
shall prevail
On the order of the Public Service Commission.
D. D
ISSANAYAKE,
Secretary.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 7,
7th July, 2009.
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Class II Grade II of the
Sri Lanka Scientific Service - 2007 (2009)
Index No. :
(For office use only)
Language Medium of Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
The Post applying for :
Department Post Number
01. Name of Applicant :
1.01 Name with initials at the end  (in English Block Capitals) :———.
1.02 Name in full (in Sinhala/Tamil) :———.
1.03 Full name (in English Block Capitals) :———.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2009
1278
02. Address :
2.01 Address to which the admission card should be sent (in English) :———.
2.02 Office Address (in Sinhala/Tamil) :———.
03. Gender :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
04. National Identity Card Number :
05. Age :
5.01 Date of Birth :
Year :———. Month  :———.Date  :———.
5.02 Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years  :———. Months  :———. Days  :———.
06. Civil Status  :
Married - 1
Single - 2
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
7. Qualifications :
7.01 Educational Qualifications  : :———.
Indicate all examination passed/degrees obtained including Class, subjects and Institutions/Universities
Examination/Degree Class Y ear Subjects University/Institution
7.02 Professional Qualifications :––––––––.
08. The highest examination passed  :
1. Sinhala :––––––––.
2. Tamil :––––––––.
3. English :––––––––.
09. Particulars of employment and/or training since leaving school (date of engagement and date of leaving and reasons for the same should
be indicated) :––––––––.
10. Particulars of the present post held :
(a) Post :———.
(b) Department/Institution :———.
(c) Date of appointment :———.
(d) Whether permanent/pensionable/non pensionable/temporary :———.
(e) Whether confirmed in the post  :———.
(f) Salary Scale of the post and the present salary :———.
11. Have you ever been convicted in a court of law for a criminal offence ? if so, furnish particulars of such conviction and penalty imposed
:––––––––.
13. Please paste the receipt properly (it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with you)
Receipt No.  :———.
Office to which the fee was paid :———.
Date :———.
I hereby certify that the particulars given by me in the application are true and correct, I am also aware that if any particul ar
contained herein is found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification if detected before selection and to dismiss al without

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2009
1279
compensation, if detected after appointment and furthermore, I hereby state that I am bound by all rules and regulations of thi s
Examination imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
 –––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :———.
REPORT OF THE HEAD OF DEPARTMENT IF THE APPLICANT IS IN THE PUBLIC SERVICE
I certify that the particulars given in paragraph 12 above are correct/need amendment as shown below and His/Her work and
conduct ............... He/She Can/Cannot be released from the present post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department.
Designation :———.
Date :———.
08-557
–––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS'  SERVICE  TO  CLASS  I  –  2009
Examination for Promotion of Officers in Class II
IT is hereby notified that the qualifying Examination for Promotion of Officers in Class II of Public Management Assistants' Se rvice to
Class I will be held in the three languages, i. e. Sinhala, Tamil and English, by the Commissioner General of Examinations in December,
2009.
2. Examination for Promotion of Officers in Class II of Public Management Assistants' Service to Class I will be held at the
Centers in Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullativu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, Anuradhapura, Badulla ,
Ratnapura and Killinochchi. The towns and their numbers are given below :
Town Town Number
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
Trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
Anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
Any center without a sufficient number of candidates will be cancelled. It will not be allowed to change the "town" indicated in
the application form subsequently.
3. (i) This examination will be held by the Commissioner General of Examinations and candidates are bound by the rules and
regulations stipulated by him in respect of holding this examination. Issuance of an admission card to a candidate should
not be regarded as an acceptance of his/her eligibility to sit the examination.
(ii) A set of rules and regulations for the candidates is published separately in the Gazette Notification. Any candidate who
violates these rules and regulations will be liable to a punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2009
1280
4. Candidates are required to satisfy following qualifications to sit the examination :
(i) Should be an officer who has completed an active service of ten years (10) in Class II of Public Management Assistants'
Service and a satisfactory service of five (05) years as at the closing date of applications.
(ii) Should have passed the efficiency bar examination held for officers in Class II of Public Management Assistants'
Service.
Note : The date of examination will be reckoned as the date on which the successful candidates qualify for promotion to Class
I of the service. However, any candidate who passes the examination without possessing above qualifications will be
treated as ineligible for promotion to Class I.
5. Scheme of Examination.– Candidates should sit a written examination consisting of the following subjects :
Subject Marks Duration
(i) Establishments Procedure 100 1 1/2 hours
(ii) Public Finance Management 100 1 1/2 hours
(iii) Case Study 100 1 hour
(iv) General Paper
100 1 hour
Total 400
Establishment Procedure .– A practical knowledge on matters contained in V olume I and II of the Establishments Code is
expected of the candidate. This paper consists of two parts.
Part I - 08 questions that require short answers (25 marks)
Part II - Answers should be supplied to 03 out of 04 semi-structured type questions. (75 marks)
Public Finance Management. – The objective of this paper is to test the following. It consists of two parts.
(a) Practical knowledge on financial regulations ;
(b) Basic knowledge on auditing ;
(c) Basic bank practice ;
(d) Basic knowledge on store keeping.
Part I - 08 questions that require short answers (25 marks)
Part II - Answers should be supplied to 03 out of 04 semi-structure type questions. (75 marks).
Case Study.– Candidates are required to answer a multiple choice/semi-structure essay type paper designed to analyze measures
to be taken to a problem relating to office administration. Cases for study will be provided and the questions to be
answered will be as follows :
Part I - 05 multiple choice type questions (05 marks)
Part II - 05 questions that require short answers (05 marks)
Part III - 05 semi-structured type questions (90 marks)
General Paper.– The objective of this paper is to test the General knowledge of the candidates on current affairs, both local and
international. The paper consists of three parts.
Part I - 32 multiple choice type questions (16 marks)
Part II - Short notes should be provided under two topics out of the four (04) given. (36 marks)
Part III - Answers should be provided for 02 essay type questions out of the four (04) given (48 marks)
Note.– (i) Candidates should answer these papers in the language medium of entry tot he service or any other official language.
(ii) Candidate should score a minimum of 40 percent (40%) of marks in each subject and an aggregate of 160 or more to
pass the examination.
6. Commissioner General of Examinations will issue results of the examination to the Director General of Combined Services
and the names of successful candidates will be published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
7. Applications should be in the form of the specimen appended to this ntoification and should be prepared by the candidate
him/herself. Application prepared thus by the candidiate should be sent through the respective head of Department by registered  post to

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2009
1281
the Commissioner General of Examinations, Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch, Sri Lanka Examinations Department,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla, so as to reach him on or before 28th September, 2009. A certificate to prove the satisfactory service of the officer
should be sent along with the application. The respective Head of Department should satisfy him/herself that the application ha s been
perfected accurately and the service certificate has been duly signed by him/herself. The top-left corner of the envelope conta ining the
application should clearly bear the name of the examination. Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
8. Identification of Candidates.– Candidates are required to prove their identity in the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they appear. For this purpose, any one of the following documents should be submitted to the superv isor.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(ii) A valid Passport.
Candidature of any candidate who fails to submit any one of the above, can be cancelled by the Commissioner General of
Examinations, at his discretion.
9. Applications.– Application form should be prepared on a paper of A4 size in such a way that numbers 1.1 up to 1.9 appear
on the first page. Application form may be twypewritten but should be filled clearly and legibly by the candidate himself in hi s own
handwriting. It is compulsory to indicate the title of the examination appearing the specimen in English language, too, on both Sinhala and
Tamil application forms.
Applications that do not comply with the specimen and that have not been perfected properly will be rejected without notice.
It is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the application form perfected by him/herself complies with the specimen given
in the examination notice and further it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed application form.
Candidates who are sitting this examination for the first time need not to pay examination fees. However, at consequent sittings,
candidates are required to paste stamps to the value of Rs. 90 on the application for each sitting and to cancel them duly by p lacing
signature and date. Under no circumstances, this fee will be refunded or transferred in respect of another examination.
The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue copies of the time table and admission cards to all candidates who have
sent in duly completed applications before the closing date of applications. Candidates should get their signature on the admis sion card
attested in advance and surrender to the supervisor of the examination hall. Candidates without admission cards will not be per mitted to
sit for the examination. A notification will be published in newspapers by the Department of Examinations as soon as the admission cards
are issued to candidates. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify
the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in han d at the
time of calling the Department of Examinations : i. e. receipt of registration and in case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of request,
furnishing a fax number to which the admission card should be sent.
10. Heads of Departments should grant duty leave to candidates to whom admission cards have been issued by the Commissioner
General of Examinations enabling them to present themselves at the examination. Traveling expenses will not be paid in this res pect.
11. For the purpose of the official langauges policy, all the candidates are required to prepare and perfect their own applications
in the official language.
12. The decision of the Director General of Combined Services will be final in respect of any matter not provided for in this
examination notice.
B. P. P. S. ABEYGUNARA THNE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
12th August, 2009.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2009
1282
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
EXAMINATION FOR PROMOTION OF OFFICERS IN CLASS II OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS' SERVICE TO CLASS I - 2009
(For Office use only)
Language Medium of examination : T own Town No.
Sinhala - 1 (Indicate the relevant number in (Indicate the town and the corresponding No. in
Tamil - 2 the cage. It will not be allowed to change this which you intend to sit the examination, as per
English - 3 subsequently) Para 2.0 of the gazette notification)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss. :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals) eg. SUNIL, A. B.
1.2 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 Names denoted by initials :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
1.4 Names denoted by initials :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.5 Have you changed your name after entering the Public Service ? If so, indicate the previous name :–––––––––––.
1.6 Place of work and Address :–––––––––––.
1.6.1 Name and the address of Office/Department/Institution :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
1.6.2 Name and the address of Office/Department/Institute :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.7 Sex : Female - 01, Male - 0 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.8 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
1.9 National Identity Card No. :
2.0 Present Post :
2.1 Post :–––––––––––.
2.2 Number and the date of the Appointment Letter :–––––––––––.
2.3 Date of entry to class II of above service : Year : Month : Date :
2.4 Have you earned all increments during the period of your service ? If not, give particulars :–––––––––––.
2.5 If you have suffered any punishment whatsoever state particulars in brief :–––––––––––.
2.6 If you have been released for service in a corporation or any Statutory Board, furnish such particulars :–––––––––––.
2.7 If you have availed yourself of no pay leave for employment abroad or any other purpose, furnish such particulars :–––––.
3.0 3.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :–––––––––––.
3.2 If not, value of the stamps (affixed) :–––––––––––.
3.3 Stamp Cage :
If you are not sitting the examination for the first time, affix stamps to the value Rs. 90

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2009
1283
4.0 Declaration of candidate :
I  do hereby declare that –
(i) The above particulars furnished by me are true and correct to my knowledge and faith and,
(ii) I am an officer in class II of Public Management Assistants' Service and I have been appointed to class II of Public Management
Assistants' Service on ............ and,
(iii) I have completed a 10 years active period of service as at 28th September, 2009 and 5 years satisfactory period of the service
on that date and,
(iv) I am sitting the examination for the first time/stamps to the prescribed value have been affixed.
I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false and incorrect, I am liable to disciplinary actio n
taken against me. I agree to abide by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on
conducting of this examination.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the candidate.
(See the footnote)
Date :–––––––––––.
Note.– 1. Period of service in class II/IIA of General Clerical Service or its parallel services before absorption to the Public
Management Assistants' Service should be taken into account when computing the period of service in class II of Public
Management Assistants' Service.
2. The applicant should place his/her signature in the presence of the relevant Head of Department or an officer authorized
to do so on behalf of him.
ATTESTATION OF THE SIGNATURE
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss........................... who serves at my office is personally knwon to me and that he/sh e signed
in my presence on .....................
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the person attesting.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
C
ERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I certify that –
(i) Mr./Mrs./Miss.............................. has completed a 10 years period in class II of Public Management Assistants' Ser vice
as at ................. 2009 and,
He/she is eligible to sit the examination as per the notification published in the Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka dated ....................
(ii) Number of the appointment letter of class II is ............... (Indicate number of the appointment letter) as per his/her
personal file and,
(iii) The particulars furnished by him/her in chapters 1.0 to 4.0 above, have been checked and found to be correct and,
(iv) He/she is sitting the examination for the first time/prescribed stamps for the relevant examination have been affixed.
(Delete words inapplicable)
––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department and official frank.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
08–687
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.