

<!-- page 1 -->

NA VODAYA FOUNDATION
 (INCORPORATION)
ACT,  No.  16  OF  1999
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
[Certified on 21st June, 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 25, 1999.
PRINTED  A T  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICA TIONS  BUREAU, COLOMBO 1
Price : Rs. 5.75 Postage : Rs. 3.50
(Internet Version)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Navodaya Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 16 of 1999
[Certified on 21 st June, 1999]
L.D.– O.23/97.
A N  ACT   TO   INCORPORATE  THE   NA VODAYA  FOUNDATION
WHEREAS  a Society called and known as the “Navodaya
Foundation” has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for the
purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting all objects
and matters connceted with the said Foundation according to
the rules agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application:
BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-
1. This Act may be cited as the Navodaya Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 16 of 1999.
2. From and after the date of  commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as presently are members of the
Navodaya Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted members of the
Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual
succession under the name and style of the “Navodaya
Foundation”, and by that name may sue, and be sued in all
courts with full power and authority to have, and use, a
common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be-
(a) to foster and promote the social, educational and
cultural development of under privileged children;
General objects
of the
Corporation
Preamble.
Short title
Incorporation of
the Navodaya
Foundation
H - 022545

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Navodaya Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 16 of 1999
(b) to assist and promote activities relating to child
education, preschools, child care centres and
children’s homes;
(c) to promote sports activities and to organize sports
camps with a view to improving the mental and
physical health of the people;
(d) to create employment and self-employment
opportunities and to plan and implement projects to
enhance the earnings of low income groups;
(e) to conserve the environment;
(f)to organize programmes to assist youth to develop
self reliance and leadership qualities;
(g) to conduct courses of study for youth:
(h) to hold exhibitions and to organise lectures, seminars,
workshops, conferences and tours with a view to
promoting cultural values;
(i) to organize programmes to provide maternity and
child welfare services and to provide anti-natal and
post-natal care, nutrition and medical facilities;
(j)to organize and hold health centres, mobile clinics
and health education programmes;
(k) to organize Sramadana and Saukyadana compaigns;
(l) to collaborate with any other institution or
organization in Sri Lanka or abroad having objects
similar to those of the Corporation and to exchange
views and programmes with them ;
(m) to establish and maintain lioraries, to subscribe for
and issue books, journals, souvenirs and
periodicals; and
(n) to take all other steps as are necessary or desirable
for the promotion of the above mentioned objects.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Navodaya Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 16 of 1999
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them, including the power to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise money, with or without security,
to receive or collect grants and donations, to invest its funds
and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
5.  (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rules of the Corporation, be administered by an Executive
Committee consisting of the office-bearers and such number
of members as may be provided for in such rules and elected
in accordance therewith.
(2) The first Executive Committee of the Corporation
shall be the Executive Committee of the Foundation holding
office on the day preceding the date of commencement of this
Act.
6.   (1) It shall be lawful for the corporation, from time to time
at any general meeting of the Corporation and by a majority of
not less than two-thirds of the members present and voting to
make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or
any other written law, for the following matters-
(a) the admission, classification, or expulsion of
members;
(b) for the election of office bearers, the Executive
Committee and the conduct of the duties of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(c) for the procedure to be followed in the transaction of
business at meetings of the Corporation and the
Executive committee;
Powers of the
Corporation
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation
Rules of the
Corporation

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Navodaya Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 16 of 1999
(d) the administration and management of the property
of the corporation, the custody of its funds, and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts; and
(e) generally, for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the corporation may be amended,
altered, added to rescinded in like manner as a rule
may be made under subsection (1)
(3) The rules of the Foundation in force on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of
the Act shall, in so far is they are not inconsistent
with the provisions of this Act, or any other written
law, be deemed to be rules of the Corporation made
under this section.
7.  All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall
be paid and discharged by the Corporation, and all debts due
to, and subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to acquire
and hold any property, movable or immovable which may
become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift
testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act
with full power to sell, mortage, lease, exchange or otherwise
dispose of, the encumber or charge the same.
9.  The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of such number
of office bearers as may be provided for in the rules of the
Corporation who shall sign their names to the instrument in
token of their presence, and such signing shall be independent
of the signing of any person as a witness.
Debts due by and
payable
to the
Foundation.
Corporation, may
hold property
movable and
immovable.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Navodaya Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 16 of 1999
10.  Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or  affect,
the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate
or any other persons except such as are mentioned in this
Act, and those claiming by, from, or under, them.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 7 -->

Annual subscription of  English Bills and Acts of sthe Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , No. 32,TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.