

<!-- page 1 -->

YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
   
 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... —
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... 
Land Redemption Notices ... ––
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... ––
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ...  388 
 
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
 wxl 2"406 - 2024 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 11 jeks isl=rdod - 2024'10'11              
 No. 2,406 - FRIDAy , OCtObER  11, 2024
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                
ImPoRTAnT   noTIce  ReGARDInG   AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS  
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekL y  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtION  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.   
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  01st  November, 2024 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 18th October,  2024.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the 
Gazette.”  
 Gangani Liyanage,  
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2024.
 this Gazette can  be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
387 - b 82617 - 333 (10/2024)
Page Page


<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'10'11
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka – 11.10.2024
388
miscellaneous Lands notices
LAnD  commISSIoneR  GeneRAL’S  
DePARTmenT
Ref. No. of Land Commissioner General : 4/10/74275.
Ref. No. of  Provincial Land Commissioner : NCP/PLC/L5/
Mt/04/Long term.
Notification under State Land Regulation                   
no. 21 (2)
IT is hereby noticed that Mrs. Disanayaka Mudiyanselage 
Shyamika Udayangani Disanayaka has requested the state 
land allotment in extent of 09 Acres 6.9 Perches depicted 
as Lot No. A in the tracing No. 2020/57 and situated in the 
Village of Kannattiya in No. 575, Kannattiya Grama Niladhari 
Division which belongs to Mihintale Divisional Secretary's 
Division in the Anuradhapura District on lease for Agricultural 
Purposes.
02. the boundaries of the land requested are given below :
On the North by   : Land of Kamal Piyantha;
On the East by   : Land of Ajantha Kodippili Arachchi 
and Upeksha;
On the South by  : State land;
On the West by   : Land of W. M. Wijesooriya.
03. the requested land can be granted lease  Road for the 
necessary purpose. therefore, the Government has 
intended to lease out the land subject to other Government 
Approved Conditions and the following conditions  :
(a) Term of lease : thirty (30) years (from 28.05.2024 to 
27.05.2054).
  Annual amount of the lease : In the instances where 
the valuation of land in the year 2024 is less than 
Five Million Rupees (Rs. 5,000,000), 2% of the 
undeveloped Value of the land in the said year, as per 
the valuation of the Chief Valuer. In the instances where 
the valuation of land in the year 2024 is Five Million 
Rupees  (Rs. 5,000,000),  or more than Five Million 
Rupees (Rs. 5,000,000), 4% of the undeveloped Value 
of the land in the said year, as per the valuation of the 
Chief Valuer. this amount of the lease must be revised 
in every Five years and the revision shall be added a 
20% of the amount that just preceded.
  Premium : Not levied.
  (b) the lessees must, within a period of one year from 
the date of commencement of the lease, develop 
the said land to the satisfaction of the  Provincial 
Land Commissioner/ Deputy Land Commissioner/ 
Divisional Secretary;
 (c)   the lessees must not use the said land for any 
purpose whatsoever other than an Agricultural 
Purpose; 
 (d)  this lease shall also be subject to other special conditions 
imposed by the Provincial Land Commissioner/ 
Divisional Secretary and other institutes;
 (e) Existing/ constructed buildings must be maintained in 
a proper state of repair;
 (f) If the lessee fails to substantiate the purpose for which 
the land was obtained within the specified period of 
time, steps will be taken to cancel the agreement of 
lease;
  (g) No permission will be granted until expiry of 05 years 
from 28.05.2024 for any Sub-leasing or assigning;
  (h) Payment of the lease rental must be regularly made 
and if defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso 
facto lapse. In case of non-payment of lease, a penalty 
interest of 10% will be charged on the lease in arrears;
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within  
Six (06) weeks of  herein Gazette  publication to the effect that 
this land must not be given on lease, the land shall be leased 
out as requested. 
 
  
 S. V . A. D. Ishara M. Samarathunga, 
 Assistant Land Commissioner,
 for Land Commissioner General.
At the Land Commissioner General’s Department, 
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
“Mihikatha Medura”,
Rajamalwatta Road, battaramulla.
18
th  September, 2024.
10 - 92
PRINtED   At  thE  DEPARtMENt  OF  GOVERNMENt  PRINtING ,  SRI   LANKA .