

<!-- page 1 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2018
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) – PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
wxl 2097$2 – 2018 fkdjeïn¾ ui 12 jeks i÷od – 2018'11'12
No. 2097/2 – MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2018
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A – PG4309 – 12 (11/2018)
PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL   OF  CENTRAL   PROVINCE
Enactment bearing No. 3 of  2016 of  the Department of Cultural Affairs of
Provincial Council in Central Province
It is hereby published for the information of all the above enactment approved by Hon. Governor on 06.10.2018 and resolved
on 02.08.2017 by Central Province Provincial Council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
SARATH EKANAYAKE,
Chief Minister of Central Provincial Council and
Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order,
Local Government, Manpower, Education and Cultural Affairs,
Tourism, Land, Co-operative Development, Commerce and
Trade, Food Supply and Distribution Affairs and
Investment Co-ordianation.
Chief Minister’s Office,
Central Provincial Council,
Kandy.
08th October, 2018.

<!-- page 2 -->

2A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2018
ENACTMENT  OF  DEPARTMENT  OF  CULTURAL  AFFAIRS  BEARING  NO.  3  OF  2016  OF
PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  OF  CENTRAL  PROVINCE
Chief Ministry and Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Local Government, Manpower, Education and
Cultural Affairs, Tourism, Land, Co-operative Development, Trade and Commerce, Food Supply and
Distribution Affairs and Investment Co-ordianation and Ministry related with subjects which are not fallen
under other ministries.
Draft Enactment
No. 03 of 2016 of the Central Provincial Council
to Establish a Department of Cultural Affairs
An enactment to establish a Department for Cultural Affairs for the Central Province, to regulate art activities
including theatres, plays, provincial literary activities, music and entertainment activities except the approval
of cinema movies for exhibition and public performance, and to carryout researches and investigations on
ancient and historical monuments and records, their conservation and maintenance and to maintain, regulate
and enact necessary rules and regulations for the museums and other similar institutions governed and
funded by the Central Provincial Council, and to make rules and regulations on related and consequential
matters.
The Provincial Council of the Central Province of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
hereby enacts the following
This enactment is called as the enactment of Cultural Affairs No. 03 of 2016 of the Central Provincial Council
and shall become into effect from the date on which the Hon. Governor’s approval is granted.
Part  I
Establishment of the Department of Cultural
Affairs of the Central Province Provincial Council
1 A  Department for Cultural Affairs of the Central Province (herein after referred to as the department)
shall be established in order to carry out the objectives of this enactment.
2. (1) A Provincial Director shall be appointed to the department in order to execute the duties and
powers of the department.
(2) The Provincial Director shall be appointed by the Governor and he shall be the Head of the
Department.
3. Other officers and staff required to assist the Provincial Director to perform the duties and powers
of the department, shall be appointed as per the provisions of the Provincial Council Act No. 42
of 1987.
4. The powers and the duties of the Provincial Director can be trasferred to the officers who are
appointed under the above 03rd paragraph.
5. It is the duty of this department to achieve the following objectives:
(1) To regulate and standardize the theaters, performances, cinema hall shows and entertainment
activities within the province apart from the approval for cinema movies for exhibition and
public performence.
Short Name and
the effective
date.
Establishment of
the Department
of Cultural
Affairs of the
Central
Provincial
Council.
Appointing of
the Director of
Cultural Affairs.
Department
Staff.
Appointing
other officers for
the Department.
Transferring
power.
Objectives of the
Department.

<!-- page 3 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2018
3A
(2) To preserve and maintain ancient and historic monuments and reports except on those that
are declared as to have national importance, by or under a parliamentary act.
(3) To maintain and preserve the museums and similar institutions governed by the Provincial
Council.
(4) To regulate the literary, religious and other non institutional societies and organizations
which function within the province and activites related to art associations.
(5) To improve the creative skills of the artists in the fields of arts and literature within the
province and welfare activities of artists.
(6) To conduct researches and investigations regarding cultural and arts related affairs, artists
and related fields to conserve the visible and invisible cultural heritages of the central
province and to publich and preserve the information with regard to them.
(7) To promote religious, cultural, literary, arts, moral and spiritual values in the central province.
6. The Duties and the Powers of the Department shall be as follows:
(1) To form cultural groups in the province, to recruit artists, to pay them allowances and to get
the artists involved in arts programs and performances.
(2) To form, register, manage, monitor, audit and dissolve cultural groups.
(3) To register and monitor the arts associations.
(4) To establish, maintain and govern museums and other similar institutions funded by the
provincial council.
(5) To maintain the hygienc conditions of the theaters and the cinema halls which are located in
the central province and to inspect whether they suit for people and set standards for
matters with regard to them and conduct examinations.
(6) To plan, implement, assess and assist to cultural programs within the province.
(7) To establish and improve cultural committees and arts associations and take necessary
actions for their development.
(8) To obtain the required assistance and support of  the government, provincial councils,local
government institutions, other legal entities to perform the duties of the department and
maintain relationships with non governmental organizations.
(9) To plan, implement, maintain and facilitate the programs for the welfare of artists.
(10) To establish cultural villages in the province and plan programs to preserve the traditional
knowledge for future generations.
(11) To audit the financial and accounting reports submitted by the arts associations, regional
cultural committees and provincial cultural authority and take legal actions with regard to
financial irregularities.
Duties and
powers of the
Department.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2018
(12) ( a) To name the selected and identified sacred item, clothes, jewellery and artifacts of the
province as ‘‘The Provincial Cultural Heritages which shall be conserved’’.
(b) To assist to set standards to produce, sell and distribute the selected sacred item,
clothes, jewellery and artifacts which are named as ‘‘The Provincial Cultural Heritages
which shall be conserved’’.
(13) ( a) To enter
(b) To inspect and examine
(c) To Request to produce a license, pass, report, certificate or any other document
(d) To examine such license, pass, reports, certificate or any other document
(e) To take photo copies or extracts of necessary documents and information
(f) To inquire and investigate from the officers in charge or any other necessary persons.
(14) To fulfill the requiements which are thought to be needed to perform the mission of the this
Department such as the duties of the government, provincial councils, local government
institutions and departmental activities and to obtain the support of local, foreign and other
legal entities and to maintain a coordination with non-governmental organizations.
(15) To obtain the assistance of the police when required while performing the duties of  the
department.
Part II
Forming the Central Provincial Cultural Committee
7. (1) Cultural groups can be formed for the fields of traditional dancing, singing and music of the
province in order to promote and safeguard the provincial aesthetic arts and to improve the
economical standard of the artists. These groups shall operate under the supervision of the
provincial director.
(2) The provincial Director can make necessary provisions with the approval of the secretary to the
ministry regarding the recruitment of artists and advisors to cultural groups, deciding their
qualifications, disciplinary controls, supervision, payment of allowances and their removal.
(3) The cultural director has the power to guide the cultural groups towards the activities which are
necessary to achieve the objectives of the department.
Part III
Forming Regional Cultural Committees and Provincial Cultural Authority
8. (1) Regional cultural committees which will be referred herein after as ''committee'' shall be formed in
each Divisional Secretariat Division.
(a) The Artists, teachers and interested persons in arts related activities from the division can
obtain the membership of this regional cultural committee.
(b) A chairman, a secretary and a treasurer shall be selected from the members at a General
Meeting of the committee.
Forming the
cultural group.
Forming cultural
committees.

<!-- page 5 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2018
5A
(c) The Divisional Secretary of the relevant division will be the patron of the committee by virtue
of his post and the Cultural Officer shall act as the coordinator of the committee.
(2) The Tenure of the committee is one year.
9. (1) Every committee shall have a constitution with particulars regarding the composition of the
committee, its accounts, and other provisions necessary for the maintenance of the committee.
The general provisions to be included in the constitution can be imposed from time to time by the
Minister by regulations with the recommendation of the Provincial Director.
(2) The committees have the right to prepare their constitutions as per to their requirements and not
contradict to the above mentioned general provisions.
10. Powers of the Regional Cultural Committees are as follows:
(1) To prepare plans and implement them to promote religious, cultural, moral and spiritual values
which ensures the conservation of the visible and invisible heritages of the relevant divisional
secretariat division.
(2) To assist to implement the duties of the Provincial Cultural Department in regional level.
(3) To take actions to implement a program for the equal distribution of opportunities of welfare
programs and other different opportunities submitted from time to time by the Central Provincial
Council or by the Cultural Department of Central province for the benefit of the artists who reside
within the functional area of the committee.
(4) To enhance the quality of various art creations conducted in rural areas, to contribute to upgrade
the standards of rural artists and take actions to create a copetitive background to assess their
creations in government level.
(5) To build a platfrom for the opinions, proposals, ideas and contributions of artists representing
various fields and implement programs to ensure their identity.
(6) To implement a mechanism to perform innovative cultural and arts programs in rural and regional
levels.
(7) To create opportunities to spread the culture and arts creations of the committee’s territory to the
national and international levels and to create opportunities for the artists from the committee’s
territory to exchange the knowledge of different countries.
(8) To extend a helping hand to the ordinary level artists to publish their creations.
(9) To implement a sustainable program to strengthen the socio-economic conditions of the artists
residing in the committee’s territory.
(10) To implement programs to eradicate the socio environmental barriers to create a moral and diciplined
society.
(11) To  submit recommendations forwards to regional artists in the Central Province.
General
regulations which
shall be included
to the
constitution of
the cultural
committees.
Powers of the
regional cultual
committees

<!-- page 6 -->

6A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2018
(12) To or ganize regional arts festivals.
(13) To or ganize various programs through this committee to develop the arts academies in the region.
(14) To intervene in the welfare of the artists residing in the committee’s territory.
(15) To provide financial sponsorships for arts, cultural, historic and religious affairs of the region.
(16) To obtain the assistance required to the cultural events organized by the committee from the
government, provincial council, local government institutions, non governmental organizations
and other legal entities.
(17) To bear the expenses for the programs, exhibitions, concerts and sales of the committee members,
reimburse that amount and obtain a pre decided protion of such income as revenue.
(18) To engage in the coordination activities of programs aimed at preserving the visible cultural
heritages of the committee’s territory.
(19) To collect funds to maintain committee’s account.
11. Every Regional Cultural Committees shall maintain and account as per to the provisions provided
in the constitution of that committee.
12. A provincial cultural authority (hereinafter referred to as the authority) shall be established for
the province.
(1) One selected member from the office bearer of each regional cultural committee, such as chairman,
secretary or treasurer, can obtain the membership of the provincial cultural authority.
(2) A chairman, a secretary and a treasurer shall be selected at a general meeting from the members of
the provincial cultural authority.
(3) Provincial Director shall hold the post of patron of the provincial cultural authority and a cultural
officer shall act as the coordinator of the committee.
(4) The tenure of authority is one year.
13. Powers of the provincial cultural authority shall be as follows:
(1) To monitor the procedures undertaken by the regional cultural committees to preserve the invisible
heritages of the province.
(2) To intervene to develop the religious places situated in the province and monitor the development
activities carried out in regional level.
(3) To form and monitor a program for the equal distribution of opportunities of welfare programs and
other different opportunities submitted by the Central Provincial Council or by the Cultural
Department of Central Province from time to time for the benefit of the artists who reside in central
province.
(4) To enhance the quality of various art creations conducted in the province, to contribute to
upgrade the standards of artists and take actions to create a competitive background to assess
those creations.
Accounts of the
Regional Cultural
Committee.
Establishment of
Provincial
Cultural
Authority.
Powers of
Provincial
Cultural
Authority.

<!-- page 7 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2018
7A
(5) To build a platform for the opinions, proposals, ideas and contributions of artists representing
each and every field and implement programs to ensure their identity.
(6) To create a mechanism to perform innovative cultural and arts programs in rural and central
provincial levels.
(7) To create opportunities to spread the culture and arts creations of central province to the national
and international levels and to create opportunities for the artists fom central province to exchange
the knowledge of different countries.
(8) To extend a helping hand to the ordinary level artists to publish their creations and form a
sustainable program to strengthen the socio-economic conditions of the artists.
(9) To enhance the quality of various art creations conducted in rural level, to contribute to upgrde
the standards, of rural artists and take actions to create a competitive background to assess their
creation in government level.
(10) To create opportunities to spread the culture and arts creations of the territory of cetral province
to the national and international levels and to create opportunities for the artists from the territory
of central province to exchange the knowledge of different countries.
(11) To extend a helping hand to the ordinary level artists to publish their creations.
(12) To implement a sustainable program to strengthen the socio-economic conditions of the artists
who live in the territory of central province.
(13) To implement programs to eradicate the socio environmental barriers to create a moral and
disciplined society.
(14) To or ganize various programs in view of developing the artis academies in the territory of the
authority.
(15) To intervene in the welfare of the artists residing in the authority’s territory.
(16) To provide financial sponsorships for arts, cultural, historic and religious programs within the
authority’s territory.
(17) To obtain the assistance required to the cultural events organized by the authority from the
government, provincial council, local government institutions, non-governmental organizations
and other legal entities.
(18) To bear the expenses for the programs, exhibitions, concerts and sales of the members of the
authority, reimburse that amount and obtain a pre decided portion of such income as revenue.
(19) To intervene in the coordination activities of programs aimed at preserving the visible cultural
heritages of the authority's territory.
(20) To collect funds through various programs for the fund (the fund and the account) created for the
welfare of all artists.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2018
14. (1) The provincial authority shall have a constitution with particulars regarding the composition of
the authority, its  accounts and other provisions necessary for the maintenance of the authority.
The general provisions to be included in the constitution shall be imposed from time to time by
the secretary with the recommendation of the Provincial Director.
(2) The authority has the right to prepare its constitution as per to the requirements and not contradict
to the above mentioned general provisions.
15. The Provincial authority shall maintain an account as per the provisions of its constitution.
16. The authority and all regional committees shall register them under the provincial director.
17. Provisions needed for the registration mentioned in clause 16, shall be imposed by the minister in
charge of the subject by regulations.
Part  IV
Establishment of the Central Provincial Cultural Account
18. A separate account shall be maintained for cultural affairs under the central provincial council
fund. The funds of this account can be used for the purposes of the welfare of the artists, to
preserve folklore and folk arts, moral and spiritual development and to preserve the traditional
heritages.
19. Credit of the account are as follows:
(1) Provisions allocated by the provincial council.
(2) All local and foreign donations and financial assistances made to the department.
(3) All charges levied under this enactment.
(4) Revenue gained by the fund raising programs organized by the cultural department.
(5) Revenue gained through the cultural groups.
20. Funds shall be released by the provincial treasury after the submission of the estimate prepared
for the purpose of utilizing the funds of the account, signed by the Ministry's secretary to the
treasury.
21. All transactions including the revenue and expenditure of the account shall be audited annually
by the Auditor General. The report of these accounts shall be submitted to the provincial council-
for information-by the minister in charge for the subject after three months from the completion of
the financial year.
The minister in charge for the subject shall submit an annual report to the provincial council
within 03 months from the completion of the financial year.
Constitution of
the authority.
Account of the
authority.
Registration of
the authority and
the committees.
Establishment of
Central
Provincial
cultural Account.
Credits of the
account.
Paying money
from the cultural
account.
Auditing of the
account.

<!-- page 9 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2018
9A
Part  V
General  Provisions
22. (1) The Minister can give orders to implement and enforce the provisions of this enactment.
(2) (1) Minister can give orders on each of the following matters or regarding all matters in a manner
which won't affect the common state of the powers granted by the sub section (1).
(3) Matters required implementing the duties and powers of the department cultural groups, cultural
committees and central provincial cultural authority.
(4) Provisions regarding theatres, musical performances, shows at cinema halls, entertainment activities
and related matters except the approval of cinema movies for exhibition and public performance.
(5) Provisions to set the standards and related matters regarding the production, sale and distribution
of  ‘‘Atapirikara’’ and other sacred items, clothes, jewellery and artifacts of the province which are
identified as ‘‘The Provincial Cultural Heritages which shall be conserved’’.
(6) Provisions regarding traditional folk arts, traditional dances, songs, public performances and
related matters which are identified as ''The Provincial Cultural Heritages which shall be conserved''.
(7) All the orders made by the minister shall be published in the gazette and needed to be presented
to the provincial council and approved within three months of such publishing.
(8) All the orders rejected by the provincial council shall be repealed from the date of such rejection
in a manner which does not affect any activity executed under such order.
Part  VI
Offences  and  Penalties
23. (1) Atapirikara, Sacred items, clothes, jewellery and artifacts of the province which are named as ''The
Provincial Cultural Heritages which shall be conserved'' shall be produced, only in accordance
with the proper standards. If they are sold and distributed with the intention of earning profits, it
must  be done in accordance with the proper standards.
(2) Any person or an institution or a group of person who produce, sell and distribute ‘‘Atapirikara’’,
sacred items, clothes and jewellery and artifacts named as ‘‘The Provincial Cultural Heritages
which shall be conserved’’ and not in accordance with the proper standards, is committing an
offense under this enactment.
(3) Any person or an institution or a group of persons who commits and offense under sub-section
2, becomes an offender under this enactment and shall be subjected to a penalty of either a fine
not exceeding Rs. 25,000 or an imprisonment not exceeding two years or to both penalties including
the fine and the imprisonment, if found guilty after a short trial before a magistrate.
Orders imposed
by the Minister.
It is an offence
to produce goods
not in
accordance with
the standards.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2018
24. Any person who is violating any provision of this enactment or violating any regulation of an
order made under this enactment which is mentioned in sub sections 23 (1) and 23 (2), becomes an
offender under this enactment and shall be subjected to a penalty of either a fine not exceeding
Rs. 10,000 or an imprisonment not exceeding six months or to both penalties including the fine
and the imprisonment, if  found guilty after a short trial before a magistrate, in case that offence
being not considered for a special penalty under this enactment.
Part  VII
Interim  Provisions
25. The person who is serving as the Provincial Director of the Cultural Department of Central
Province from before to the effective date shall be considered as the director appointed under
section 03 of this enactment for the matters of this enactment, and the officers working in the
department from before the effective date shall be considered as the officers mentioned in the
above section 04 of this enactment.
26. All assets, responsibilities, liabilities, law suits, and all contracts and agreements with the
department of cultural affairs which functioned before the effective date, will be considered as the
assets, responsibilities, liabilities, law suits, and agreements of the department established under
this enactment.
27. In case another meaning needed with regard to the terms of this enactment, otherwise
The term ‘‘Visible cultural heritages’’ stand for all religious places, all places with cultural
importance, monuments, documents and items which could be conserved as ancient heritages.
The term ‘‘Invisible cultural heritages’’ stand for all religious and cultural festivals, fork lore,
traditonal tales, traditional arts, magic and white magic.
The term ‘‘Governor’’ stands for the Governor of the Central Province.
The term ‘‘Minister’’ stands for the Minister in charge of Cultural Affairs of the Central Province.
The term ‘‘Province’’ stand for the Central Province. The term ‘‘Provincial Council’’ stands for the
Central Provincial Council.
The term ‘‘Ministry’s Secretary’’ stand for the Secretary of the Ministry of Cultural Affairs of the
Central Province.
The term ‘‘Provincial Director’’ stand for the Director of the Department of cultural affairs of
Central Province.
The term ‘‘Provincial Cultural Officer’’ stands for the cultural officer of the central provincial
public service.
The term ‘‘Assets’’ stands for all the assets including the books, documents, cash in banks, cash
left in hand, furniture, buildings, lands, projects, all movable and immovable properties belonging
to the cultural fund, cultural committees and cultural authority.
The term ‘‘Recruitment procedure’’ stands for the recruitment procedure approved by the central
provincial governor.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 11 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2018
11A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
The term ‘‘Artist’’ stands for persons who are enagaged permanently in the fields of singing,
music, dancing, literature, art, sculpture, carving, drama, cinema by their natural interest or
traditionally or by acqiring educational qualifications in these fields, as well as persons who are
rendering or have rendered a service to the society in these fields.
The term ‘‘Cultural affairs’’ stands for the matters mentioned under sections 25.1, 25.2, 29.1 and 28
of the first list of the sub section 09 of the constitution of 1978.
28. The department shall be considered as an institution sub-listed for the bribery act as per to the
explanation to that act and the provisions of that act shall be interpreted accordingly.
29. All the office bearers and employees of the department shall be considered as state officers with
regard to the matters of criminal procedure.
30. If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil language versions of this enactment,
the Sinhala version shall considered effective.
11 - 1100
To be considered
as an institution
sub-listed under
the bribery Act.
Employees to be
considered as
state officers.